ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers and ministers, welcome! We continue the 23rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. The following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: mag. Melita Župevc, Janez Vasle and Roberto Battelli. We're moving on to one. AND 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is at the joint introduction of the supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and the supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014. The Government submitted the supplementary draft budgets for consideration to the National Assembly. To further explain both proposals, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister Janez Šuštersič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members, President and colleagues and colleague from the Government! Allow me to briefly present the updated draft budget in the introduction. This, however, is not very different from what we have proposed as the basic draft budgets for the next two years, so my initial presentation will not be significantly different, except in the sense that some of the things that were still potential when the draft budget was tabled, in particular the tax and pension reform changes, are now adopted and are no longer an assumption on which the budget is based, but are, in other words, a fact. The general logic of the draft budgets is to keep the commitment. We plan budgets by maintaining the commitment with them to bring the deficit in the coming year of the state budget below 3% of gross domestic product in order to achieve this objective. We have assessed that this objective remains important, despite the acute economic situation, in particular in order to demonstrate the credibility of the country outside and to avoid becoming involved in procedures where we would withdraw from these commitments. This objective is to be achieved through a combination of three measures. One is measures to reduce expenditure. Secondly, measures to increase the revenue of the budget and, most importantly, together then give us room for strong development incentives. Let me tell you something about this first. The budget proposal for next year foresees approximately 600 million more investment expenditure. To a large extent, these are investments that are linked or co-financed by European funds and programmes that can be co-financed by such funds. It is not just infrastructure, it is also environmental projects, education, social policy in one part or employment policy. In addition, there are investments financed directly from the budget. In particular, in the area of health, they will be more than this year, when we have largely stopped or slowed down these projects due to the adjustment of budget expenditure. It is also important that the draft budget takes into account the important tax incentives that have been adopted in recent months. It is the flat-rate taxation of small entrepreneurs, small businesses and people who carry out their own business. This is a reduction in the rate of corporate income tax. This year this rate is 18%, next year it will be 17%, in two years 16%. This is an unlimited investment relief and it is about increasing the facilitation of investment in R & D. Estimates of how much less revenue there will be in the budget are uncertain. One such working assessment, together, lowering rates and additional incentives for investment, speaks of about 200 million – this is reflected in the budget. What is important about this is that it is not 200 million that will blow up or not be in the budget, but it is 200 million that will remain in the economy, for those companies that invest in R & D, in investments, and who create profits, and therefore can enforce this relief or this reduced rate of profit tax. For those companies that are still living, not only living, but also expanding their investment activity, this money will remain and will be used there for economic development, not only for the investments of these companies, but also for the opening up of jobs that are always made possible by expanding economic activity. We also changed the income scale by moving the middle class, where the middle class limit begins, from 1.3 to 1.5 average wages. This is still low, but corresponds to at least approximately the average income of people with high education, so that a significant segment of the population is partially or to some extent taxly decommissioned and we give them additional incentives for activity. On the expense side. Yesterday's adopted pension reform, according to estimates made at the time of the drafting of the law, is expected to amount to approximately 150 million savings in the budget. We are counting on a reduction in the resources for the mass of wages and other labour costs, around 5%, slightly less, given what was adopted in this year's balance sheet. In addition, there will be a need to save what will be exceeded this year's balance because the measures were not as strong as we originally planned in the area of wage cuts this year in the public sector. This is a total of around 300 million financial impact. We reduce the consumption of municipalities by reducing the average and by reducing the specific transfer to the capital. In total, this is about 40 million positive effects on budget revenues or on lower expenditure. We are also continuing the overall cost-saving planning of the country's material costs and other current expenditure. There are also many measures on the revenue side that raise certain tax burdens. Their overall impact is around €300 million. Most of this, I think virtually everything, has already been adopted in the National Assembly. It is the introduction of a tax on financial services and the tightening of the parameters of the tax on the balance sheet sum of banks. This is about increasing certain environmental duties, including the burden of more powerful and more expensive motor vehicles, which is the form of a property tax, if we can call it that. We introduced a special CO2 tax in fuel. This is an increase in the level of concession paid from student work, which means 30 million additional assigned revenue for scholarships. This is a temporary introduction of a 50 % rate of income to increase the rate of tax paid on capital income from 20 % to 25 %. The same applies to new income from the lease. This is to tighten the anti-crisis real estate tax, where we lower the limit from 1 million to 500 thousand property values. This is a planned increase in excise duties announced by the introduction of sweet drinks taxation, replacing the withdrawal of the proposal to change tax rates to value added tax. It is also a matter of measures against the grey economy, where, in our opinion, the publication of taxpayers, which has already been legislated by amendments to the Tax Procedure Act, will play an important role. Let me get my numbers back. This is a combination of three types of measures – approximately 400 million savings in expenditure, about 300 million additional revenues with the measures I have counted. This, on the one hand, allows us to plan a deficit of 2.8% of gross domestic product while at the same time providing some 800 million incentives to the economy through investment projects, European co-financing and through the tax reliefs I have already mentioned. This is a budget that operates on all three sides, both on income and on expenditure, provides economic incentives and, in our view, it will not have a negative impact on economic growth, as we said this year when we adopt the balance that deficit reduction represents a short-term negative impact on economic growth. At the time, the assessment was about half a percentage point of gross domestic product growth. Finally, let me say something else about the obvious or the question whether such a budget is real or not. Let me say again about the starting point for this year. This year we will end up in the framework of the rebalancing proposed and in the framework of the deficit allowed by the Budget Implementation Act for this year, with the exception of those loans that have been made during the year for the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, which will increase the deficit in the financing account. However, this deficit has already been covered by a reduction in the state's assets in the accounts, as we have explained at this recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank of debt, which has already been made in previous years and has created reserves for this purpose. The pension reform, on which an important part of the measures on the expenditure side was based, was adopted yesterday in the National Assembly. According to the first statement, no referendum requirements are expected. Such impact assessments are always uncertain and, therefore, in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, we have provided for a reserve that, should there be a difference this year between the mandatory expenditure of the pension fund laid down by law and the revenue from contributions and the planned transfer from the state budget, this difference could be covered by an additional transfer from the capital company. This is a security measure, it is not a pre-determined decision as to what this transfer will be, but it is a possibility that this difference, if it occurs, will be covered by this source. At the same time, it is important to foresee in the Slovenian State Holding Act, if not elsewhere, and also in the Budget Implementation Act that part of the purchases from state assets - in that law was foreseen 10% - will be transferred to the Capital Strengthening Fund, which means again that this long-term reserve of the pension fund is not reduced in this way, except perhaps in the short term or in a temporary way. As regards estimates that plans to reduce public sector wages are unrealistic and that we have not been coordinated sufficiently, I would like to say in particular the following. Through several rounds of coordination of the government's budget, the government's search for ways of saving, has come to a conclusion or calculation as to how much of the funds for wages and other labour costs should be reduced in order to reach the budget within the set frameworks. In doing so, we had more limitations, not only this foreseen framework of the 3% deficit, but also other constraints. One of the constraints that was very important was that we did not want to propose tightening the measures already taken in the Public Finance Balance Act, so we did not propose further wage cuts, nominal wage cuts in the public sector or measures in some of the other areas in which we have already intervened with the Public Finance Balance Act this year. We also did not, as I said in the introductory presentation, want to impose additional taxes on economies in order to maintain too much employment in the public sector, in our view. This has led us to this number, which is a target number included in the draft budgets for the next two years. This is a goal set out in clear financial constraints. In order to achieve this goal of reducing wages, various measures are available, not just job redundancies or job withdrawals. Different adjustments are also possible. Given that the situations in different parts of the public sector are different, the Government has taken this action by asking the heads of the public sector to work on scenarios, calculations, which measures are possible to reduce wages, wages. It's about organisational action. All would like forgiveness, except where justified for any other reason, to be a last resort. However, in order to achieve this, it is necessary to make programmes, plans, reorganisations, different systems of evaluating what kind of work, what kind of jobs. We would like to see a dialogue with the unions about this, but the unions have decided to take a different approach. They want to negotiate first about how much the pay will go down and only then how. Our view is that this process should be reversed. First of all, what are the options if we decide to make these adjustments and if we all realize that these adjustments are necessary, what measures are available, where are we going with them? Only then is it possible to negotiate a difference that may remain. In addition, let me say that this figure, that the amount of wage and other labour costs should be reduced by 5%, in view of the balance that has been adopted, should not surprise anyone. This year, when we proposed the 2012 budget rebalancing, we initially proposed a reduction, a nominal reduction in public sector wages by 15%, with the possibility of eliminating imbalances, which would effectively mean a 10% reduction in nominal wages if such a proposal were adopted. Then we should not have to propose any additional adjustments for next year in terms of wages and other labour costs. As you know, such a baseline proposal has not been adopted. In order to be able to take or defend other important measures, it was necessary to agree with the unions. It is very important that this agreement also contained the fact that nothing is done this year in the field of education standards, which are very important restrictions on flexibility in adapting labour costs in this part of the public sector. Because of the lack of or acceptance of what the Government has proposed – a 10% nominal reduction in wages – in this area, and in the end, we have achieved between 3% and 4% reduction in salaries this year, there was no other choice for next year than to propose an additional step of adjustment that is not as strong as those 10%, but is still strong. At the same time, we have opened the way for adaptation not only by reducing the actual wages that people receive but also by other organisational measures in the field of other labour costs and also by reducing employment. Certain rules will therefore have to be amended. Normatives in education, which have not been negotiated seriously, are certainly one of the important things that will need to be changed in order to achieve these objectives. As far as I am concerned about pension reform and the mass of wages, the third question raised with regard to the reality of the draft budget is the economic situation. As you know, we have bad economic forecasts for both this year and next year. We have come from the latest predictions of Umar, which were made in September and are still valid. Even with the latest publication of data for the third quarter on gross domestic product in Slovenia, the death assessment was that this is in line with their forecasts and that we are not expecting any serious changes in these forecasts, so at least at this point we can say that the budget is based on real macroeconomic foundations. One last thing. As you probably know, the European Commission's assessment of the deficit under the European methodology is slightly higher than the 3% we are talking about under the European account system in Slovenia. However, there are differences that are understandable. On the one hand, it is a security reserve if perhaps all the measures announced by the Government would not be implemented and, on the other hand, a slightly greater impact, a greater assessment of the negative impact of the economic situation on income. Nevertheless, yesterday we had another such conversation in Brussels, including with the European Commission and ECOFIN. Nevertheless, the European Commission considers that the adjustment to the measures taken this year in the field of public finances proposed for next year is such that they are in line with expectations. It is about adjusting the structural deficit by about a percentage and a half of gross domestic product this year and next year. This is what's most important, this structural adjustment. Despite several different assessments, yesterday the European Commission made it clear that there is no reason at this point for Slovenia to require any additional measures in the field of public finances. What we are doing is assessed as being in line with the country's commitments in the grave and leading in the public financial field in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u3	The updated draft budget for 2013 and the updated draft budget for 2014 was treated as a parent working body by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, mag. To present the report to Andre Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! At its 39th urgent meeting, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as a working parent, considered the updated draft budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014 submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. The Committee held a joint debate on the 2013 and 2014 budgets. He voted on the amendments for each act individually. For the 2013 budget, 11 amendments were forwarded to the Committee, which were submitted to the Social Democrats and the Positive Slovenia Group within the deadline for the supplementary draft budget. The Committee also received a written opinion from the Council of Justice on the 2013 and 2014 draft budgets. In a joint introductory presentation of the 2013 and 2014 supplementary budget proposals, the Minister of Finance presented new developments in the supplementary drafts of the budget for the next two years. He drew attention to an increase of EUR 3 million in revenue on the basis of changes in the additional income. On the expenditure side, they will also increase by €8 million, mainly because the funds are foreseen for the six-year extension of the AUKN. The Government has also provided an additional 5 million to operate the courts. The Government aims to maintain the deficit as planned, i.e. 2.8% of the gross social product in 2013 and 2.5% of the gross social product in 2014. On the Committee, the representative of Umarja said that they did not foresee any major deviations from the autumn forecasts, which meant the continuation of the poor economic situation and the recurrence of the gross social product by 1.4 % in 2013 and the modest growth of the gross social product in 2014. In its opening remarks, union representatives on the Committee expressed doubts that the 2013 and 2014 budgets could be implemented in the field of salaries and other public sector costs. They also pointed out that the Government had not negotiated on these union proposals. They also pointed out a significant reduction in resources for education, science and culture and highlighted the issue of pre-school education. They proposed to suspend the decision on the two supplementary draft budgets. Trade union representatives also pointed out that it was necessary to find those responsible for such a poor situation in the country, stressing the need to find those responsible for providing bad credits. The representative of the Council of Justice initially said that the judiciary was aware of the state's situation, but felt that the judiciary could not tolerate such drastic measures to reduce funds. They therefore independently proposed their part of the budget. She also presented efforts to rationalise the work of the courts. She said that, on the basis of the negotiations, there were up to €5 million in additional funding for the courts, which she welcomed. In the joint debate on the supplementary budget proposals for the two years, some discussers from opposition parliamentary groups felt that the complementary draft budgets were unrealistic and poorly prepared. They drew attention to the excessive reduction in resources for research and development, education, culture, active employment policy and the municipalities. They also considered that there was a lack of emphasis on the revenue side and a lack of incentives for large investments. They expressed doubts about the government's budget deficit forecast. They estimated that this would be larger, with an estimated value of about 5.5 % to 6 % of the gross social product for 2013. They also considered the debt assessment to be unrealistic and would reach up to around 70% of the gross social product over the years. At the end, they proposed postponement of the decision on the proposed budgets. Controversies from coalition parties, on the contrary, considered the draft budgets to be optimal and realistic and acceptable in terms of the situation.It is important that Slovenia does not wait for decisions, since this time is no longer. This is the first draft of the new government's budgets and it is important to promote economic growth and competitiveness. Members considered both draft budgets to be too restrictive. Following a final discussion on the 2013 State budget proposal, the Committee identified the amendments to the Parliamentary Groups of the Social Democrats and the Positive Slovenia tabled in accordance with Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the context of the definition of individual amendments, the Committee did not support any of the amendments tabled to the 2013 supplementary draft budget. The Committee also identified up to ten amendments to the parliamentary groups of Social Democrats and Positive Slovenia following the closure of the discussion on the 2014 supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia. These were also submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Within the framework of the definition of individual amendments, the Committee did not support any of the amendments tabled to the 2014 supplementary draft budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u5	This is followed by a shift in the positions of the members of the groups. First, on behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Marija Plevčak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, and I'd like to say a very warm hello to all of you. As every year, we are looking ahead to the budget, one of the most important and fundamental acts for the functioning of the country. This act usually causes much bad will and headaches, anger, excitement, for it tells us which area of our lives will be most affected. Hand to heart, the draft budget usually clearly indicates where it will be saved and cut. Even in the 2013 and 2014 supplementary drafts of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, there is nothing different. We've been used to this since before. Thus, it is clear from both proposals that the tightening of the belt continues in all areas and that all of us, both the active population and pensioners, benefit from the savings. The pensioners are expected to feel this way by failing to reconcile their pensions at the level that has been the case in recent years or at all. There are also no investments envisaged, construction of new homes for old and other adaptations of infrastructure to the ageing Slovenian population. The active population, in particular public servants, will feel savings in terms of reducing the number of employees or lower wages, as the estimated wage for both years is about 10% lower compared to the realisation in 2012. We could still list the cases. The undeniable fact is that the 2013 and 2014 draft budgets of the Republic of Slovenia have been supplemented by significant cuts in all areas and allow for the adoption of different policy follow-up measures. The effects of these measures will be varied over the period when the budget itself will be deep in the implementation phase. The strategic objectives of working for Slovenia to continue to develop faster than the average of the European Union since 2013 in order to reduce the number of unemployed, to raise employment for the Lisbon objective, turn towards a negative direction, to increase unemployment. The economic and financial crisis has increased unemployment, household incomes have declined sharply, and the rate of poverty has also increased. The material condition of a large part of the population has deteriorated and more people are materially disadvantaged. The new legislation and austerity measures reduce social transfers, which is also reflected in both draft budgets. The fact is that the two supplementary draft budgets are based on certain legal bases that have not yet been or have not been fully harmonised and adopted, so there is a high likelihood in the near future that substantial additional revenue and expenditure adjustments, i.e. the rebalance. This is due to the effects that the proposed reforms will bring. The revenues in both proposals are too optimistic. In line with the agreement on the basic objective of ensuring a favourable environment for cultural growth and strengthening Slovenian and European identity, the lower rate of VAT for printing and the harmonisation of tax revenues were fortunately maintained. Fortunately, I have said that the country must act with discretion in the additional burden of the population in these times of crisis, not raise or introduce new taxes. In the DeSUS Group, we also assess that ambitious European revenue planning is not entirely realistic, since in the past the use of these funds in the Republic of Slovenia has not been successful enough. In doing so, I would like to draw attention to the failure of collection of taxes and contributions. There is something to talk about the expected tax revenues, and it is quite different to realize these revenues. To do this, you need to have an effective system, which we obviously do not have yet, so our share of the unpaid taxes is about 10% of the gross social product. For these purposes, Durs must be equipped with modern programming equipment for the ongoing collection and proper recording of citizens' obligations, thus affecting the real planning and implementation of the budget's expected revenues. In addition to the grey economy, Dursa’s great problem is also the recovery of the already imposed tax, and concrete and effective solutions should also be found in this area, which will result in no more taxpayers. This is what I think we have done in part by discussing lists that will, under certain conditions, show all debtors. That I will not only be negative, let me commend the fact that the 2013 budget for the Ministry of Health is increasing by 54.1 million euros, compared to this year. More resources than in 2012 are planned for secondary and tertiary protection and investment investments. There is also a higher budget for health care for unprotected and socially vulnerable people of approximately €2.6 million. Health policy follows the objective of regulating the country's healthcare system in the direction of balancing the social and economic development of the Republic of Slovenia. The activities are aimed at changing the healthcare system in a way that, despite widespread savings, retains a new level of health safety and ensures social justice, which we welcome in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. In 2013, activities will focus on increasing efficiency and effectiveness and improving the quality and safety of the entire healthcare system. Public health aims to prolong the health of the elderly and to reduce differences in geographical terms and in individual groups of citizens. At the primary, secondary and tertiary levels, better access to quality health services, the basic conditions for the suitability of premises and equipment will be ensured, which belongs to these services. The budget shall provide the required requirements for action in the event of natural disasters. Social health care is provided by the State through public funds for public health activities carried out by institutions and institutes. With both draft budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, the government has indicated strategically planned moves towards a way out of the crisis, which are most reflected in the cuts in social and pension resources, science and education. Education needs to be emphasized here, which is not a good indicator. Miracles and faster improvement after years of wrong decisions in this unstable international environment cannot be realistically expected. Therefore, the provision of solidarity, social security and compassionate care for the fellow human being and equal opportunities should be a priority for the country rightly expected by the citizens. Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia are aware of the importance of the early adoption of the two supplementary draft budgets of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Parliamentary Group, we know that if the adoption of both budget acts in the Republic of Slovenia were refused, there would be a situation that would prevent normal working conditions for the public sector, without wages, pensions, social transfers. In a word, the state would stop. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will, aware of the severe consequences of the possible decline in budgetary acts, support the two complementary draft budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, in the hope that these are the last so-called crisis budgets and that we will discuss more positive guidelines at their rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u7	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, Madam Minister, Madam Ministers, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors, I welcome you very much! In the introduction, several basic dimensions of the two completed draft budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014. With the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013, the revenues amount to €8,611 billion and €9,620 billion. The deficit will therefore be EUR 1,009 billion. In the 2014 updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia, revenue is projected at EUR 8,409 billion and expenditure at EUR 9,317 billion. The deficit will still be close to €0.908 billion. The budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014 and accompanying documents shall be adopted by the National Assembly in circumstances which are extremely difficult, more than ever after independence. Slovenia has become a country with the highest trend of public debt growth in Europe from a stable and growing country in recent crisis years, and the gains of fiscal expansion in the period 2009-2011 reflect the high price of missed opportunities. The real volume of gross domestic product in the country is now below the level from 5 years ago. After the gross domestic product per capita, expressed in purchasing power, we have lost almost a decade now at the level of 2003. The actual volume of investments fell even to a level from 13 years ago, to 1999. Employment in the country is at the level of 2005, which means we went back seven years. On the other hand, employment in the public sector with 160,000 employees is far the highest in our history. The deficit in the state sector remained high after a strong increase in the first crisis year 2009, as well as in the next two years, 2010 and 2011 and reached the highest level since 1995 last year. This is just a few facts that have put strong pressure on our public financial position to place more than 6% of the budget deficit in 2009, 2010 and 2011 in line with the increase in public debt in the amount of 21.9% of gross domestic product at the end of 2008 over the 50 % limit. In 2009 to 2011, we have doubled our public debt. More than €8 billion in 2009-2011 debt was ultimately reflected in one billion gross domestic product and close to 50,000 additional unemployed instead of higher economic growth, investment and development. Today it is not intended to answer the question where all this money went, but there will be plenty of opportunities for that. Slovenia has faced a crisis with some structural problems, as well as the highest level of economic development in its history and as the second least indebted member of the euro area. The gross domestic product per capita, expressed in purchasing power, reached 91 % of the European Union average in 2008. With the exception of Luxembourg, we were the only member of the European Monetary Union with a public debt of below 22% of gross domestic product. We also had the lowest number of unemployed in our history. We had a practically balanced state budget. However, Slovenia has also experienced a number of structural weaknesses. The extremely rigid regulation of the labour market, the high taxation of labour, the low flow of foreign direct investment, the closed economy, the low efficiency of tertiary education and investment in applied research and development, the inefficient management of state assets and some other problems arising from pre-crisis times have prompted the slow adjustment of our economy to completely new and difficult circumstances. Due to the unpreparedness of the Slovenian economy and the poor business environment, the Slovenian economy fell to the dramatic 20 cities on the competitiveness scale in 2010 and Slovenia won an infamous record among the countries observed this year. At this turbulent time, when we have to listen to the talk of at least a dignified part of the street, which is aimed at all three branches of state authority, including local authorities, I am disappointed to note that we are not able to come together for the interests of the state. The light exception was unanimously adopted yesterday as a pension reform. This raises the question of what is actually happening to us in Slovenia. It is true that in 21 years of our independence we have achieved something. It is true that Slovenia was very important at some point, a new star in the European sky, but we probably never answered the questions after 25 June 1991 where we came from, where we are and where we are going. I agree with the connoisseurs that in euphoria, we have simply painted our own independent state's facade, replaced the flowers on the window shelves, but we have not ventilated the house and thoroughly rearranged its interior. That's why it's not functional today, it's outdated and it's stale. Back to the budget. We are considering the first budgets of the Republic of Slovenia prepared by this government, which the National Assembly gave it in February this year, and it is also a government whose organisational scheme is the smallest since we have our own independent country. We have the smallest government because of greater efficiency, but also because of lower costs. Reducing public spending and in this context all public expenditure is one of the key priorities of the government and the coalition. Thus, the Government took the first step in reducing the costs of the state immediately, at the very beginning of its mandate, by reducing the number of ministries. Only savings on the salaries of ministers and secretaries at the annual level amount to almost half a million euros. I provide some data showing savings in the functioning of the State Administration. According to data from the ministries, the wage for employees in ministries paid in July 2011 is lower by €3.85 million, a savings of €46.2 million at the annual level. The number of copyright and business contracts has also decreased. If there was a total of 1161 last July and the total monthly cost on the basis of these contracts was EUR 368,000, it was EUR 783 in July of this year, and the monthly payment was EUR 218 000. Compared to July last year and July this year, the reduction in the cost of copyright and business contracts at the monthly level amounted to around 150 000 euros, an estimated savings of 1.8 million euros at the annual level. The comparison of the cost data for official travel in government institutions in the first half of this year compared to the same period last year shows significant savings since it was used for 2.7 million euros less than last year. The 2013 and 2014 draft supplementary budgets of the Republic of Slovenia also follow the objectives of the Treaty for Slovenia 2012-2015 and the 2015 objective of the balanced budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Whether the time interval at which we want to balance the state budget is too short is a question. I'm sure we have different concepts. These concepts were also addressed by the outgoing President of the Republic and, if I understand it correctly, he proposed a balance of public finances, a reduction in budgetary expenditure at a longer time interval. At first glance, a nice solution, which, unfortunately for our understanding, also means extending the waiting time to improve credit ratings. This means that we should extend the waiting time for more favourable loans, extend the waiting time for investments and eventually extend the waiting time for new jobs to solve the acute existential problems of our citizens. This is not what we agree to in New Slovenia. I would also like to point out here that the Board of Directors of the IMF, the International Monetary Fund, assessed the coalition strategy in Slovenia as appropriate, particularly its awareness of the urgency of rapid action. In his report on Slovenia, the IMF called for a rapid implementation of the reform plan, including a balance of public finances. This call for action seems to me to be very important. The IMF accompanied the consideration of the report on Slovenia by a statement supporting the Slovenian Government's efforts to balance public finances and implement structural reforms. The IMF noted that the Slovenian economy is facing so-called negative recessional backlogs when problems in certain areas are exacerbating problems in other areas. Such negative effects work during the banking deleveraging process and with the financial difficulties of over-indebted companies, and are further encouraged by the structural weaknesses of the Slovenian economy, the fragility of the Slovenian financial system, weak domestic consumption and declining export demand. All of this, according to the IMF, is still calling for decisive and immediate action to address these problems. The IMF has assessed the strategy of the current ruling coalition, which focuses on measures to balance public finances, as appropriate, while welcoming plans for comprehensive and ambitious structural reforms. In the IMF, measures to remedy public finances have been supported so far, mainly based on a reduction in public spending. They are convinced that this was necessary to strengthen the confidence of financial markets. When we talk about reducing public spending, we, at least the government and the coalition MPs, often testify to the likelihood that we are overthrowing the social state, that we have stolen the social state, that we have brought the people into misery and could list them. The set of similar demagogic and yawning expressions is very broad. I would like to explain further and demonstrate by the figures that budgetary resources to ensure an adequate level of social state have increased over the past decade in the Republic of Slovenia. One of the key priorities of this government is to ensure an adequate level of social state, which is also based on the 2013 and 2014 draft budget. To compare, I will provide data on specific social items from 2002 and from the 2013 draft budget that we are adopting today. The figures show that, at the time of the 46% increase in tax revenues in 2002, the level of social items in the budget has increased above-proportionally. As a result, unemployment contributions to poor tenths of the 2013 unemployment rate will be 2.5 times higher, or 143 percent higher, than they were in 2002. Social security funds have doubled over the past decade to nearly €300 million. However, 55% will also be higher funding for the implementation of family policy. Let's see the numbers. Social security: implementation 2002, 158 million, draft budget 2013, 296 million – 87% increase. Family policy: implementation 2002, 393 million, draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013, 610.5 million – increase by 55%. Unemployment transfers: implementation 2002, 106 million, budget 2013, 258 million – increase by 143 %. Active employment policy measures: implementation of the 2002 budget, poor 60 million, draft budget for 2013, poor 97 million – increase by 64%. It follows from the above that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia continues to pay particular attention to the issue of the social state with its proposed budget 2013. In order to be able to pursue this objective in Slovenia in the future, urgent reforms need to be adopted. The reform package, in addition to pension reform and labour market reform, also covers the Slovenian State Holding Act, the Banking Stabilisation Act and individual packages to promote a more favourable business environment with less administrative burdens. Only with the timely implementation of all the measures listed above will economic development and the consequent increase in employment, a halt to the downward trend in pensions and young people be able to create new and safer jobs. As a result of the crisis and the approach to resolving the crisis, investments or funds for them have decreased in recent years. We all know that investments are essential for economic recovery and that is why we are pleased in New Slovenia that in the budgets for the next two years we are significantly increasing the investment index relative to wages and material costs. At a time when these investments were urgently needed, Slovenia had poorly invested the available European funds from the existing financial perspective. Many of these funds are still available and this is the main source of investment. In addition to the adoption of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the next two years, we need to realize something else in Slovenia, given the insufferable ease of referendum blockades, much more difficult tasks. Without the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system, it is not possible to count on positive economic growth, even if we do everything else. It is not even possible to predict what will happen to companies that today are in difficulty due to loans that cannot be repaid in time, otherwise they have good programmes, new products and new markets. The current model of crisis resolution in the banking sector has proved to be ineffective. It's a recapitalisation model. During the last three years, Slovenian taxpayers, through a decision of the previous government, which misjudged the situation in Slovenian state banks, directed new and new hundreds of millions to state banks. Banks are still producing losses and at the same time we have banks in Slovenia that are not state-owned, which have operated under the same conditions of tight economic conditions and which create profits, and we have not recapitalised them with state money. The model of recapitalisation of banks proved to be ineffective and expensive for Slovenian taxpayers. For the second time, according to the Council of State, the National Assembly has approved the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. Unfortunately, there is a referendum fate hanging over him. The resolution of the banking system will not automatically ensure the release of the credit crunch. We agree with this in New Slovenia. Many Slovenian companies are over-indebted and without an adequate share of property to allow additional credit for development. The rehabilitation of the banking system is necessary, but it is not sufficient. The country's capital investments should also be an important budgetary resource. Their management is dispersed between 5 different institutions. This management is ineffective, expensive and opaque. It happens that different managers of the same state investment decide in the assemblies quite the opposite, even in conflict and irrational ways. At a time when some live on the social floor, we are witnessing high awards, long-term contracts are signed, jobs are threatened and no one is responsible. The interconnection of private interests between members of the administration and the supervisory boards, which is a shift from good corporate governance practices, is also a major problem. All of this we wanted to end and create order with the solutions that we have written in the Slovenian State Holding Act, since the current situation systematically reduces the value of state assets and discourages the interest of foreign capital after investing in Slovenian companies. Unfortunately, there is also a referendum fate over this law. Members and Members of Parliament know exactly what measures are crucial for Slovenia at this time. This is not only the position of the coalition, it is also the official position of the European Commission, the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the OECD, the four non-foreign institutions are ours because Slovenia is a part of each of them. Their opinion is very important and, among other things, has an impact on the country's credit ratings and on the value of our state assets or how much Slovenia is still a relevant and valued political and economic partner in the world. Dear Members and Members of New Slovenia will be supported by the 2013 and 2014 draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We could be overplaying different draft budgets and allowing for even greater budget deficits, but we are aware that if we want to maintain sovereignty, we need to manage our indebtedness. We swear on the stability of public finances for economic growth and economic growth for the stability of public finances. This is about our future, about the future of our children, who are awaiting education and entry into the labour market. It is also about pensioners, whom we have talked about a lot in the past days and very positively. The pensioners who have completed the active work, and we want to give them a decent pension. It is also the farthest Slovenian village and its villagers from Ljubljana, which are often not visible and not heard from Ljubljana. The citizens of Slovenia are certainly not equal, we are not equal, but we are equal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u9	On behalf of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities, Dr László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In opening, I should say that, due to the kind of mission of our Group of Members, all budgets must be assessed from a general perspective, but at the same time these documents must also be dealt with from a specific national point of view. As far as the general position is concerned, we believe that or the conditions for the production of the budget documents were extremely difficult, such as in the period of Slovenia alone were probably not yet. We are unfortunately too long on some virtual wagon that is still wooding down and, in such circumstances, planning the state budget is very difficult and for the government and all other entities is an unappreciative task. On the income side, there is a lot of shortage, and the generators of new resources have not yet come to life. A justifiable demand and a tendency to consolidate state finances forces us to restrict the public sector, which represents some kind of vicious circle. The latest data on our current macroeconomic situation is even more worrying. In view of all this, it will be necessary to look even more intensively at the possibility of launching major investment projects, as only a policy of saving, which is indisputable and in the context of social and general social sustainability, is not necessarily sufficient to consolidate the situation. If we compare today's situation with that of the Great Depression of the 20th century at the end of the 20th and the beginning of the 30th years, which is ungracious, however, it clearly confirms that the decline in the purchasing power of the population, resulting from the austerity policy, has further deepened the crisis to a certain extent. This is also pointed out indirectly by the last report of Umar. It is likely that all of us can be united in the view that there are almost no ideal or good solutions under the circumstances. If the pipe on the revenue side is still quite closed, the margin of manoeuvre on the expenditure side is extremely limited. Structural reforms such as the resolution of the banking system, pension reform, etc. are urgent, so it is not worth wasting words and therefore our support for these projects has been unequivocal. I repeat, also on the basis of the experience of the countries or crisis situations of the previous century, that at the shortest possible time, all forces will have to focus on the promotion of major investments and infrastructure projects of the state level. The other is simply not left because no uncle from anywhere or from abroad will be able to help us. In such circumstances, we will be very concerned about supporting the 2013 and 2014 draft budgets. Because of the constructive posture in today’s difficult circumstances, it is not possible to do otherwise from our position. We regret, however, that it has not been possible to agree with the competent higher education institutions, with institutions in the field of education and education and in particular with children's protection, and with certain other public sector entities, such as health care, and with their trade union representatives, on the best possible level of support for these activities. Just for instance, let me point out that higher education and science and education and child protection are, and will be, vital to the successful development of the country and society. At the same time, we are aware that in the areas mentioned above only a system based on real foundations can be maintained in symbiosis with the economic situation of the country, but I do not think that communication to solve problems has long been at the desired level and context. The culprit does not need to be sought; solutions need to be sought so that, despite slightly less favourable figures in the budget, a bridge solution can be found for these primary areas. In part, perhaps in the context of today’s debate or with the amendments tabled. From the point of view of indigenous national communities, the proposed budgets in the light of the circumstances are correct, nominally in the programming work in similar or identical frameworks as for 2012. For a positive approach in the spirit agreed upon, I must thank the Government and the competent ministries, which have also been in cases where the initial difficulties have been identified, prepared for compromise solutions, aware of the high levels of vulnerability of the few Hungarian and Italian national communities or areas where we live or live together with representatives of the majority people. In addition to the Ministry of the Interior, I would particularly like to commend the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport's approach, which has made a special effort with regard to the cultural activity of nationality for 2014 and the implementation of the investment in the school infrastructure of the Italian National Community. Unfortunately, there has not been a significant change in the economic framework of the indigenous community, which is not a direct budgetary issue, but in terms of the preservation of the community and the comprehensive development of those areas, it is of paramount importance. Finally, let me say that we firmly hope that in the field of education and child protection, as regards systems in this area, in the national mixed area, the situation in 2013 and 2014 will be the same as in 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u11	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u12	Your Honor! Today we have the most important documents of this government for the next two years: the 2013 state budget and the 2014 state budget. In 2013, the country will spend 9.6 billion euros through the state budget. That's a lot of money, actually. This means that every child, woman, man, every citizen in Slovenia spends €4,000. On average, this is how we spend 26 million euros per day, only through the state budget. Taking into account the use of medical and pension bills and municipalities, this figure almost doubles — close to €45 million a day. They say that the budget of a kind of social contract, a contract between citizens on the one hand and a country on the other. The budget is nothing more than a redistribution of the taxes collected. That is why the state budget should be an expression of the commitment between the government and parliament and the citizens, the treaty between the state and the citizens – and unfortunately that is not the case. Since the adoption of the balance sheet, we continue to remind you that your economic and public financial policy is also wrong. All that's going on today is unfortunately just confirming our words a few months ago, and you didn't believe us. That's what the numbers tell you today. Today is before you and us the fact that Slovenia is again in recession. Instead of talking today about how many new jobs you have opened up in your mandate, how many people are living better, what more we need to do to make our people feel better, that the stars of hope will shine again in the sky, as our new president of the country says, we are talking about the increasingly unemployed, the hungry children, the destruction of our public education, education, from kindergartens to universities, the destruction of our public health, the abolition of culture, the ideological divisions of pensioners. Your two budgets, the 2013 and 2014 budgets, will drive Slovenia even lower. In addition, your savings package does not in any way give you the financial effects you wanted and displayed. Not to speak of it, I will show you with the numbers in the tables and graphs that you are not on the right path, that this is the path of doom and no way to hope for Slovenia. In Positive Slovenia, your 2013 and 2014 budgets cannot be supported in any way. The package of documents we have before us today is as bad as ever. The budgetary memorandum, which should reflect your economic and public financial policies, ends in 2011. With 2011, when you were just a few steps away from the government. You obviously don't know what your fiscal and economic policy is supposed to be in the next three years. To this end, it also shows a table that you can see, where the yellow is everything that is missing in the budget memorandum. The deficit of four treasury states, the budget, municipalities, ZPIZ and health care – not a word about this, except that the minister says we'll be there around 3%. When we talk about deficits, we talk about different levels or different deficits, and it is important that we know what we are comparing. On this graph you can see the movement of gross domestic product, the movement of the deficit of four cash registers and the movement of the deficit in ESA 95, the deficit in which we are assessed by all financial institutions, including those who lend us money. Much has been said about how the financial deficit and deficit of the state sector fell dramatically in 2009. Logically, income in times of crisis is falling immediately and public spending cannot respond so quickly unless you agree and say that you will reduce pensions in half, pay in half and something else in half. The red line shows the government deficit of four cash registers. This is the part that we spend on pensions, wages, social transfers and investments. On this graph, you can see that this deficit has been falling nicely since 2009, when it was the highest. The problem is the green line, this is the ESA 95 deficit, which in 2011 is higher due to the recapitalisation that took place, especially the recapitalisation of the NLB, and if you had listened to the minister before, this story will be repeated in 2012 and also in 2013. The deficit changes several times within 8, 6 months in your government. The above line shows your predictions in the stability programme that was delivered, I think, April of this year. In October of this year, you increased the ESA 95 deficit to 4.2%, and because of Coco bonds and the new balance announced earlier, this deficit will significantly exceed 4.2%. In the two lines below, you see the forecasts of the European Commission and the OECD forecasts, which are all essential or very distant from your forecasts. Not to mention – how do we get from a deficit of four cash registers to a deficit of ESA 95? The deficit of four cash registers, once again, is a deficit created by pensions, salaries, social transfers, including investments, with everything that represents expenditure in the state budget. In 2011, since you often like to point out that this year is catastrophic, the four treasury deficit was 4.3% of gross domestic product. The calculation adjustments brought in an additional 0.7 because they go from the cash flow methodology to the calculation methodology. Other deficits or surpluses of others belonging to the state sector have brought an additional 0.4% of GDP and other corrections, including recapitalisations, have brought 1% of GDP. We're at 6.4. Now look at your 2012 forecast. The calculation adjustments were only to be by 0,2 % and the other corrections to the current estimate by 0,3 %. Since the deficit and debt report will not be the same, the deficit under ESA 95, the deficit for the whole country sector, will be at least 5.5% of the gross domestic product. From 6.4% to 5.5%, and we're still very, very far from 3%, which were your promises. So it looked like your original plan, which also looks very nice on the graph. Close to 2015, it was supposed to have a flat budget and respect the fiscal rule you wanted to write down in the Constitution. And that's what he'll look like when you include bank recovery in the deficit. You can see that the deficit in 2013 will even be lower than in 2011. It's also here in numbers, as a percentage of GDP, a comparison. By 2011, there are facts, then the government's first forecast in the stability programme 3.5, 2.5, 1.5, 0.4 deficits. It looks great, but it's not real. As I have already said, you have already raised the deficit to 4.2 for 2012. The European Commission's forecast suggests that it will move around around 4% at all times, but if we include bank rehabilitation, it will be even higher than it was in 2011. This is only because you are the one who convinced us that the fiscal rule must enter into force in 2015. Now, please explain to us how from 4.1% of the deficit you're going to get to 0.4% in one year! I'd really like to hear that. Also, ladies and gentlemen of DeSUS, who have explained that this should not be done at the expense of pensions or anything else – I will not explain more than a billion 300, billion and a half in one year! And that's what the graph looks like when we compare your first predictions. By 2011, your first predictions are the same, dark blue, red, and green, what is actually going to happen is unfortunately the European Commission's forecasts. The Minister reminded me on the Finance Committee, where I had shown similar tables and graphs, that I had forgotten to write down a structural deficit, so I added this, Mr Minister. It is true, however, that the structural deficit is a calculated category, which is affected by several variables. So here you can see that our assessments differ and the European Commission has assessed the structural deficit for 2009, 2010 and 2011 even slightly lower than in our stability programme, as we are alone. But, as we say, it's a calculated category and it's affected by a lot of variables. What I wanted to point out is once again that, even in structural deficits, you want citizens and citizens to make an effort for almost 3% of gross domestic product in one year, if you still insist that the fiscal rule should be enforced in 2015. It's also a graphic representation of this. The upper blue line also looks great, but again, unfortunately, unrealistic. The red assessment of the European Commission and the lower, dark red or black, is what will happen when we include bank recovery in the deficit. It's not a single action, Mr. Secretary. Since you always point out that NLB has been recapitalised for the fifth consecutive year, it will be difficult to sell this to Europe and to someone else as a single measure because the single structural deficit measures do not increase. It's a long country. A highly valued and repeatedly mentioned IMF institution has announced for Slovenia, as indicated by red. The country's debt to the wider sector will be at the end of 2015, thus remaining until 2017 – by then forecasts have been made – and it will grow and will not fall below 70% of the gross domestic product. Your forecast is 51% of gross domestic product. Now we're where you've been selling to us that bank recovery will not affect deficits and not debt. 11% of GDP will cost Slovenia your way of rehabilitating banks. You never wanted to show us what other alternatives are and how much these other alternatives cost. In no way did you manage your debt, even though we had heard that the debt was in control before. It can be controlled, but at 70% of the gross domestic product. I'm not going to repeat how loud you said the debt was over. That wasn't me or us, that's what you said. I have said many times that the budgets for 2013 and 2014 are unrealistic. It is unrealistic because it is the basis for preparing this year's rebalancing, which will not be realized in the amount that you have planned. If there is no balance, as the Minister has said, your accounts will remain in the drawer and next year we will have to pay from the next budget. This is also a schedule of debt, which shows a good comparison with other countries. We have not really deviated significantly in recent years, but unfortunately this trend is not now calming down. Finally, allow me to remind you of another law, which is the law on public financial responsibility, which you submitted to Parliament on 1 April, the first signed Mr Tanko, and also signed by Mr Janša, Mr Vizjak, Mr Cernač, Mr Gorenak, all SDS Members. In this law, you said that the expenditure of the state sector should not exceed 43%. You've done it hard. Ladies and gentlemen, we must exercise public responsibility when we are in opposition, and much more so when we are or are in the government. We absolutely agree that consolidation of public finances is necessary. However, a realistic implementation plan is needed. Saving is necessary, but by no means destroying what is happening now. Growth and jobs measures are needed. In Positive Slovenia, we hope that you will find that your path to resolving the crisis is wrong as soon as possible and that you will immediately implement the measures that will lead Slovenia to economic growth and return our people to a better future. It is clear from everything that this government has no economic policy. Dearly respected, in Positive Slovenia we still believe that Slovenia is a country of opportunity and opportunity. There is still hope for Slovenia. It's just the right way to go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u13	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Dear President, distinguished ministers! The budgets for 2013 and 2014 are ahead. The budget reflects the economic, financial, social, fiscal policy of the State. The budget, these are mostly numbers, also shows which direction the country is going. The Slovenian budget has long been based on the macroeconomic origins of Umar. Umar provides macro-economic baselines, meaning, in other words, that it determines or foresees what economic growth will be like in the future, what will be the development, what will be the fiscal deficit and so on. Others, the OECD, the IMF, the European Commission, etc. deal with similar macroeconomic forecasts in the world. and these macroeconomic forecasts are always different between these organisations. As a result, there are also different starting points and plans for the development of an individual country. How many mistakes are made in these predictions are shown in the publications of Umar and can be based on whether we will go into pessimistic or optimistic developments, such as predictions, or pessimistic or optimistic. More than once, it depends on what base we take, what basis we take for this plan. This government submitted for the first time to the National Assembly a round whole of the 2013 and 2014 budgets. The main starting point is to reduce the deficit, which is also forecasted on the basis of Umar's forecasts, by reducing the country's deficit of 6,5 % of the gross social product to 2,8 % and 2,5 % of the gross social product. This means that the government comes from a budget that means spending, which is real. This spending has been or has been much closer to it in the period 2004-2008, when public sector expenditure and revenue have been levelled on one side, and this has been the basis for further development. Unfortunately, in 2009 and later in the coming years, until 2011, expenditure exceeded the revenue of the state budget by about 2 billion per year. This meant that the country had a deficit and all the problems associated with the deficit of more than 3 %, a deficit of more than 6 % of the gross social product. In Europe and in the world, all international organisations attach to the fact that spending a country must be based on real foundations. As a result, the main objective is to consolidate public finances on the one hand and to start an economy on the other. It is no longer possible for the country to spend 20% annually more than we spend. It is no longer possible that spending is based on indebtedness and that it is no longer possible to resolve debts by continuing to be indebted. We all know that this is not possible with an individual, for if that happens with an individual, he will lose all his possessions. We also know that this is not possible in countries, as countries will be able to lose their sovereignty. This is illustrated by some examples from the past when they had to substantially change their ownership structure, and we do not want that. There were certainly 60 000 jobs in 2008 more than there are today. 60,000 jobs are those in which Slovenians and Slovenians worked and 100,000 more jobs, those in which foreigners worked. This is due to the crisis, not only to the domestic crisis, but also to the international crisis. On the other hand, we had around 150,000 jobs in the economy, we had higher inflows to the state budget on taxes and higher inflows on contributions as well. This meant that during that period we could spend as much as we actually did or as much as the contributions were paid. Unfortunately, it's not like that anymore. Today, unfortunately, there are 150,000 jobs less and therefore less income, less taxes and less contributions, and spending needs to be adjusted to create a basis for further development. However, for further development it is not only enough to harmonise public finances and expenditure, but something else needs to be done, and this is reflected in the economic policy, financial policy and strategy of this government. The first thing to do is to rehabilitate Slovenian banks. Sanising Slovenian banks means that they must be cleared of so-called bad loans or so-called bad claims. Slovenian banks have tried this several times, in the same way as proposed today, but unfortunately here is an initiative for a referendum. This was already happening in the early 1990s, when we also rehabilitated banks, especially state banks, but in the way that things were handled through the Bank Recovery Agency. In other words, the structure of the Slovenian banking system is today so strong that the market share of state banks is over 50%, almost 60% if we include the SID bank. This means that the state is the main owner that has to rehabilitate banks by transferring bad claims to a new institution that manages these bad claims. Why is that? Because of the fact that in the last four years, the banking system, especially with state banks, has not been able to recover these bad claims from the banks themselves. Nothing has also happened due to poor management of these banks, poor governance mainly in terms of management structure and supervisors. For this reason, a special law for the rehabilitation of banks is being drawn up, which will allow banks to spend this money, not on weakenings, but on increasing their lending to the economy, when additional recapitalisations are made. If we recapitalise these banks today and we have them in the past, even in the past year, the banks are simply spending this money on weakenings. The following matter, which is extremely important in addition to the rehabilitation of banks, is to ensure legal certainty in the country in order to ensure that entrepreneurs and citizens and citizens can operate safely, meaning that when they provide goods or services, they will receive an adequate payment, because not getting paid for what they have done means that many economic enterprises have gone bankrupt or into what other procedures, because they have not been provided with legal certainty. Legal certainty also means to step on your fingers, and to do so effectively and quickly, to all those involved in any criminal activity. One of the basic principles, or what stems from the government’s policy, is a different management of assets. Unfortunately, current asset management has been unsuccessful and ineffective in recent years. Rather than allowing the return of 5 to 10%, especially for those companies with a so-called monopoly on the market, and state-owned companies usually have a monopoly position and the structure of these companies is such that the state is the owner of monopolistic enterprises, this return has been very small and very painful in the past. This is the responsibility of both management and supervisors as well as those institutions involved – we know that they are AUKN, Kad, Sud, DSU, PDP, etc. We can list as many as five institutions. In future and in this budget, dividend payments must be much higher, and this is the basis for the State Holding Act, which will be able to better manage state assets. This budget and this economic and fiscal and financial policy allow or ensure that we still have a social state in our society and that, despite the reduction of expenditure and deficits, solidarity and the social state remain. The fundamental elements of the social state with this budget are not buried and the social state still exists in Slovenia. This was discussed by his colleague Horvath when he saw how much more money was being spent on social affairs. It is true, however, that justice is reduced in this society and that the criteria of justice are in some way worse and need to be rectified in the future, that social income or social benefits will be paid to those who really need them and that any acts that constitute unlawful acts in economic terms or in financial terms will be prevented. On the other hand, with its economic and financial policy, the government has also announced increased economic competitiveness and increased development. There have been many measures taken by this government that are going this way. These measures have already been implemented in the tax area. If any measure is introduced in the tax area, all or most of you expect immediate effect. The immediate effect is not possible. It is not possible because most taxes are collected at the annual level. Major changes have been made and the competitiveness of companies has been increased by amending the Law on corporate income tax, but this effect cannot be expected next week, next month, this effect can be expected in 2013. Why 2013? As this is an annual tax and in March 2013, companies will apply incentives, especially for research and development, and here they can benefit fully from these investment incentives, with a change that has been made. A lower rate of corporate tax means a signal for domestic and foreign capital that financial conditions in Slovenia are competitive. This is what is important – that it is a signal for domestic and foreign capital, for greater investment and for development. On the other hand, many of the changes have also been made in the pension legislation that we adopted yesterday, as well as in tax legislation, for those who want to, who have the will or the need to start doing business, to start doing business again. The flat-rate taxation, which will provide lower costs for entrepreneurs, lower costs for those who operate and have independent family enterprises. There is certainly an opportunity for development in small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as in encouraging people to entrepreneurship. A number of regulatory changes have also been announced and have already been adopted which include certain properties, etc. in the space of certain facilities to space, in particular because, in the past and even today, it is possible to feel some fear among people about how much time they have to spend in order to obtain certain permits to obtain certain papers from municipal or state officials in order to be able to start operations. There is a lot of potential for us to build entrepreneurial centres in the country, entrepreneurial oasis, where people can operate faster, under more competitive conditions and have more favourable conditions. What is important today is that Slovenia has sufficient European resources to start development, sufficient European resources to benefit from these funds and create greater added value and more jobs through these funds. In this area, everyone would like more efficiency, less bureaucratic procedures, more ease of obtaining this, and more projects in order to benefit from it. The 2013 and 2014 budget can be viewed in terms of pessimism and we can say that the situation will be even worse, but we can also look at the budget in terms of reality or positiveism or optimism. I believe that at a time when international circumstances are not favourable, when macroeconomic indicators are unfavourable, things need to be viewed with optimism. With optimism because Slovenians and Slovenians have proved in the most difficult times that they can step together, that they have a vision and strategy to realize what is good for everyone. There's not a big word to help us here, there's no big demonstration to help us. Here, optimism and vision help us to achieve what we have in mind. I will be very pleased if the 2013 and 2014 budgets prove unrealistic. However, they are unrealistic in the sense that they are not optimistic. I will be very pleased to know that the consolidation of public finances gives us the basis for us to be able to work primarily in 2014 and in 2013 and in the years to come with development, investment in the economy, and that this will result in greater prosperity and greater satisfaction for citizens and citizens. In doing so, I stress that purely sound finances ensure long-term stability and increase the well-being of people. Once again, it is not possible to work today exclusively on debts or debt. This is why we support the 2013 and 2014 budgets in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and we believe that this budget will be achieved with development incentives and we hope that it will also be exceeded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u15	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u16	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The Parliamentary Group notes that the 2013 and 2014 budgets should provide an answer to address the situation in Slovenia. Messages at peaceful meetings are clear. We need a stable economy, jobs, public education, health care. This is not sufficiently taken into account in the draft budgets. Fast saving is not the answer, the sale of state property in the best companies is not, either, the privatisation of health care, and in particular not the destruction of public education for the promotion of private education. The fact is, gross domestic product is falling. According to data from the Statistical Office in the last quarter by 3.3%. For the first time, exports are falling by 0.7%. These are the data to which the Government must react, as they show that Slovenia is again in recession. The government and the coalition must begin to listen to the hardships of the people. Obviously, neither the government nor the coalition are yet able to do this, because in the messages we are listening to, the President of the Government wants to change the political system, submit to the judiciary, parliament, resolve mayors, Members of Parliament, and invite us to compete on who will make more proposals. If the situation in the judicial branch of the government, the legislative branch of the government and local self-government are dealt with in this way, legal certainty in Slovenia will certainly be reduced. All of this can be done without hindrance and in a thoughtful way that in the future we will not cause a competition in how many judges will be replaced if the policy is not satisfied with the judgment delivered. The fact is that the social situation of people is getting worse. Therefore, the Social Democrats once again warn the Government that it will cease its predatory interests in the sale of 12 billion state assets and will abandon the most expensive form of bank rehabilitation of EUR 5 billion and will begin to deal with job conservation and job creation measures. The fact is that at the very moment that we are discussing budgets for 2013 and 2014, the Government is facing a collapse of the Capital Investment Management Agency, which is responsible for managing 9 billion state assets. The President or the Acting President of the Agency's Board of Directors resigned. We hear that a statement of resignation yesterday was also made by members of the agency’s board or board of agencies. This is a complete government failure in the area of state property management. How can you expect the income situation to improve in the budget? How can you expect these companies to operate better, to keep jobs and to be a gross domestic product growing? The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia predicts the possibility of maintaining 10,000 jobs, opening up 30 thousand new jobs. They predict an increase in exports of €1.5 billion. We ask the government how it will act and respond to the economic hand offered. Or by changing the political system or by following the economic deadlines offered? Social Democrats warn that tightening the belt in every way is not the answer. There is no international confidence that the Government will reduce the deficit below 3% of gross domestic product in 2013. These are assessments by the OECD, the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund. Obviously, the government's thinking needs to be changed. For example, in the European Commission, Spain negotiated a reduction in the deficit below 3% of gross domestic product from 2013 to 2014. Why does Slovenia strongly insist on a policy of acute saving, reducing social security for people and declining economic growth? These are questions that these two budgets do not answer. When we look at the fiscal policy of the government, we find that the government has decided to make the biggest fiscal effort in 2012. Given the situation in the economy, this is the worst solution at the worst possible time. This has caused the government itself to decline economic growth to the greatest extent. As a result, we warned and referred to the analysis of the International Monetary Fund on rapid savings, which poses a major threat to economic recovery. In 2012, the International Monetary Fund acknowledged that it underestimated the impact of fiscal consolidation on economic growth. Therefore, the value of the fiscal multiplier is between 0,9 and 1,7 which means that the reduction of the structural deficit by 1,9 % of the gross domestic product in 2012 results in a fall of the gross domestic product from 1,71 % to a maximum of 3,2 % of the gross domestic product. The Minister of Finance also explained on the Committee that the structural deficit in 2013 was expected to decrease by 1.5% of gross domestic product, which means an additional decline or economic downturn in 2013, even to a lower level than it was in 2009. The impact of the whole government policy on total consumption, both in public and in private, needs to be looked at. The government has reduced the real disposable income of public servants, recipients of social transfers and pensioners through measures taken by the Public Finance Balance Act. It also increased the number of unemployed in 2012. The President of the Government, in his statements on the Greek scenario, created a hysteria of threats and intimidation, further deepening the crisis by reducing Slovenia's credit ratings and, consequently, encouraging the hiring of new loans or the deterioration of the conditions for reprogramming existing loans. In the history of Slovenia, consumption falls for the first time in 2012. This is a fact that is statistically justified. Public and private consumption is falling in 2012. According to the autumn 2012 European Commission's assessment, the decline in private and public consumption will result in a 2.4% reduction in economic growth in 2012 and 1.6% in 2013. If the government did not implement the policy of intimidation, the economic policy of rapid savings, economic growth could even be positive in 2012 and 2013. We would also maintain a higher level of employment, which is what people in Parliament expect us to do. Slovenia has the third largest drop in gross domestic product in 2012 in the euro area, with the third largest drop in gross domestic product in the euro area in 2013. The cause of the fall of gross domestic product is no longer the external crisis, the global crisis, but we can look for many reasons within Slovenia. The consequences of saving the country and its impact on the income of the population through the Public Finance Balance Act are increasingly clear. The decline in domestic demand in 2012 and 2013 is among the highest in the euro area. This is reflected in expenditure data for both private consumption and country spending data. In 2012, the activity of the export-oriented economy, which is expected to grow by 0.1% in 2012, and 1.9% in 2013, is also worrying. Let me remind you that exports increased by 7% in 2011! The decline in exports by 0,3 % in the second quarter of 2012 and in the third quarter by 0,7 % of gross domestic product shows the seriousness of the economic situation. Measures will need to be taken to accelerate exports and the government in the budgets ignores this problem. We ask inside the Social Democrats whether that is why early elections were needed. In the Group of Social Democrats, we regret that the Government did not choose for 2012 a prudent and gradual consolidation of public finances that would not have acted against economic growth. The reduction of the deficit only at the expense of public spending in 2012 stifled the economy. We therefore stress that if the laws adopted in the previous term, which fell at the referendums, were to be adopted today, there would be no need for such a drastic reduction in public spending, only to extend the intervention law until the end of 2012 and to tax the wealthiest revenues more and things would be completely manageable. As we look at the revenue policy of the current government, we estimate that the continuation of the deficit reduction should be based on an increase in the revenue of the state budget. In order to achieve this, we have shown in the previous mandate when we wanted to reduce the grey economy, but then the policy encouraged the referendums, including the law on the prevention of black work, which would bring undeclared employment for workers. A little work would also reduce the grey economy. The fall of pension reform has increased the number of pensioners to record levels. As a result, the hole in 2012 is 300 million. As a result, there is a larger hole in the health treasury. When we look at the effects of the new tax proposals since 2013, we can say that the Bank's Financial Services Tax Act does not introduce taxes to collect more money from banks, but the banks will transfer this tax to positions, as all costs are passed on to end-users. Given the fact that the government is imposing this law on the bills, it will tax the weakest. It will also tax, to the maximum extent, pensioners who do not use electronic banking services and pay post office and bank boxes where they charge the highest fees for bills. This proves that the burden of the crisis will again be on the weakest. With amendments to the Tax Law on Balanced Banks, the government additionally taxes banks and further deepens credit crunches – quite the opposite of what the economy needs. The amendments to the Income Act have resulted in the adoption of a vigilary taxation of rental income. Instead of progressive taxation, Cedular Income Taxation has been adopted and thus the Government is burdening the richest tenants who give out the most housing, and is burdening those who give out fewer apartments and are able to resolve their social situation. We welcome the fact that we have helped to put a stop to the senseless proposals of the Minister of Finance regarding amendments to the Value Added Tax Act, but at the same time we believe that we must be extremely careful in the next steps as to how this resource will be replaced. The proposal for a value added tax law provided for 70 million more tax revenues. Instead, the government is supposed to raise excise duties on fuels, excise duties on alcohol and cigarettes, double the excise duty on electricity. They're also supposed to impose a tax on sweet drinks. We think that this way of taxation can be problematic, especially the doubling of excise duties on electricity. While the minister says that there will be only one euro in the positions, this increase will affect the most socially sensitive. It can also be problematic to raise excise duties on electricity for companies by the Government. This increase will threaten the labour intensive sectors, which are then very quickly threatened with job loss. Therefore, the Social Democrats propose that the Government cancel the reduction of the corporate income tax in 2013 by €190 million rather than raising electricity costs. With regard to the tax on sweet drinks, we need to be careful because this encourages drinking with artificial sweeteners that are even more harmful to health. All these measures are also opposed by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which strongly rejects the proposal to introduce higher excise duties in energy consumers who, in their view, are already too high and could further jeopardise the competitiveness of the Slovenian industry. They also oppose the introduction of a sweet drink tax because customers will thus buy cheaper drinks with sweeteners and dyes. The recession in which the Slovenian industry is located does not allow the increase of excise duties on energy products. For some companies this may even be dangerous, as the increases in already high and therefore non-competitive excise duties on energy products may no longer be tolerated, they point out at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. In their view, the measure is selective and may have similar negative effects in particular sectors, such as a selective increase in value added tax. They therefore propose that the Ministry of Finance immediately withdraw the proposed increase in excise duties on energy products and the introduction of a tax on sweet drinks. The minister is expected to move excise duties on energy products down to the level of the average of the European Union, not up. They also expect the proposed introduction of sweet drinks tax to be withdrawn because buyers will buy cheaper substitutes, and the purchase to the Treasury will be substantially less modest and not properly calculated, because they believe that the calculation was made at a time when economic growth and consumption were significantly higher than they are today. The revenue from excise duty on energy consumers in the share of gross domestic product is already the highest in comparison with the countries within the European Union. The Chamber of Commerce points out that higher excise duties will significantly reduce the competitiveness of the entire Slovenian industry and, consequently, we can expect lower exports again, we can expect a fall in gross domestic product and a re-loss of jobs. It is also important to stress within price policy that it is not only a problem of increasing excise duties on energy products but also a problem of easing prices for municipal services in municipalities. The fact is that prices of utilities are forecast to rise to up to 300%. Some even speak of a 400% increase in the prices of municipal services. Such a price policy is certainly not conducive to economic growth. This cost will impose a heavy burden on our industry, so the reduction in corporate tax rates, including an increase in tax reliefs, will reduce the tax liability for 2013 by €190 million, is certainly one of the solutions proposed by the Social Democrats. In 2014 and 2015, when the tax rate is reduced by one percentage point each year under the proposal, this is estimated to mean an additional EUR 32 million less tax each year, or a total of EUR 266 million less government revenue. The saddest part is that if the government maintains this tax at such a low rate, it will spend these EUR 266 million on direct consumption, not on raising economic growth and increasing employment. Companies will not invest further, despite being reduced by their tax liability or increasing tax reliefs within the corporate income tax. In a situation where orders are decreasing, companies are reducing production and reducing activity. This is why they do not decide on new investments. The analysis by the Ministry of Finance on the effect of reducing the tax rate on corporate income by means of a general equilibrium model shows minimal effects on all elements of gross domestic product. In these uncertain circumstances, it would be better for the State to directly encourage the economy through subsidies for investment in technological equipment and calls for company development projects. In view of the content of the 2013 budget, we note that the Government continues to cut development funding. For this reason, we expect Slovenia to increase the development backlog compared to the European Union. We believe that the Government should maintain or even increase subsidies to encourage businesses. Over-indebted companies without State aid will not be able to help and stay. The data from Banka Slovenije show that only one third of companies today are able to repay loans. The recovery of the economy in the 2009-2011 mandate could be faster, but economic growth has further fallen due to the consequences of the previous wrong economic policy that overheated the economy. Since the beginning of 2005, economic growth has been based on increased indebtedness. The most pronounced increase in gross external debt in 2007 was a good EUR 10 billion, which means that 6.8% of economic growth was based on very unhealthy foundations. The total external gross debt increased from € 15.3 billion to €39.2 billion in the 2004-2008 mandate. This amount is the same as the amount owed by Slovenia from independence until the end of 2004. Thus, Slovenia became a net debtor instead of a net creditor. In 2004, we still had €2 billion left, and in 2008 we were already in debt of €13 billion. With the return of this government, the rapid consolidation of public finances in 2012 has resulted in a permanent loss of economic growth potential. We estimate that it made the same mistakes made by the Japanese government in 1997 and 2001, when it was saving to a greater extent, without taking account of the situation in the economy. We can talk about losing a whole decade, not a few years of successful economic development. What is the direction in the expenditure of the state budget when we look at the comparison between the previous and the current government? The Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia published the first provisional data on the development and research activities of Slovenia in 2011. According to this data, our national economy invested €894 million or 2.47% of gross domestic product in research and development in 2011. This is a very important indicator of the development intensity of the national economy and the importance of knowledge in its competitiveness on the world market and its acquired comparative advantages. Knowledge has a bearing on the employment, well-being and prospects of the entire national economy. Slovenia, with a 2.5% share of gross domestic product in R & D, is immediately classified as developing intensive countries, which target around 3% of gross domestic product or even more for these investments. The Scandinavian countries, with the exception of Norway, Japan and South Korea, have an investment share in research and development of up to 3% of their gross domestic product and the United States of America, Germany and Austria have around 3% of their gross domestic product. In 2011, Slovenia made a significant leap ahead of the average of the European Union — France, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom — not to mention other countries. It is therefore noted that in 2011 in Slovenia companies contributed a large part of funding for R & D investments. At the same time, the majority of these investments were made in the business sector, up to 74%. These percentages are not significantly different from other economically developed countries. The increased development intensity of Slovenia in 2011 did not come on its own. It has been enabled and encouraged by a number of measures of our economic policy, ranging from tax reliefs for R & D investments, development credits from the Slovenian Export Company and the European Investment Bank, to state grants mainly linked to the absorption of various European Union funds. Between 2008 and 2011, investment in research and development in Slovenia increased by €277 million and 45%. In 2011 business sector investments were 37% and the country's investments were 108% higher than, for example, in 2008. As we look at the situation in today's government, one year after the early elections, we note that the 2013 and 2014 draft budgets continue to be a policy of decommissioning science and information society, which started with the 2012 rebalancing. The reduction in resources for science and the information society shows the government's priorities compared to the previous government. The former government has realised resources for science and the information society amounting to €293 million; the 2012 budget balance has reduced to around €209 million. The 2013 budget proposal reduced them to EUR 211 million and the 2014 budget to EUR 177 million. How will we follow the proposals for investment in R & D of 4% of gross domestic product, which is also suggested by our most prominent economic expert, Dr. Peter Kraljič, if we want to reduce Slovenia's development backlog? With such a drastic reduction in R & D resources as are recorded in these two budgets, it certainly does not. Slovenia ranked 6th in 2010 after investing in R & D, at 2% of gross domestic product and Finland at first, with almost 4% of gross domestic product, are comparable after the crisis to the country with the largest drop in gross domestic product in 2009 and with the export attitude of the economy. If we look today at where Finland is, where Slovenia is, we can seriously ask ourselves what we are doing or what the ruling policy is doing right now. Reducing research and development resources will certainly result in the loss of the most educated people. These will go abroad and I think we are already dealing with this fact. The funds for young researchers were almost €43 million in 2011. The 2012 balance reduces to €31 million and in 2013 to €25 million. Young researchers flee abroad for this reason. The consequences of this government's actions — I hope we are aware — will therefore be permanent — permanently negative. Research projects are being phased out and scientific research activities are dying out. From 210 million in 2011, we come to 153 million in 2012 and to 143 million euros in 2013. The reduction in budgetary resources and other measures envisaged by the Government in the field of education, science and research will, in the long term, reject the intellectual potential of this country and put the institutions implementing the programmes at the brink of survival. Therefore, it is not random to warn experts that compare current developments with events in systems that are supposed to exceed them civilisationally and, in themselves, offer a thesis on the attack on the intellectual core of society. It is significant that new, political and economically semi-private higher education institutions are forecasting in the face of apparent public education poverty, with more or less clear that they rely primarily on public funds or the government. Increasing the number of children in classes, closing schools, reducing accessibility to quality public education and introducing schooling, impoverishment of public universities and other educational institutions, grading of teaching and research professions are only part of the envisaged measures that the Government takes into account all its documents it provides to us. It is clear from everything that universities and research institutes cannot bear such a drastic reduction in resources in 2013 and will therefore have a very serious situation. Failure to pay and leave or prepare for the departure of the best experts will stop the work process, illiquidity will result in the loss of services, all of which will divert attention and action away from teaching and research work. All direct and indirect consequences will be met mainly by young people who want to learn and want to shape their future with knowledge. If the Government would like to take care of the economy in order not to stifle it, it should maintain the level of R & D resources, maintain investment in education and the level of funding for active employment policy already in 2012. We are therefore proposing amendments to mitigate all these consequences and proposing an increase of at least €16 million in funding for the implementation of the first and second Bologna rates. We also propose to provide additional food resources of 25 million and to provide an additional EUR 10 million for the labour market. These are the amendments with which we want to mitigate at least a little bit all the consequences arising from the budgets adopted if they are adopted. If we link the 2013 and 2014 budgets with the law on the implementation of the budget, the policy or policy of this government is further exposed. The government wants more jurisdiction. The National Assembly is no longer supposed to decide on budget rebalancing. The purpose of the sale of assets is very clear from these budgets. In the law on the implementation of the budget, we can see that you want to sell 3.4 billion euro of the assets of the Republic of Slovenia that it has in the companies. You also want to transfer the responsibility in the law on the implementation of the budget to the directors of public institutions and even punish them if they are dealing with a loss. We therefore estimate that the Government, through the Law on the Implementation of the 2013 and 2014 budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, will sell out the last property of pensioners provided in Kad. The capital company will also become insolvent due to exhaustion, will be forced to sell its entire assets, almost 10% stake in Krk, 8.27% stake in Petrol, 5.6% stake in Telekom, 22.2% stake in Gorenje, 20.32% stake in Hit. All we can expect is that the Capital Society will be shut down as soon as it sells out. To a large extent, this will be known mainly in the financing of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. The law on the implementation of the budget also gives a very strong mandate to allocate funds in the budgets by abolishing the Institute of Budget Rebalance and thus, with respect for colleagues and colleagues, the supervision of the National Assembly over government, the implementation of the budget. Public institutions also lose the part of their independence that they had under the applicable legislation, namely the preparation and adoption of a final account. Instead of increasing autonomy, the administration of the state in these public institutions is increasing. The Councils of the Institutions shall lose their importance in the work relating to financial operations. The required reduction in the level of wage funds, as foreseen by both budgets, will be achieved through various measures that will certainly affect the scope and quality of the public service in a given area. In view of the provisions of the Wages Act and the Public Finance Balance Act, it is expected that this can only be achieved in certain areas by amending the Staff Regulations or, if you wish, by forgiving. With regard to debt in the coming years and what we have heard, that this government is holding on to policies to reduce debt, it must be made clear that the debt over these two years is projected at EUR 9.1 billion, which is more than a billion over 2010 and 2011. How many eyewitnesses did we then hear that the former government is only in charge of Slovenia and that it is not thinking about how to solve problems? We note that such indebtedness raises doubts about the serious intention to reduce public debt. In this context, the appropriateness of the drafted text of the fiscal rule is again raised under questions, as debt would have increased significantly despite the reduction of the deficit. The fiscal rule, however, aims to reduce debt. So the government's action goes in a completely different direction than expected under the fiscal rule. The consolidation of public finances by 2015 and the abolition of the structural deficit for 2015 is wrong. Data from the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund show that economic growth and employment must be promoted by 2017. We do not see this in these budgets. With regard to the proposals for reforms and the resolution of the banking system, it is worth mentioning that the Social Democrats had already warned at the beginning of this government that it is necessary to approach the rehabilitation of banks – this shows the experience we have gained during the rule period – but not that fiscal consolidation is carried out as a first priority and the stability of banks as a last one. Nevertheless, we think that without lending there will be no growth and no exit from the crisis. We also agree with the assessment of external experts or experts in banking. For example, Mr Aljoša Tomaž, former director of the Bank, points out that the bad bank is significantly more expensive and less effective than the direct capital strengthening of banks. The country must maintain its stable financial system as it has shown in this crisis that foreign banks and branches of foreign banks are among the first to reduce lending. The financial crisis has shown how important banks are in financing economic development. The banks are the backbone of the economy and therefore there is a clear difference between the old, developed members of the European Union and the new members of the European Union. The old members of the European Union have maintained the majority of the banking system for financing the economic development of their country. The new members, with the exception of Slovenia, have left the banking market to foreigners and the financial crisis has revealed the weaknesses of foreign ownership. It is a question of the link between foreign ownership of banks and the financial stability of the country in which these banks operate. Through the privatisation and sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, foreigners will decide the fate of the property of the New Ljubljana Bank and also the property of all of us, because Nova Ljubljanska Banka is the second largest owner of the group Pivovarna Laško, the third largest owner of Petrol, the second largest owner of Istria Autoelectrica with 2 thousand 500 employees and the second most important owner of Istrabenz, Unior and the largest individual owner of the spa in Laškem. Also, Nova Ljubljanska Banka is the most important owner of a number of companies to be hit by the bankruptcy of church holding companies. The most important company among them is definitely the Helios Domžale Group with Belinka, which employs 2 000 536 people, or the Youth Book, which employs thousands of 500 people. Thus, with the announced sale of the country's share in the New Ljubljana Bank, the government will cause negative consequences and, in particular, the relocation of liquidity shocks from foreign countries to Slovenia, which can only be prevented by the majority ownership of the State, say, in the New Ljubljana Bank. Banka Slovenije will also lose some of its control over Nova Ljubljanska banka when it becomes, say, a branch or a subsidiary bank of another foreign bank. In doing so, the Bank of Slovenia will lose control of its financial stability and, respectable, we lose our sovereignty, which you mention so many times in your performances. In view of all the above, it is really important to ask why a bad bank is being set up. Why wouldn't it be better to recapitalise banks, say, from 800 million to 1.2 billion euros? Why don't we just solve the problems right now and not put this off for 2017, which can be fatal for us? We welcome the Government's action taken by Cimos and decided to recapitalise. We have also pointed out this in other companies, with the Government always voicing itself that Santa Claus will not help the economy. Despite the amendments proposed and hoped to be adopted by the Social Democrats, the overall budget composition for 2013 and 2014 is so problematic that we cannot support them. But we hope that our amendments will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The following is the presentation of the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List. Mr. Boyan Starman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u18	Nice hello to you all! I'm embarrassed because I don't know what I would add to all the thorough analyses of our budgetary developments for years ago and for years to come, but still. Today we are talking about the budget in our discussions. In order to shed light on the whole situation, however, as Mrs Alenka Bratušek said, all our public finances must be taken into account. For comparison, we can take data from 2011, when we had €36 billion 172 million of total GDP. Of this, we have spent 16 billion 584 million in the public sector. Of this, the budget we are talking about today was EUR 9 billion 362 million. Every time I talk about public spending, I look very carefully, and I am sorry that the financial service in our presentations has not prepared a comprehensive review for us. Last year we gave 4 billion 941 million euros for pensions. Through the health department, which is the third pillar, we have given 2 billion 340 million euros. We also forget the municipal treasury, which is the fourth cash register – EUR 2 billion 97,000. We have created a billion €540 million of government deficit last year. I have said these numbers to make sure that we are aware of the importance of public spending discussions, and I will link them to some of the reasons and answer questions about how to get to the situation so that it will be easier for us. Budgets are cost-effective. It is right that they are cost-effective. I hope that the proponents have been fair and have fairly distributed this savings into all segments of our consumers. I don't see any significant deviations. When making budgets, even when they were very luxurious, they were never everyone's satisfaction, they always wanted as much cake as possible. I hope that this has been done in a relative and fair manner and therefore would not have gone into the budget content for 2013 and 2014. However, from previous figures, I would like to go to another area that seems very important to me and that has a vital impact on our lives today. In 2007, we had plus 90 million in finance. In 2008, there was a deficit of €104 million in public finances, €980 million in 2009 and €896 million in 2010. A little less in 2011, as I said before. It seems a little funny that I'm talking about these numbers, but since we didn't realize in 2009 that our gross domestic product had fallen, and because we said to invest this money I don't know where, we didn't react and reduce public spending to an appropriate level of income and we produced a 2-billion-dollar hole and accumulated about 8 billion new debt – because we brought this deficit through debt, 8 billion euros, at current prices, as we are paying the loan, it's EUR 480 million. €480 million is 7% of the budget we are talking about. If we did not then owe ourselves and tighten the belt when this was necessary when we did not have enough income, now we would not have to pay this EUR 400 million interest for this money and this capital would not have to be returned! From this point of view, it's huge. When we were in debt and had such a large public deficit, there was an increase in the level of indebtedness. We went to the cost of interest with 300, 400, 500 – this year we will have 681 in the 2013 budget. So far, around 680 interest will be spent this year. You know, these are such huge amounts that I don't think are necessary. Without austerity measures, public services could be carried out if they started to save in time. We haven't done that, and now we're dealing with these problems. My only problem with the 2013 and 2014 budgets is that you still have 1.09 billion deficits in 2013 and 900 million euros in 2014. This will mean automatic again next year, without doing anything, an additional 60 million, which will have to be saved somewhere and will hurt us again for next year. I don't know why we can't put this in our heads and say that we don't need to know what kind of words and I don't know what kind of big politics and big conversations. The fact is, it has to be done. The only reason we have a problem with this budget is because it's too generous. Let's start spending when we have, then there won't be a problem. But we need to know that before we have to avoid the cost of high interest, we will have to return the principals. We live in advance. So it really takes sobriety. I've listened to so many and so many different comments that my head hurts. The next thing that I think is essential – the fact is that we had 37 billion 280 million GDP a few years ago. For 2013, GDP is expected to be 35 billion 800 million. I mean, we're expecting a cut. If we could keep employees, keep businesses, achieve a level of competitiveness so that our companies could obtain orders abroad so that they could create, then they could be Switzerland. Just because we don't want to get along, we don't want to listen, we don't do anything. One percent of GDP growth, which is 36 billion, is 360 million euros. Do you know how much money that is? How difficult it is to save, with all these taxes – there will be 10 million euros, there will be 15 million euros. You don't get to 360 million euros for the devil! It is essential that we focus and focus on how to achieve a lean country, increase our GDP, increase employment, increase the competitiveness of our economy. I have said many times that we can do this only to improve the conditions. I read in the paper that Mr. Akrapovich would like to build on Barja, and the bureaucrats say that because of the wild beasts and colossalists they will not allow him to do so. This can only happen in our country, where bureaucracy and stupidity rule smart and business people. I only made that point as an example. I would like to invite everyone once again to withdraw these referendum initiatives, which are hurting us, for God's sake, do stupid things! If they're not these banks, they're funding the economy, and we're putting down and sitting down. We're sitting in this government, state property, someone said. We're making a fool out of everything! We're making a fool of ourselves and supporting all the thievery in this country that's going on! Once again, the Civil Code will support the draft laws. We hope that the deficits will be smaller in realisation than we wrote them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the final presentation of our position. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Michael Prevc. I propose that we really focus on presenting the position of the individual parliamentary group and not on accusing individual other segments or areas of the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The adoption of the budget for the next two years, in addition to some key reforms, is the most important moment in this mandate. It also includes the framework for future economic policy led by the state. Let's take a look at the state we're in. Slovenia, as a Central European small economy, is strongly involved in international financial and economic flows. That's what we wanted. We have entered the European Community and the common monetary union, we have taken over the euro's common currency. What does that mean? Let us now leave legislative obligations to Europe. This means that we have committed ourselves to the fall of physical borders, that we have accepted the game played by the most advanced economies. Suddenly we need to be competitive, suddenly we have to compete in global markets. Suddenly, our country contests, which we sometimes left far behind – Slovakia, Poland, the Czech Republic, and Hungary, are overcoming us. With such a dynamic that we have in recent years, in a few years, we will change from the country that the European Union has set as a model to the model example of imported state economic policies. True, the global crisis was expected unprepared, virtually without the euro on the bad weather reserve. But they followed 3 years of blindness and 3 years of lying to themselves, it's not so bad that it's somehow going to work itself out. He didn't. The huge debt that we pay high interest for today did not help. Mostly because of the fact that the borrowed money did not go into investment, but rather into the pursuit of economic growth, but into the artificial maintenance of the standard of living of the population, at least those who lost jobs in the real sector as per the current lane. Today, it is not enough that we are better than the former countries of the common republic, today we must be the best in Europe and not in the Balkans. That was the goal we set ourselves. Slovenia has already promised in 2009 how we will make arrangements to get our finances in order, so that there is no problem. The public budget deficit was initially 6%, 5.7% next year and 6.4% next year. For the fourth year, we have been in breach of the Stability and Growth Pact. It is true that other countries have violated it, but all other offenders, with the exception of Greece, Portugal and Cyprus, now have public finances under control, within the framework of what is allowed, because they have reformed and invested in a less burdened business environment. What about Slovenia? We're arguing about saving, and saving hasn't even started yet. We are arguing about a wrong neoliberal policy, and we have not yet smelled liberalism. We're arguing about special pensions, and soon we won't even be able to pay regulars anymore. If I look at a few cases that are confused by basic logic and, in truth, love, there is no European who would understand it – a means for education. Does anyone today hope to expose, step forward and say that Slovenia's secondary and higher education system is better than it was decades ago? It should be logical, as education funds have only been rising for 22 years, but we are still reading professional interviews in which educators point out that the general level of knowledge has fallen, that the difficulty is falling, that we are comparatively less competitive. Is it really just a lack of money, or is it possible that the rabbit is involved in another bush? We clearly do not distinguish more than between investing in knowledge that will achieve added value and investing in knowledge only on the budget line. Are we aware that the resources for education in the budget are the same as those in 2008? I fear that the educational lobby – by the way, these are the ones who, at every time of this part of the budget, start shouting and screaming – do not worry about the quality of the education of our children. They are well aware that money is only one of the factors in this area, and an even more important factor is the teaching approach, the introduction of more modern, newer ways of providing knowledge, the ability to motivate students. The old rule that I'm afraid is even more applicable in our country is that until the financial tentacles are closed, you can't expect change. Once again, the education system still has at least as much money as it had in 2008. Either at the same time we can't work anymore or there may be a problem that we have the most enrolled students per capita, but at the same time a very low proportion of those who are also graduating. That we are not even talking about any planned study policy in relation to the actual needs for staff in the country. Today we are educating young people to apply for employment. Internationally comparable indicators of the quality of the education system, with the exception of a few technical colleges that achieve excellent results, are steadily falling. Also general education and even literacy. Is that really why it's all about the lack of money? I'm sure there's still a lot of reserves, not just on wages, on the number of employees, on top of the student, and everywhere else. This has been confirmed by many professors, assistants, students. Ladies and gentlemen, students from you and us are expecting quality. But these can't be bought exclusively with money, they're all different. As long as the funds for this purpose are the same as in the most successful year of this country, citizens and citizens can certainly expect more from the education system. The second observation, which is in no way understood by the Slovenian People's Party, is the scope of the European funds envisaged in the budget. When we heard evidence of the over-ambitiousness and overblownness of this part of the budget, we were more than shocked. In the five years leading up to the beginning of this year, we have managed to absorb only €1.3 billion or a good 30% of the €4.1 billion of European cohesion funds available to Slovenia in the 2007-2013 programming period. Only 30%. For such a realization, in every normal country, heads would fall because, according to the dynamics of the previous government, almost EUR 2 billion would be left in Brussels. Today, ten people are actively working days and nights to try to draw as much as possible by the end of 2013 when this perspective runs out. Today, some are quite frankly surprised at why we planned to spend billions and 100 million euros in 2013 and 839 million euros in the 2014 budget. Because very simple mathematics says we have no other choice, otherwise we will leave a billion euros of already negotiated money in Brussels. At a time when we lower child support, when we are forced to raise taxes, when we are forced to lower wages, you give us an overly ambitious pumping plan. You're showing us optimism. Instead of stepping together and taking from Europe what Europe is offering us. Yesterday, we got another tip about the union statement. They're countering the budget. They're going back to fighting to ensure workers' rights, to ensure social equality, to fight capitalism, to fight savings. Tell me, are these the same unions that own one of the bank savings banks, which almost a million-year-old profits are distributed regularly among their union headquarters? Then why don't they split this profit among the employees in the store? Why don't they split it between the boards of directors? After all, why don't they split it between their members? Finally, they also exist because of their members and their membership. Why did two members of the board of directors split 350 000 euros in last year alone, while trade unions are fighting for social equality of workers? We are also taught about labour justice by some who share higher incomes than Members, ministers, as well as many executives of successful companies. Do we even know what this union movement is in a developed country? It's a movement for a better worker tomorrow. In Germany, Austria and elsewhere, workers are willing to step back because they know it means better tomorrow. There's no hope for us, no one's looking at tomorrow. Various lobbyists, who today are pleased, are fighting for today, for today's existing privileges. It doesn't matter to them tomorrow. How much longer, I wonder. There's something else to say. In the Slovenian People's Party, the alternative solutions offered by opponents of our work do not convince us. Talking about mega-Romanian projects, billions of state investments, talking about the taxation of capital, which has been reduced from year to year – it looks like we are not living in the same century. All we're waiting for is for someone at the next election to perform only with a miracle pill that solves all the problems in a moment. More and more citizens – which according to their paradox – are looking forward to the arrival of European aid when there is no agreement as a country to get rid of this situation. They are thinking that it is better to start from the burning ground than to get tired of such blockades and beatings for a while. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have thoroughly checked what the arrival of the so-called troika means, someone who in exchange for the current liquidity of the state will set conditions. It is likely that citizens do not know – this threesome will not see whether there are too many employees in the public administration, nor will it look at what standards are in kindergartens, whether they have earned it or not, or whether someone has paid 35 or 40 years in retirement. No, they work much easier. They know very well that the central part of budget spending consists of three key categories: social, pension and public servants' salaries. The guide will be simple: a reduction of all these expenditure by 20%. Then our disputes will be about who earned the pension, who didn't, who in the public administration works and who didn't, totally on the side track. This is the reality and in the Slovenian People's Party we decided to pour pure wine to people. We tried this years ago when we supported some reforms and we are trying this today. Without change, there will be no change and no step backwards, without correcting the systemic errors that we have accumulated as a country over the past 10 years, we are facing a very sad scenario. To say that workers did not cause the financial crisis is very easy, but it was neither caused by German workers nor by English or by workers in Sweden, and they did what we are arguing about today. They have reformed and put their public finances in order. We really avoid blaming anyone for their backs. All these years, we have promised the European Commission the regulation of state finances, and no one has been able to do so with political courage. Today, those same people who have failed to respect the commitments that have been borrowing credits that have been preparing budgets with huge deficits are, on the other hand, claiming to be safe opposition parties are shouting about wrong policies. Following the election of President Holland in France, Slovenia was flooded with slogans about how things are served in the left option, with socialists. You won't believe it. The French President is dealing with a reduction of the budget deficit today. Unbelievable, isn't it? Maybe that's why the stories about the French well-being got colder. That Slovenia is at least about the right path, it has shown the latest issue of dollar bonds. At least there was a ray of hope. Something that's been building for months can collapse in a few days. If we had an alternative to reducing spending years ago, the whole credit potential to focus on decommissioning the economy and improving the business environment, unfortunately, this money is no longer there today. Today we must first save something so that we can turn these funds into economic growth at all. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When adopting the budget, we always transfer the available money from one item to another, but we all agree that we can't spend more than we can do. Let's stop blinding ourselves to some other formula. In the Slovenian People's Party we have been assessing for some time that there is enough populism and demagogism. I will not determine whether the budgets for the next two years are good or bad. But we do know that you are adapted to today's situation. From this point of view, they are real because life in the clouds is slowly over. We need to pursue reforms because only these bring jobs and a better future for our craftsmen. There will always be people who won't change after all. Today I can only say that whoever has had a few years in 2007, 2008 and has at least that much today, if not more, and is not satisfied to wake up as soon as possible, otherwise he will wake up to a nightmare. We have been aware of this for some time in the Slovenian People's Party, so both budgets have the full support of our Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Prevc, you have disregarded my recommendation and the warning to all parliamentary groups that we stick to the presentation of the views of the individual parliamentary group, without accusing individual segments in Slovenia. Your position was, according to my personal assessment, and also at the discretion of some Members who warned me to accuse trade unions, including some other representatives of the savings offices. You have also talked about this – and I do not think it is right to go to the level of an individual as a person as a person – that whoever does not wake up as soon as possible will wake up in a nightmare. I do not think that this is an appropriate presentation of the position of the individual parliamentary group, but rather this is your personal position. This is my assessment as chairman of the meeting, but we are moving forward. Proceed, please, no shouting. Please proceed procedurally, Mr. Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I didn't scream at all, but I just volunteered in this drawer that was to be heard and not overlooked. That's all there is to it. I am surprised that the last two discussers, on behalf of the Group of Members, have made such comments and take almost as much time as my colleague Prevc had to present his position to the Slovenian People's Party, but you have not previously warned anyone, even though he has intervened indirectly or directly. What my colleague Prevc said, he said about unions and in general. He wasn't talking about his last name. If I were to represent my position, I'd probably end up like, "Dear God, give him a happy trip to Cyprus." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u23	Mr. Puksic, you have violated the procedural proposal. What was your procedural suggestion that you wanted to go to Cyprus or something? Was that your suggestion?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u24	You're being warned, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u25	I recommend to you, Mr Pukšič, that at the meeting of the National Assembly – you have been elected by citizens and citizens – you are correct to all citizens and citizens, including those who will not go, as you may be, to Cyprus. We're moving on to the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u26	Your parents are going to Cyprus, not us, yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u27	Here you go, Mr. Prevc, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, I was so shocked by your implementation that I did not propose a procedural proposal immediately. I demand that we review the magnetograms of previous presentations of positions and place this item on the College's agenda, where it should be clearly defined how someone has discussed who has offended anyone. For, Madam Vice-President, these accusations are at my expense, in my position as a member group, which I have presented, in which I have not personally offended anyone – I think these are serious insults. I therefore demand that we define ourselves in the College on this. Why did you not give these instructions earlier, in the beginning, when the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups began? You only gave them to me. Madam Vice President, I've been following them, and I've been following your instructions. If you represent a position, you need to touch all the segments and all the stakeholders involved in the topic we are talking about. I demand that this exercise of yours at the College be opened, that we look at all the magnetograms, including my predecessors, who represented the positions, and that the College take a position on this. In the final stage, I also want you to apologize to me for this performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Prevc, I must tell you that you have violated the rules of procedure in a number of cases. I may have said too harshly that you violated him, but in some ways you overstepped him a little. Even though you are the leader of the parliamentary group and I respect you, I apologize if you have felt any harm. But as chairman, I can only tell you that I was able to warn you when I started conducting the session. I did not monitor whether you were in the hall from 9 a.m. until 9 a.m. until 10.57 the meeting was chaired by Dr. Gregor Virant, President of the National Assembly, and he was deciding who might need to be warned when presenting his views. In the implementation of Mr Bojan Starman, when he began to scream somehow and the case seemed to be incriminating, I decided, well-intentionedly, to warn you kindly. Once again, when I hear a statement in the presentation of the Group’s position that someone should wake up as soon as possible, or wake up in a nightmare — I do not think such a sentence is appropriate for the Assembly Hall. But don't mind me if I'm a human being, a man who understands people, and I don't allow ourselves to go beyond the level of debate in this room. But I respect you, Mr Prevc, as well as all other colleagues and colleagues, coalitions and opposition, we are all alike. We're continuing our session. Procedurally, please, Mr. Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u30	Respected and respected! I propose that we end this pointless debate. The Vice-President of the National Assembly should have warned the speaker who was acting abusively. She did, but unfortunately she interpreted a number of other things. I suggest we calm our passions and find out that we are here for the amendments to the budget. We go to the budget, not the manifestations of mutual respect and love, self-labelling for the people's tribunes. Let's get to work. These are the amendments. We're here and we need to talk about it and decide. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u31	Wait a minute, you'll get your word right away, Mr Jerovšek. Mr Frangež, if I understand you correctly, your procedural proposal is to proceed. If it weren't for your proposal, we'd be moving on. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u32	Madam Vice President! You're obviously up on your left foot today. Please be aware of this in the future. I have listened to the last two presentations, and I find the comment on your part to Mr Prevc very inappropriate. I was even more surprised that you thought Mr. Starman was screaming. I've never heard him scream before, and I'm longer with him in Parliament than you are, a mandate longer. He's not yelling. In such a way that Members are not allowed to express the fundamental right to act, that they are critical – they are shouting outside the demonstrators, but they are justly shouting and that is their right as long as they are shouting. They have a chance to scream and they can scream. I didn't hear those two speakers screaming in here. I really ask you to give yourself a reminder — this is my procedural proposal — to yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, I will not warn myself, but I have seen that you have reminded me, and I accept every admonition that is in place and correct. We're moving on. We have concluded with a presentation of the views of the groups of Members and a joint introductory presentation to the supplementary draft budgets. We are moving on to a debate on each supplementary draft budget separately. We continue with the 1st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the 2013 supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a debate on the supplementary draft budget. We will discuss individual parts of the supplementary draft budget and the amendments tabled. As an individual part, for the first time, the general part, secondly, the specific part and, thirdly, the development programme plan shall be considered. Before we go to the debate, I would remind you that the total time of discussion is 8 hours and 5 minutes and that it is divided between individual Members' groups, unrelated Members and representatives of the national communities and the Government's proponent, and we stick to it. We are moving on to the general part of the supplementary draft budget. Anybody want to talk? I see interest in the debate. I'm opening an application for debate. The application shall be made. Nine panellists have been reported. The first one has the word "magic." Damjana Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. All present Members and Members of Parliament are well-welcome! At first, I'd like to say the following. I welcome the constructiveness of the opposition and the coalition in yesterday's debate on pension reform. The pension reform itself does not yet mean a solution. It has no stabilizing effects on itself. The adoption of the law alone does not yet mean stabilising the pension fund, which will provide security for pensioners and provide long-term pensions worthy of pension. This cash register will have to be filled, filled and filled first. It will be filled by active, working people, those who will work, who will have the opportunity to work and pay contributions. Employers will also need to be monitored to pay for them. Still, that won't be enough. Remuneration of the pension fund must also be provided from other sources. This government has also prepared measures to charge pension funds from other sources. We therefore consider, and personally, that it is necessary to adopt the Slovenian State Holding Act, which will provide for inflows to the pension register and which will provide pensioners with stable security as well as decent pensions. That is why I believe, and once again in this place, that the introduction of the referendum in these times of crisis, when we urgently need additional resources to fill the pension register, is not in place. Once again, it's time to consider withdrawing the request for a referendum. I think we also need to be constructive in taking measures to raise economic growth, because these two measures, stabilise public finances and raise economic growth, are linked – we all know that and we keep saying that. The government also knows this, you know, the opposition MPs and we know the coalition MPs. I think even those who listen to us know. Only economic growth will give us new jobs to raise the ratio between pensioners and workers. The stabilisation effect will take place only on a case-by-case basis once we have adopted certain other reforms and measures. We've already done one thing, and I've commended that for the pension reform. The reform of the labour market and certain other measures, such as the rehabilitation of banks, the adoption of the budget we are talking about today, the stabilisation of public finances and other measures to boost economic growth, must also be adopted. We've accepted a lot of them. We're going to be a lot of them. This must be our common goal, not the goal of the coalition, but our common goal. As regards the adoption of the 2013 and 2014 budget, it should be noted that this government has adopted economic conditions which were not envious during that period. The former government, as I have mentioned many times, underestimated the problem of public finances and allowed for a public financial deficit. The economic situation in which we are in 2012 and also the prospects for the next two years are worse than originally expected. We all had to face it. This affects the movement in public finances. For this reason, Slovenia is estimated to achieve a higher deficit in the state budget in 2013 and 2014, than in the stability programme, but will still keep it below 3% of the gross domestic product. This must also be our common goal. The planned reduction of the country's deficit will be achieved through the consistent implementation of the measures already taken from 2011 and 2012, the extension of certain temporary measures and the adoption of additional measures on both public expenditure and revenue. On the revenue side of the budget, additional resources will be generated by already accepted taxes, with financial services tax, balance-sheet tax, with an increase in environmental taxes. Some changes in the income system would also mean an increase in the revenue of the budget. The rate of VAT on capital income increases from 20 % to 25 %. This includes a tax on renting of assets. In the case of a corporate income tax, the possibility of transferring losses from previous years to half shall be limited. This is where he saves himself. In the case of an anti-crisis property tax, the threshold for determining the debtors is reduced from a million to 500 000 euros so far. Instead of raising VAT rates to a 20% overall level, alternative measures are proposed, namely electricity and energy taxes, sweet drinks tax, cigarettes, alcohol, etc. The government is trying to find an alternative to manca to reduce the budget deficit. It should be recalled that, in addition to the amendments to the Tax Procedure Act, the publication of tax debtors is also envisaged, which will make an important contribution to greater tax law and to the willingness to pay taxes voluntarily. At the same time, this will also protect taxpayers in business with other taxpayers, those who do not pay. We must not forget the relief that has a positive impact on the favourable tax and favourable business environment. It is worth mentioning the incentive for flat-rate taxation for small businesses, which is a priority in Slovenia. We are all talking about the need to encourage independent entrepreneurs, self-employment, micro, small businesses, including farmers with complementary activities on the farm, to be able to work and create. The incentives already adopted this year are: shift in the middle-class income line, a further reduction in the corporate income tax rate from 20 per cent to 15%, an unlimited tax relief for investment in equipment and intangible fixed assets, unlimited from 30 per cent to 40 per cent, an additional relief from 40 per cent for investment in research and development. While these tax incentives will amount to 200 million less revenue in the budget after a rough estimate, it must be counted that this will return through higher economic growth, as the proposal, which includes the proposed tax changes on the revenue side, including those already adopted by law, and also those proposals that assess the budget revenues, will be raised through the so-called structural adjustment of the budgets for 2013 and 2014. I did it on purpose, even though the Minister of Finance has already said it completely. However, this is crucial and needs to be said again. The government is working and will provide an additional EUR 300 million on the revenue side of the budget. The budget for 2013 and 2014 is based on the autumn forecast of Umarja. Again, the key items of this forecast are the situation in the international environment, the acute situation in the domestic financial sector and the pace of fiscal consolidation in Slovenia. These are the basis and direction for the preparation of the budget ahead of us. However, the outlook for 2014 and 2015 is linked to the implementation of the assumptions I have mentioned. In such a situation and with the successful implementation of the planned consolidation and measures in this regard – if not adopted, the economic activity will stagnate – and with the adoption of structural reforms, the Slovenian economy could recover. That's our common goal, that's the way we have to go together. It's one thing and one thing at a time. There is no economic policy here that would be different for the coalition, for the opposition, or for the German economy, for the Spanish economy. Economic policy is that way, and one day the arrow will turn up, we all know that. We're only afraid of what kind of authority she'll turn up. Once again, only when we adopt all these structural reforms and measures will the Slovenian economy begin to recover will the meal be bigger and we will be able to talk about how we will share these pieces of cakes, bigger and fatter. For the time being, these slices of cake must be cut very hard on thin slices. I would also like people to have a higher standard, higher wages, higher pensions, to be a well-being for all and equal starting opportunities for every citizen and citizen in Slovenia, both for study and for work, and for housing for young families. I also wish, more than a lot of people in here, that we have a rule of law and that the principle of equality before the law for all should be realized. That is why today it calls on the prosecution and the court to sue and to judge within a reasonable time and fairly to all those who have taken unfair advantage and have exhausted the state budget. They operated on banks by obtaining unsecured loans under more favourable conditions and have not settled these obligations, so I also support the Bad Bank Act because it is necessary. We must also take certain measures, not block them with a referendum. Therefore, honourable coalition and opposition Members, we do not waste our power, energy and knowledge, which I think is enough in this space, in this reference, to block and transfer the responsibility of citizens and citizens with referendums. We are the ones who will give people, our voters and voters a sense of security and coherence at crucial moments such as the moment in this economic, economic and political crisis. It is we who must show our citizens and citizens the way out of the crisis. Therefore, once again, respectable opposition and coalition colleagues, Members, let us pool our strength, energy and knowledge for key measures to come out of the crisis, to protect Slovenian sovereignty. In my view, the proposed budgets are not the most ideal, because the times we live in are not ideal, but they are optimal in view of the difficult situation in the country, the economic conditions we all face, both in the economy and in the economy. That is why, in my opinion, without fundamental actions, even in the public sector, we cannot promise economic growth. The tasks assigned will be achieved by internal reallocation, reorganisation and freezing of new jobs in the public sector, and will certainly demonstrate the efficiency or inefficiency of public sector management. In view of this, I express my support for the proposed budget proposals and the additions. I believe that the Ministry of Finance has taken into account the current economic situation and forecasts for the next two years and has adapted the State budget accordingly for 2013 and for 2014, which will lead to a reduction of the budget deficit below 3 % of the gross domestic product, despite the reduction of the funds. This must be our common goal, respected opposition and coalition Members. Once again, let us show unity in this important document or documents. Let us show our citizens and citizens that we are united! Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. It's not true, but it's what we all have to listen to, but with these calls for unity, I'm glad I did. When I listened to Minister Visiak in Odessa yesterday, he said exactly what I was talking about when we adopted the pension reform – that the deletion of the 408th article and the so-called cleansing of the pension fund is something that will be realized on other routes. That's what the minister announced. What you have drawn out in Article 408, will happen in 12 other laws. I supported the pension reform because I supported the pension reform in 2010, which was better, and it would be irresponsible of me now to oppose it when it is only getting worse with every move. So much for this unity to be demonstrated. When I listened carefully to the views of the groups on the draft budget, I must say that some of these opinions make some things more clear to me. If I turn to one of the opinions that highlighted how an individual economic initiative should be adopted, even if it is at the expense of environmental protection, because the economy is important. That's not how you do it. Because responsible policy has to count on the consequences that individual decisions will have for the society as a whole. Protecting the environment is something we are responsible for, and those famous Indian thoughts about how we got the land on a plate from our grandchildren, at first I didn't mean to quote you again. The second thing that defeated me was a flat-rate assessment of the state of Slovenian education. It has been said that funding from the State budget for education is constantly growing. That's not true at all! I remember the time of prosperity and the first term of Ivan Janša, when we kept reminding that the share of GDP for education was falling. I will provide further specific information for the continuation. Next. But you don't think that we live in an incubator and that we don't read what foreign economic experts and representatives of foreign institutions, important ones, who you like to refer to. They found that the requirement for strict savings made over the past two years was a mistake because strict austerity measures did not yield the expected results. I will end here and I will not talk about saving at this general level. But it is true that the austerity measures have been horribly cut into the sphere covered by the mega ministry, but it does not surprise me if I read Mr v.d.'s quote. Director-General of the Higher Education Directorate, who says, "My logic is that institutions must not be hungry, but are minimally hungry to be driven forward." Yes, I would say that some women continue to interrupt the trough, and those who are at the trough – and Mr Director is – will already take care of those who are close to him. Remember that the Slovenian proverb says that the whole crow is hungry doesn't believe. Here I have Eurostat's latest data for 2012. It would be interesting to tell some information that we will see where we are, how we are, and what we are tearing down. My logic is not like the logic of Mr Rončević, my logic is that what works well in the country does not need to be overwhelmed, not broken, not destroyed, but developed, especially when it comes to developing the most vital part of Slovenian society. By saying that humans are our only wealth, we allow these people to develop their abilities and talents. Now let's see what's going on with these numbers. Look, we're going to cut everything in education on average because we want to destroy this sphere, because according to the part of the coalition, at least to those who have been expressed, in education, there are some negligent, non-experts who don't have any analysis, who don't know anything, they just draw money, nothing else, they're annoying. But what do the data say? That we are a country with one of the lowest rates of rash within Europe, these are those who leave early education. We have one of the highest percentages of the population involved in secondary education. We're in third place from the bottom up by looking at the data in seven-twenty. When we talk about how much – because there is a lot of talk about how little work is done – we have students per teacher, data is 16.7. This is primary education, and it's better than 20 countries. After the level of education, I have already said that we are highly classified. If we look at how many students we have per thousand inhabitants, we're not exactly high up here. We have 381 people per thousand, and that's the information I'm talking about that we're in 20th place. Watching us take care of learning foreign languages puts us in seventh place. It's two foreign languages. I could especially talk to you about the proportion of those who learn English, German, or French. If we look at the expenditure on education – the data is covered for 2008, because they are comparable for all, you know, in 2008, you said the year of prosperity, but we said the first signs of the crisis – we are after the proportion of GDP among the 27th in 24th place. If we looked at the share of public education costs, there was 5.82 GDP in 2003 and 5.22 in 2008. So much for not reducing the share of GDP for education. It is true that what you like to stress is a low percentage of private, but when we go to European comparative data, when we look at how much public funds are for public and private, the data is cumulative and I cannot say here that Slovenia would be extremely high. In the case of the proportion of the population with higher education, we are 14 years old women and 15 years old men. This applies to education between the ages of 30 and 34. That means we're talking about a generation of younger ones. If we covered data for what is usually 20 to 65 years old, then we are significantly lower, we are 17%. So much when you talk about how much we have higher education compared to other countries. I could now tell you more details about the relationship between sociology, mathematics, technology, etc. Our data does not differ from general European data. Perhaps another information that is extremely good for our country. This is the proportion of those involved in lifelong learning. He's extremely tall, one of the best data. We have, say, 14.1% of the population in men between the ages of 25 and 64, and 18.3% of the population in women. What am I trying to say? We have such a good system of lifelong education, and we are going to destroy it. This ministry hears no calls about how we break down structures, well-established structures in education. We're setting up some new structures that no one knows how they're going to work. We demolish independent research institutes like the Pedagogical Institute. I can tell you all day long what we do in education to get him blown up. I don't think anything will convince you, because if you were to add up all the hours we've been discussing higher education, science and research, you'd get an impressive number, but the effects are that we're still cutting. I hope we can at least support some kind of amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs. Patricia Shulin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u38	Madam President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! Initially, I would like to start with words and a view not to lighten us or draw graphs where we are will not help us to get out of this crisis. We must be aware of the responsibility we bear at this time and we must do much more than we have done in all the years so far, also to maintain democracy as a state and society. This is just the beginning of a look at reality. When you are as an economic society in the real economic market, the global market in which Slovenia is also, then the demagogologically chosen sociological words of trade unionists do not help. You survive there or you don't survive with good projects, a careful economy and a lot of knowledge and effort. When this budget began to be produced, the Government, which swore in February, had only found the weaknesses of the legacy we had received. The legacy was in much worse shape than we could have imagined. The money available to us for the 2013 and 2014 budget is known in certain numbers. In these figures, ministers had to agree first in this range, since all 8 resources are important for this country. Even if the money is less, all 8 ministries had to first agree on projects, visions and targets for how many ministries would receive it. At the outset, this government has established a very broad consensus of communication with huge stakeholders, with the Economic and Social Council, also broader with students, with individuals and also with parliamentary groups, not only ours, but all those who are here. I think we are taking all civil initiatives and others that want to present their problems to us, and so is that. However, the money that we can distribute among the 8 ministries is, as I have already said, in a certain number and beyond that cannot be done. If you're going, you've got to make an extra bet. We can see where the debt got us, because we're all in this together. The government is acting responsibly, one step at a time. She complains in the nine months she's been in government, she can't do more than she's done. Economic trends cannot be reversed, as we are part of the European global world and around us are countries on which we are economically, economically and otherwise dependent, so that we are in a circle together and we must act in such a way that we do not cancel ourselves again with debt. Looking back a little bit, from 2009 to 2011, despite the fact that revenue did not increase and the crisis was already present in Europe and has been resolved, despite budget deficits from year to year, expenditure did not decrease, although it was known that expenditure did not increase and that it would not increase. Despite walking the economy, budgetary expenditure has not adapted to this state. Moreover, the number of employees in Slovenia in the economy declined and the number of public servants increased during this period. To look a little more positively at the situation in which we are, if we can look at the budget in this part - I think it is right. According to my assessment, the budget is responsible and with the goal and hope of a better time to prepare and respond now with measures to get there. The budget has increased in one part in certain sectors. It's not about reducing and cutting everything. It is important to say that, for example, in the field of health, investment funds for 2013 and 2014 have increased, so that some projects have been initiated before. The funds are also intended for oncology and radiotherapy at the University Clinical Centre in Maribor, for the Clinical Department of Hematology in Ljubljana. There is also some money for other things that our health care and hospitals carry out. In terms of expenditure, it is part of the measures already covered by the Public Finance Balance Act and also in some other laws already adopted. Unfortunately, we have an ambitious and responsible package on two of the key laws in this package, the rehabilitation of banks and the Slovenian State Holding, announced a referendum. That the Government has also listened to those who have warned that a selective increase in the rate of value added tax should not have been allowed at this time, the answer is that this law has then withdrawn from the procedure and this manka will try to obtain it in some other way. It is also very important to draw on European funds. This has already been mentioned several times today, and it is right to repeat that this is a very important segment of revenue for us, because our economy creates as much as it creates, so billions of EUR 400 million is very important to us. The realisation of drawing depends on a number of factors, on investment documentation for infrastructure projects, etc. Investments will increase by about one percent in 2013 and something else, so the increase in the lines for entrepreneurial investment and also for European funds for which reinforced pumping is envisaged. I believe that we will also be able to draw on European funds in this area and prepare the documentation that is needed and is a condition for this. The legacy is bad, it has been poorly worked on in the last few years, and it is essential that teams that have already been exposed, accelerated and over the years, do everything they can to draw on these European funds. Regarding the creation of an innovative environment in Slovenia, it should be stressed that in this area Slovenia is highly ranked among the other countries, but is low on the attractiveness of the business environment and the rigidity of the labour market, which we have tried to correct through labour market reform. Step by step, all the weaknesses of our country, our legislation and the state in which we are, with great responsibility, must be brought to some real life. I don't want to look away when it comes to brain draining, about young unemployed, young people who are highly educated and also experts who are not so young anymore and who are leaving our country elsewhere. I hope that we will be able to make this innovative environment attractive during this time, so that these people who are now abroad will come back to us again. Also regarding the resolution of credit crunch-related problems and the so-called bad bank. It is also important and crucial to me that this list, which I hope will come to, or by law on a bad bank or in any other way, be publicly condemned for economic crime. At this point it's very difficult to do it quickly. It takes time for all of us, and I hope that there will be a hurry in this area too, because citizens expect us to make these associations, which are criminal associations and are among us, famous. Some of them are already, but I think there are a lot more of them than just those things that revolve around in the media and are mentioned. It would also be useful to mention the area of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, as the investment funds envisaged here are almost doubled compared to the 2011 and 2012 financial years, so that investments will occur, which also provide jobs, jobs and everything else that is involved. European funds will also be used up rapidly in this area. At this Ministry, the field of rail transport and infrastructure is emerging. The most funds are foreseen, as we have already heard, for the modernisation of the existing Divača-Koper railway line and the reconstruction of the Prague-Hodoš railway line and for the regulation of all other crossings on the mentioned route. The funds for the agricultural and environmental sectors are also increasing in the global area. Thus, €60 million is allocated to rural development measures and €35 million for the stabilisation of agricultural markets, as well as for sustainable water use and waste management. The fear that nothing will happen in the investment area is superfluous. More detailed figures are in the budget or have been presented by individual ministers for their ministries, but I think it is right to point out again that the picture is not so black on all segments. For the end, a short walk along the euro area and something about economic growth assumptions in our most important partners for 2012, 2013 and 2014. If we look at Germany, Italy, Austria and France as our nearest euro area, we can look forward to finding that economic growth is rising already in 2013 and that economic growth is already quite promising in 2014. If we take and maintain all these measures taken by the Government, with some tolerance and calm, then not only do I hope, but I also believe that we will get closer to this economic growth in 2014. But together, both the coalition and the opposition, we need to look at it realistically, and we can also critically, at this problem of ours, each one from its own perspective. Thus, every debate today is still welcome. We must all stand together for fairer criteria, for the creation and use of what you are as Slovenians fairly and justly, even in the light of the needs of individual sources, we divide ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u40	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! Am I satisfied with the current situation? Of course not. All I want to do is give and take nothing from anyone. This is most likely what we all want and want together, but simply when we make up the budget, we also assume responsibility for bringing revenue and expenditure as much as possible. If we demand more for a segment on one side, on the other hand, that means less for the other segment. It is no problem to say that we give more for research and development, but we just have to tell where to take it. Does that mean less for pensions? Does this mean less for the salaries of public servants? Does this mean less for social transfers? Does that mean less for investment? It is only necessary to make a very clear decision and we must act in this context. My colleague Potróta said, "I don't think we'll be able to convince you." I think it's not so much about what someone can convince someone, but what our abilities are. We're going to share all the money that's going to be collected in the budget, plus some extras that we're going to borrow. All the predecessors and many others have talked a lot about what it means if the supplement we borrow is too big. It is necessary to be honest about these things and to say them as they are. As for the general objectives and the reduction of the deficit below 3% of GDP, we are doing absolutely nothing but what the previous government has promised. I am not going to debate which government is more responsible for, but what is not, but who is, but I want to tell all those who are today discussing for a long and wide how it sucks, how everything sucks, how it is that we meet what was promised a few years ago. The many who are sitting in this room today have been Members of that government. When you discuss these things, please don't forget. We can look at each thing on two sides. Each thing has positive and negative qualities. It is understandable that the opposition is trying to represent exclusively negative things in this budget. There is nothing wrong with this, it is according to the Slovenian work of the opposition, but nevertheless I would try to present some positive thing. In this budget, we allocate more resources for investments. The Minister said that there would be more €600 million in this investment budget than in the previous budget. Isn't that the thing that Positive Slovenia's been talking about all the time? I think so. We taxed the companies less, we taxed the companies. Isn't that the kind of thing that the Chamber of Commerce and entrepreneurs say is too burdensome for Slovenian companies all the time? We're the ones who unloaded them. We have increased investment and development incentives so that companies will have some of these if they invest in development and investment. We also unloaded the middle class, if I may say so, of our citizens. This is some of the things we have done in this budget. The question is often asked in the public: "Where and how will you collect income or taxes from luxury, what have you done about it?" Stronger vehicles are more taxed, most likely to have slightly more wealth, more taxed vessels, more taxed on luxury houses. We have added a new income scale for those who earn more than EUR 67,000 a year. I know we're all swinging or swinging with your hand, but the facts are that, the luxury is more taxed. Given how these revenues are collected and how many of these things are in Slovenia, we probably all know together what will be the proceeds. My colleague Bratušek, with whom I very much like to argue, and I think that this is also an integral part of the parliamentary debate, said earlier in the introduction everything that is wrong and how we could do something. If I, as a Member, try to argue with the opposite arguments, this is not right for the opposition, and the opposition Members will nominate that I am wrong. So I cut out a newspaper article that wasn't written by the coalition, but by one of the financial commentators. All I can do is read the address that says, "The Bumblebee is cleaning up budget bullshit for Križanič and Bratuškov". I didn't make that up, that's not my words, that's the address. So, in these things, I think it takes self-criticism, one way or another. When we talk about the mass of wages in the public sector, how and in what way our public sector suffered the crisis or what happened to our public sector during the crisis. I will not think about it, these are not my own opinions, but I will show you – but perhaps you have managed to read it – the report of Umarje. I believe you trust Umar. Umar is nice, with graphs showed and proved that if you look at the rise in the costs of the Slovenian public sector during the crisis, you see that more or less of these costs have been increasing all the time. On the other hand, they have been reversed on average in the European Union and the public sector costs have been reduced during the crisis. There is a lot of dissatisfaction, a lot of criticism when we are trying to put some of the burden of this crisis on the public sector. I understand that this is the case, but some, particularly in the private sector, have already done so, and it is only now in the public sector. In the meantime, Jakič suggested, say, what about higher education, research, etc. I think this is also a relevant debate and it is necessary to look nominally at how much is being put into this sector. Then sometimes the views of these numbers become slightly different. I will continue the debate later, because I do not have this information at this point, and I want to say it exactly. I will now think about it, and I will call back later, but according to the information I have, the nominal amount for higher education will not go down compared to 2008 and 2009 this year. This is specific information. I'll see if I've made a mistake and I'll apologize. Like I said, I don't have this stuff in front of me, but I'm gonna check it out. I kind of think that all the essentials in this part are what I wanted to say, and I'll call back later.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Respected and respected! In the context of the general budget debate, I will discuss the part of the budget that is linked to the functioning of justice. Justice is not a specific part of the budget, but rather a concept that includes the functioning of the courts, the prosecution and, in part, the police. These are separate parts of the budget. The judiciary is also a self-sustaining budgetary user, but it is clear that there is a significant reduction in resources in all these items. As with others, you will say, but the fact is that in these very important areas of leadership, both the Attorney General and the President of the Supreme Court and others point out that these institutions do not have the means to function properly by the end of the year. Those who attended or listened to the Justice Committee were able to learn in detail these problems and eyewitnesses. Something has already been corrected in the meantime, and this needs to be said, but the fact remains that, in particular, the prosecution and the judiciary are subject to a significant reduction in funds, which will have concrete results – I will tell you later what – and this seems a major problem to me. Indeed, these institutions operate in an area called the rule of law. The rule of law, as the protests have shown lately, is something our citizens have seen as the most problematic in the functioning of our country, not only in the last few months, but for several years. These institutions are the most affected by the functioning of the rule of law. As its strategic objective in a document called the Coalition Treaty, this coalition has highlighted a real improvement in the functioning of the rule of law. She also talked a lot about this in the pre-election hearings, and in this way she probably gained a lot of voice by showing solutions that would improve the functioning of the rule of law as easy and achievable ones. This is not the case, but it is essential, and this touches on today's debate that adequate material and financial conditions must be ensured for the functioning of these institutions and that, given everything that is going on, it is necessary to consider whether the area of justice is a priority where it should be considered as much as possible to keep an eye on the way in which funds are falling. If I go back to the objectives of this coalition, on page 34 of the paragraph or in a chapter called the rule of law, this coalition wrote that the judicial branch of power — that is, the first objective — must remain independent in the trial, invited to cooperate to restore the reputation and authority of the judiciary. He also says, "We will contribute ourselves to this authority by unconditional respect for judicial decisions." I will not go to the point that both the President of the Government and the Minister of Justice have repeatedly, as well as the Minister of Justice, made a negative comment on the question of wrong decisions, the open-ended illegal decisions of the judiciary, which has been explicitly said that it will not work, but I will only touch on this point that cooperation with these institutions does not mean that they are not taken seriously in the negotiations to determine the budget, so that their proposals are not taken into account. And these are proposals that are financially valued, which represent a savings of €11 million, which would almost destroy the manna that these institutions have. They are not taken as true partners in the negotiations on the budget, although this is a separate branch of government. The second objective set by the coalition in this chapter is, as they say, "The aim of the judiciary is to remedy the five years of judicial backlog, with no greater efficiency being achieved at the expense of the quality of judicial decisions. The standard deadline for the resolution of ordinary judicial and criminal cases will be six months at the first stage and three at the second. When this goal is achieved, we will set a new, more ambitious one." How will you achieve such ambitious goals by reducing your resources is unclear to me. The Presidents of the courts, the District, District, Supreme Court, pointed out that in the judiciary the reduction of funds is directly linked to the reduction of the effectiveness of these institutions. If we look at their budget, we can see that 72% of the budget is the salaries of judges and other staff. As we know, the judges' mandate is permanent, and it is not easy and impossible to forgive judges. Let me say that the Lukend project, which was adopted by the first government of Janez Janša and then Minister Sturm, who has often been highly praised by the coalition, has caused additional – it is said that I do not have accurate data – I think about 120 to 130 new judges in our judicial system, which is already so well known in Europe since we have the largest number of judges per capita. Such an increase in the number of judges that took place in that mandate is directly linked to the need to provide salaries to these judges under the law. If wages are to be provided, the budget in this sense is burdened and you will somehow have to cover it. For the remainder, 28% of the budget – I speak for the judiciary – and the other 53% already cover judicial costs. The costs are directly linked to the judicial proceedings relating to the fact that the court can act, including on experts, including on lawyers on official duty, to ensuring the presence and everything else necessary for the judiciary to be able to act as normally as such. Here every intervention means what the President of the District Court and the Council of Justice have warned that after two months, after one month or more, he is reducing money to the courts. The rest is some material expense. I can tell you from my experience that there has been no luxury in this area in justice for many years. What calendars, what maps, what leather notebooks – this is the past. Almost 15% is covered by free legal aid. In this crisis, this costs continue to increase unsupervisedly and it is very difficult for every government to anticipate, but at the same time the government has not yet listened to our calls. I asked the question that in a certain part where BPP is not needed, for example, for the costs of legal persons in insolvency proceedings, consideration should be given to amending the law. In this budget, it is very difficult to trim it without being directly known in the courts. The same situation is also in the prosecution's office, where Mr Fischer points out that human resources simply does not have enough people to cover all matters. My personal opinion is that the most responsible situation in the field of the rule of law is the prosecution, including the judiciary, of course, but the problem has been for many years, and this is highlighted by many experts, particularly the prosecution. This is also seen in recent procedures. In order not to speak very broadly, our opponents like to be concrete, the prosecution has been somehow associated for many years with your State Secretary, Mrs Brezigar, who was the Attorney General and many years at the top of the prosecution. The objectives in this area have been the same for years and years: to reduce the number of economic crime, to reduce the number of organised crime, to do it, and unfortunately the results are not visible. Each court will have measurable objectives – objective number 3 – and the key responsibility for achieving the objectives will be given to the Presidents of the courts, who will be responsible for the implementation of their mandate. It may have been well - intentioned, but if there is no money for the courts to act if there are not enough people, if there are not enough typewriters, it is said that 480 people will be forgiven in court. How will the poor president of the court, and I don't care which one, achieves his goal? Is this going to be a convenient excuse to get rid of the presidents of the courts that don't suit us? The following is Goal 5: "Operational capacities of the police and prosecutors will be stimulated and motivated to work effectively in the most demanding forms of crime." First of all, why haven't you done this before? Secondly, if motivation means lowering their wages, not giving them enough money, not giving them material conditions for work, then I really don't know how you imagine it. Let me once again point out that our country is a problem in the field of organised crime and economic crime, where extremely well-trained professionals who know the field are needed. Expecting people with such knowledge who are so threatened in their work that some judges and prosecutors and their families will be kept as security guards after two years — if you think that people will do this without being paid for it at least somehow, then your ideas are unfortunately not real and we will have problems in this area for many years. Target 6 is: "We will transfer the competence of the State Prosecutor's Office to the Ministry of the Interior and better link the state prosecutor's office and the criminal police with more appropriate organisational solutions. This goal is, I have already said, a lock, 100 % in the first month, a real goal. I could still count it. You've been very specific about amending insolvency legislation, etc. It does not touch the budget, so only the comment I make many times that these strong changes in procedural and substantive legislation continue to have a significant impact on the efficiency of the judiciary. I will conclude by providing both the judiciary and the prosecution with a number of concrete options to improve their budget. The Court assessed the optimisation of the network of courts with an 11 million savings. For years, they have warned that something needs to be done in the field of postal services, since the courts alone cost 12 million per year. They cost a lot of storage services, a few million, etc. Proposals for improvement have been submitted. I'm finishing up where we're going all the time. The coalition says it is necessary to save and, God help, cut everywhere, etc. I say that the rule of law is one of the most crucial areas of our country, which produces a great dissatisfaction of people. Therefore, you who are responsible should assess whether this is such an important priority that savings here need to be reduced and optimized in the work of these institutions, or can be resolved in the same way. Then we must not be surprised that the situation remains the way it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u44	Your Honor! Today we are talking about a austerity and not a development budget, which is almost logical, given that the basis of this budget is based on a bad legacy. We're making up a budget out of the remains and we're making up what can be put together. However, that is precisely why, ladies and gentlemen, incomes in the economy and in households are always lower. However, the cost of living remains almost the same or even higher. We should be a little more cautious and slightly more able to take compromise decisions and listen to both the social partners and the experts and us, the opposition. The fact is that gross domestic product is falling, exports are falling, the social situation of people is deteriorating, and this leads directly to a deeper crisis or recession. Noting that the importance of effective governance is prioritisation and enforcement in terms of needs and financial capacity, I note that the 2013 and 2014 draft budgets are not based on those priorities that ensure the stability and sustainability of public finances. There is much talk about balancing public finances and little is done. Only cuts and austerity measures shall be implemented. There is no movement on the revenue side because the government has not yet realized after a year of government that only austerity measures cannot count on improving the poor financial situation in the country. All the government has so far been able to present is the intention of selling state property and additional debt, particularly for the rehabilitation of banks at the burden of taxpayers. However, there is not much going on with regard to concrete measures to start the economy, despite the loud calls made by economists and opposition parties. All together, I sometimes feel and feel that the Government does not realize that without the production and creation of new jobs we can only dream of the stability and long-term sustainability of public finances, not to mention the long-term sustainability of urgent reform measures. You're too strong and too strong in your language. With skilled political rhetoric, at least some of you have succeeded in seducing people for 21 years with promises of prosperity. Therefore, all those who call upon us to come together in times of crisis, instead of threatening us with a threesome, citizens and citizens, not just us, the opposition Members and Members – let us step together! Let us listen, listen to each other and take compromise decisions and actions through dialogue, as we did yesterday with 100% support for the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. This is an example of good practice. But why was the support so perfect? Because Minister Vizjak is such a person, with a social sense, and he was able to listen, unlike some pretentious people who think that they are sent from God to rule on earth. It's not like that! It is necessary to land and listen and to make sober and smart decisions with compromise. Let's balance public finances, raise economic growth! The coalition advocates austerity measures and the opposition and its entire economy advocates development projects. The Development Programme Plans show that you have pushed ever-increasing projects from the framework of this mandate, this reference, after 2014, even 2016 and so on, even 2020. Today we would need to launch infrastructure projects, not tomorrow and tomorrow. Certain projects at local level have been moved in 2013 or more towards 2014 due to local elections, as these investments will then buy the votes of voters and voters. This is how it is designed and so I understand, not because of this budget today, but because I know how everyone at local and national level behaves or how we behave to politics. In the coalition you defend the raising of excise duties on energy, and in the opposition we warn you that this will only put an even greater strain on the economy. Just taking, without creating conditions for development and economic growth, is not consolidating public finances. Unfortunately, this is my opinion and the opinion of many who are involved in financial matters. In the coalition, you support the sale of state property and additional debt, especially for the rehabilitation of banks at the expense of all taxpayers. In the opposition, we demand transparency and greater control in the management and trade of state property and the involvement of private owners in the rehabilitation of banks. In the labour law of the government party you advocate flexible security, we advocate safe flexibility and greater social security for all citizens and citizens, no matter who they give their vote to in the elections. You advocate selective education, we advocate public education. Knowledge, we will all agree, is a generator of progress. Without the knowledge, we'll just get even more entangled. If he keeps saying that contradictions attract each other, then we're directly created for each other. Therefore, let us take advantage of the opportunity of all those who have given us their vote in the elections, because of all citizens and citizens, because of ourselves and those who are increasingly difficult to bear, and because of all those who have been driven to the streets by the crisis and the austerity measures and the general distress. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Shircelj mentioned earlier that we need consolidation of public finances on the one hand and the start of the economy on the other. If this is as I said before, then the solution to this complex formula is to unify ourselves, to step together and to make the will of all those I mentioned earlier, we make exclusively compromise decisions – the power of argument and not an argument of power. Government measures are almost diametrically opposite to ours, so we should seek not a golden rule, but a golden middle, because the solution is in the golden middle. Where there's two fights, for God's sake, there's a third profit, and someone in this world has a profit at the expense of our arguing and our bickering. That's why we need to be aware of what we're doing. Respected and respected, let us prove to ourselves and to the people that the fate of this country is not decided by politicians who have already reached the level of their incompetence. We do not have problems with brain draining in Slovenian politics, but we do have problems with brainwashing and brain evaporation. That's my conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Minister Janez Šušteršič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me to respond to a few key points or comments, comments that have been made on the draft budget, in particular in the context of the presentations on the views of the groups. First of all, I would like to say something about the obvious that the government has no economic policy. I think that the Government has a very clear economic policy, which is also thoughtful and works simultaneously in several areas. The first problem, the first situation we started dealing with at the beginning of the mandate, was the budget in force at the time, the projection of more than 6% of the deficit and the consequent breach of the country's commitments and the violation of the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact programme based on the established surplus deficit procedure against Slovenia. Therefore, for the first few months, as you know, practically the whole government devoted itself to preparing a rebalancing for this year. With this, we have reduced this year's deficit. I will talk about the various deficit assessments later, but the fact is that we have reduced it and the fact is that this reduction is credible. Regardless of whether there is a minor difference in any number, everyone today sees it as a successful reduction in the deficit this year. We continue this policy and propose a slower pace with these budgets in the coming years. Reducing the deficit – if we went close to 3% this year, we are only going below 3% in the coming years due to the economic situation. We are slowing down the savings rate that was foreseen at the time when we were adopting the balance sheet, which we were also reporting at the time, due to the economic situation. This is part of economic policy. The second part of economic policy is the reforms we are adopting these days. Some were accepted or accepted by the National Assembly in September or the first week of October. It is a law on holding and a law on resolving the problem of bad banking claims. As you know, both laws are still required for a referendum, they are not yet established and cannot be implemented. Yesterday a pension reform was adopted, and labour market reform is likely to be adopted in a short time. These are important reforms. By what we did at the beginning of the year in the area of the budget and what we are continuing with this proposal, and also with reforms that are partly adopted, partly in some kind of blockade, in some delay, we have ensured that we can continue to finance our needs. If we did not do so, we would be in a situation today where we could not even plan such a deficit or be dictated by others to what extent we can. The second part of economic policy is economic measures. In the presentation of the budget, I talked about significantly higher investment expenditure, and I talked about incentives for economic activity in the tax area. These are important measures. Moreover, what I believe is crucial for the start-up of economic activity in the coming year is a successful solution to the problem of poor banking claims or balance-sheets and, in this context, over-indebtedness of the economy. We know where we are about that. The referendum requirement shall be considered in the Constitutional Court. This is crucial, without it there will be no end to the credit crunch, and without the end of the credit crunch there will be no opportunity for a major expansion of economic activity, no matter what happens in an international environment where companies could export. If you look at the economic situation, they indicate a drop in exports. This is certainly not the result of savings, but is due to the inability of companies to finance their business in banks, even when they have a market for it. The third element is attracting foreign investment. It consists of two components. One is the simplification of the economic environment. This is not so much the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, so I will not tell you much more about this, but you know what measures have been taken in this summer package to promote the economy. The issue related to attracting foreign investment is the sale of State shares in some companies that are privately owned or not in the dominant ownership of a country for which, at least for some of them, there is an interest. You can monitor this on your own all the time, but here we wanted to make these procedures easier, simpler, more transparent. This law is now under some kind of referendum requirement. With regard to economic policy and its philosophy, I would like once again to point out that there can be no dilemma of consolidation or growth in Slovenia. Public financial consolidation, at least to the extent that we have carried out it this year and planned it over the next two years, is a condition that the state can finance its needs at all, that it can finance its budget and is a condition for obtaining some credibility, not only for those investors who invest money in government bonds, but also for those who invest money in businesses, because they also watch the country's credit rating. Even when the rating of banks and major economic debtors is assessed, the creditworthiness of the country in which these economic operators, in particular banks, operate, is an important element in the assessment of their creditworthiness. It is therefore impossible to imagine that a country that has too many deficits would not fulfil its obligations while having an economy that would easily finance and expand its activities. It goes with each other. When we talk about these international debates, it is very clear that countries with major public financial problems that do not do what is a general objective do not consolidate public finances, must do this task irrespective of the dilemma, whether public-financial savings have a short-term negative impact on economic growth or not, because with a little longer perspective this is the only option that exists. Countries that have already done such consolidation, such as Germany in recent years, or countries that have not had such major public financial problems at all – in these countries, the issue of savings or growth is much more relevant. As I said before, these budgets suggest that the pace of deficit reduction in the coming years is calming, including due to the dilemma between fiscal consolidation, public finance balance on the one hand and economic growth on the other. As far as the various deficit assessments are concerned, I would like in particular to clarify a little more the different methodologies that exist. In this country, budgets are proposed, monitored, accepted and implemented on the basis of actual cash flows. When we talk about the deficits of the central state, including with both cash registers, when we adopt budgets, we are talking about this deficit. When I say that we are planning a deficit of 2.8% of gross domestic product next year, I am talking about this deficit. In the European Union, in particular by monitoring the reduction of the objectives under the Stability Programmes, a methodology based on the accounting principle shall be applied on the principle of commitments undertaken both by the budget and by those who pay in the budget. In this area, an informal assessment was made in the autumn. This assessment is based on data from the Ministry of Finance and published by the Statistical Office as well as the European Statistical Office. This assessment at the time referred to an indicative deficit of 4.2%. That's what we heard today. This was then an assessment based on movements in the first two quarters of the year or the first two thirds of the year. I said earlier that the budget balance this year, as far as income and expenditure are concerned, will not be necessary. What's open is the question of recapitalisation. The big question is whether the loan we gave to the New Ljubljana Bank this year will be included in the deficit or next year or never, as we understand the methodology in this area. This will not be decided by the Ministry of Finance, but by our Bureau of Statistics and Europe, because fortunately we do not have a system in which the Minister of Finance would make his own balance sheets to assess whether he has achieved his objectives or not. This is what independent institutions do. When there will be a deficit due to the loan to Nova Ljubljanska Bank in the form of a purchase of conditionally convertible bonds, it depends on when and if there will be any change in these bonds to capital. I have no reason to believe that this will happen this year, which means it is very likely that this exchange will happen next year. However, if there is any other solution to the bank's recapitalisation in the meantime, this deficit may not happen at all because there will be no final gain of the bank's share. As far as this year is concerned, we have talked about this when we adopt the rebalancing, and this has also been stated that after this the so-called ESA methodology will be followed by a system of European deficit accounts around 3.5% of gross domestic product this year. The estimate of about 4% is probably the most realistic at this point, and this is about the one that was made informally in the summer. According to one structure, this is likely to be quite different at the end of the year. Officially, this information will be known, as some of you know, in April next year when the competent institutes publish it. As far as next year is concerned, our aim is to reduce the gap between the cash flow deficit and those arising in accordance with the accounting principle, mainly because, with the exception of the resolution of the banking sector, these recapitalisations will be smaller or virtually non-existent and fewer cases will increase this difference. I think next year we will be able to narrow the gap between the monetary deficit of the budget, if I say so, and the accounting deficit, which means that we will also bring it closer to 3%. As far as the question is concerned, whether what we have proposed regarding the recapitalisation of banks is a one-off solution or not. I have repeatedly said that it is difficult to talk about the recapitalisation of banks being a one-off solution if we do this every year. Just because this was done every year and because there were no obvious results, we proposed a different approach. This approach means, simplifiedly said, that we are trying to recognise the whole problem in banks at once and suddenly solve it, with an intervention. We've never denied it. That is why we have also written and proposed a special law for this measure. This measure means that the State will once again definitively determine the extent of the problem of bad claims in banks and address them through one single guarantee measure via a specific company and solve them outside banks. This quickly leads us to banks that have cleared balance sheets that can increase lending activity. On the other hand, we get a mechanism to deal with corporate over-indebtedness. If this law is enforced in the second year and we issue these guarantees, this will prove to be a significant increase in the deficit in one year. This possible increase in deficit is already included in the debt growth projections previously presented. We are talking about about about 10% of gross domestic product, but we always say that these claims will also be cashed, that insurance will be cashed and that state shares in banks will be sold. All of these are also by law, which the National Assembly has already adopted, possible or envisaged sources of financing for the resolution of bad bank claims. There are many reasons, I have been talking about this for a long time, that we can say that in the end, when we draw the line in five or more years, practically all the debt that will be invested in bank recovery will be repaid. Once again, I would like to say that this has now come back to light in the context of the budgetary debate that the way we have proposed has been chosen to resolve bank claims, more expensive. This is not due to the fact that the only difference between the way we proposed and the way someone else proposed or advocated is whether we save bad bank claims outside banks, at some special institution, or whether we save them in banks. If we decide on one or the other approach, there are no bad claims, no more, no less, just as many as there are. If banks formed their domestic bad banks – by the way, the law that is now in the referendum allows and enforces this possibility, and may not be established – and bear bad claims on them, the state would probably give a guarantee for these bad claims, otherwise it has not done anything. If I were to give a guarantee for these bad claims, then I should give them just as much as she will now give to the bank management company, because, as it is said, the bad claims are, as far as they are, whether they are in banks or are being transferred from a bank. Once we decide that the state will provide guarantees for bad bank claims in order to clean up bank finances, these guarantees are the same regardless of how we decide. But if we don't decide to give these guarantees, then we can continue to give capital to banks. Some of this will be necessary in these operations, but less. If we were to put only capital into banks now, banks would write off these bad claims this year and next year and in two years and three years, and eventually we should put as much capital into the bank as we will now guarantee these bad claims. Recapitalisations that would have been required without a guarantee for poor claims without shielding bad claims in order to be excluded from normal bank balances either in banks or outside banks would have been required at the end, as much as the bad claims would have been written off. Poor claims will be written off as many as there are, regardless of whether we recapitalise or transfer them. Finally, there is a capital cost of claims that will be written off, which will not be cashed in the current value. Either we cover it with recapitalisations, direct ones, or guarantees — it costs the same thing because the problem is just as big. It seemed to us, and I still think it is very wise, that it is better to give guarantees that the state can repay by selling this property than to put capital in some institutions where the state, although the owner, does not have a direct chance to manage them. I think it is right that the Minister of Finance is not, in addition to being the Minister of Finance, the Director of the Bank for the Surface. But that's why it doesn't make sense that he owns this bank. The third issue that has been discussed, and this is the last thing I want to say about it, is the issue of a fiscal rule. We have made new simulations based on recent economic results or forecasts that have worsened, as we know. The question is whether we are acting in accordance with the fiscal rule or not. Let me first tell you what these predictions showed. As you know, because we have often explained this when we proposed a fiscal rule, the fiscal rule is designed to allow a deficit when the economic situation is poor. Due to these deteriorating forecasts, not only for this year and for the next year, but also after a slower recovery in the coming years, which is foreseen by the various forecasts of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, it was estimated that a deficit of more than 300 million public finances would be allowed in 2015. When we talked about this in the summer, I think this number was significantly smaller. I'm not going to say what kind, but a much smaller one. Almost 330 million, as I have written here, is almost 1% of the gross domestic product. Even if a fiscal rule were adopted in the Constitution, as we have proposed, in 2015, due to poor or not excellent economic conditions, slow recovery, we could still have a 1 % deficit in public finances. If we adopted the fiscal rule as we suggested – I am not saying that it is the only way to accept it as we have proposed, but I am talking about what we have proposed. At that time, it was suggested that, for the first time in 2015, we should draw up a budget in order to respect the fiscal rule. I think we will all agree that from here where we are today, it is not too difficult to get to 1% of the gross domestic product of the deficit in 2015. What we have yet proposed to be enshrined in the Constitution is that in the period until 2015 when the fiscal rule enters into force, the Government should propose budgets by drawing closer to that objective. That's exactly what we suggested. Let me just say two numbers. For 2012, we found that if we already had a fiscal rule and we should fully respect it, then the deficit in 2012, after what was proposed in the initial budget, should have been – we would have had almost a billion differences. We are now reducing this difference to half with the proposals of this year's rebalancing and the budget proposed for next year. In 2015, I think that additional measures that would not be too difficult could lead to compliance with the fiscal rule – a deficit of approximately 1% of gross domestic product. That's what I was talking about. This year we are going with a budget slightly below 3%, and next year even more, and then in a significantly better economic situation than today's 2015, we would have made this additional effort and would have been around where the fiscal rule would have ordered it. So there is no big difference between what we have proposed as a fiscal rule and what we are now proposing as a draft budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I will not be able to support these budgets for 2013 and 2014 because they are not development-oriented. Every good master knows that he is smartly spent in the crisis and that he is making a thoughtful investment. Every child knows that when he doesn't, he can't save, and I don't understand how we're going to save if we don't. We'll spend it wisely. That is why a plan needs to be made, so every effort must be made to get information from others and not just to use what you think. I believe, Your Honor, that you have good intentions, but your actions show exactly the opposite. Last night we all adopted a pension law together, especially because we listened because you believed that we also had something to say. Today we accept the budget, which is the most important document this year, but you have not been able to listen to the opposition, not to trade unions, not to students, or to many experts, and act like you are alone in this world. That's absolutely not good. The proposal ahead of us is a grave intervention in the field of education and poorer conditions in kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools. At the same time, you want our university programmes to be competitive with foreign people, and you do not spend enough resources on them from the budget to survive. A total of 20 million are running out of universities to implement their programmes and the Bologna approved programmes that should be implemented. I really don't understand you. If you have so much to do with the means and the money that your direction shows, then I would expect you to do everything you can to make money. This year, when you run the government, I see no movement to get new jobs, new programmes and projects, new investments to fill the state treasury. Economic growth is falling, despite your promise to grow. Under your authority, we have produced an even greater loss, reduced GDP, increased the number of unemployed, and among citizens you have aroused or sowed fear and uncertainty. You're jeopardizing research and scientific work. Dearly beloved, the proposal that is here ignores all that is, to which we are reminded, and what we have drawn in all our years of independence. Even though you have promised not to interfere with the normative part in schools and schools, somehow from behind you want to visit this sensitive area through the Law on Community Financing. I believe the budget can't be perfect. When adopting such important and difficult materials as the budget, we need to be careful. Above all, we need to look out for the most vulnerable groups, such as children, the elderly, the disabled. It's not like you're here to intervene. I don't know if it's your new paradigm that it's precisely the most sensitive groups of people that need to be pushed so hard. Government arrogance introduces uncertainty and unrest among people, which inhibit creativity in all areas, especially in teachers, professors, scientists, academics and consequently in children, students, students. All the suggestions and warnings of experts and also our voice are like beans in the wall. I get the feeling that some people don't give a shit what the opposition thinks about it and all the people I've mentioned before. I don't understand the minister or the coalition. It's proven to be good if we cooperate and listen to our ideas. It's not just ideas, it's also experiences and advice. There was a lot of talk about us getting together and I don't know what else. We sat together, we talked, but you didn't accept anything, you didn't want to understand that someone was thinking well, thinking for the benefit of the citizens who gave us the votes. All of this proves that you have been emotionally and spiritually cleanly melted. I can't imagine the rejection of laws such as the Law on Personal Assistance to Disabled Persons and the amendments with which we want to keep the educational standard for children and youth at a civilised level. You have rejected these amendments on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. How should our young potentials and scientists, researchers, students, with knowledge of competing peers from other countries be? How can our science be competitive in the world if it is increasingly being respected? Today we have heard that our school is bad, and we know that our researchers and scientists are recognized in the world, among the most recognized in the world. Interesting. Such a bad school. By confirming this budget, you will give the public a message that for the Slovenian government and the coalition majority of education is a second-class topic. That's not good. That's a bad trip. You know, the Slovenian proverb says that intelligence is better than velvet. This was not just said, it was not written to appeal to anyone, but it was actually a state that proved that the mind could not be controlled. It's probably the core of the problem here because you and the government want to control people. If there's a lot of sense, it's a lot harder. People, citizens and citizens have already found that you are not in line with these tasks and tasks that you should carry out. As a result, we have recently witnessed that individuals and certain civil organisations, which mass-organise various humanitarian events, are taking over the country's tasks. They help people who are in trouble to survive in the day, week, month, and year to be rescued from this desperate state. Last time I was on TV, I watched the dancers walk in together and paint one of the hospitals. I know examples of parents, teachers, and students doing various maintenance work at schools. As a result of austerity measures, I fear that it will go even worse. I am reminded of this by directors, rectors, deans, many experts in teaching and social sciences. They also warn students and parents. It's not that simple. I therefore suggest to the government - today we have heard a lot of this and in these months we have experienced - that all public workers who are just a cost to you retire immediately. Pensions will be substantially lower than wages, retired educators, teachers and other public workers will raise and guard children in the light of charity and prepare charity, education and other workshops. With this, you will certainly be respected in the coalition and will save the government funds so that your chosen ones will be able to manage and spend them. That's how most of the tycoons you've been hunting so unsuccessfully today got money under some authority. There is a lot of talk about how to prove who is the one who has intervened in privatisation, while at the same time reducing the funds for justice, having an impact on the prosecution, etc. The proposed budget can only be acceptable to you, following a new paradigm that people have already felt strongly and are standing up to it loudly. I hope you will understand their anger and opposition in time. Your orientation is humiliating for citizens and citizens. Parents cannot pay for meals and individual educational programs, even though they are employed. You want to suffer an abnormally large number of children in kindergartens and deny the youngest the fundamental right to safety and appropriate professional treatment and attention by professional workers. Errors in education and education in childhood cannot be addressed. Even when we find ourselves in a situation where there will be much more money when we live in abundance, these mistakes will no longer be resolved. That's why we're warning you not to do this. Such interventions and reckless actions are truly unreasonable because they are directed at young families, children, and the most vulnerable population. There is no way I can endorse or accept such a draft budget. With the amendments that we have proposed in Positive Slovenia already on the Committee on Finance and have not been adopted and will be proposed again, we would only mitigate your cruel intentions, which go in the wrong direction. You're going in some direction, but we're warning you this is the wrong direction. Just like that, by delaying the signing of the contract for the construction of TES 6 you have produced more than 30 million losses. With these 30 million we could pay or cover the costs of the Bologna program and meals for primary school children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Darko Jazbec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Especially a nice greeting to the Secretary of State, Mr Zivkovic, because his health is somehow closer to the topic. Now I want to talk about it and it's nice that it's here. At the Ministry of Finance, you're very fond of numbers, like a scalpel surgeon. There's a patient behind the scalpel, but there's content behind those numbers. In the field of health, it also ends with the patient, however mathematically speaking. We know the health situation. At this point, we're talking about a financial flood, almost all hospitals are at a loss. A third of the health homes that haven't been home in the last year are in a loss, the health deposit box is empty. This budget does not reflect this problem. In other words, you probably have some other solutions because sometimes the budget somehow compensated for these losses and gave financial injections where necessary. If we go back to the numbers, I'd say that over excise duty on tobacco, you get about 440 million alcohol a year in the budget. From the Institute for Health Insurance, VAT, Income, Specialization and Tertiary, the budget will be further refined by an additional EUR 300 million. So around €740 million comes into the health budget. You are ready to give out 111 million for 2013 and 104 million for 2014. With this number, given what I have heard from some coalition Members today, I would like to stress that the 54 million increase has no practical value. In fact, it's not a promotion, but you're just returning what you took from the balance once. But that's not the problem. Let's see where that money goes. For unfinished investments, which is good, because they are really unfinished and European funds could not be drawn if the money is not earmarked for this. It also aims, interestingly, at poverty. You assume that poverty will increase next year because it's probably true. More money is intended for the health care of the unprotected and socially disadvantaged. But there's no more money for treatment. There are more sick people to be expected, certainly not less. After the disease stock, we are already at the summit in the European Union. 5% of people are in the hospital stock every day. As far as the public health programme is concerned, this is a disaster if we look at the budget. For the next year, you allocate good 10% less to public health programmes. All studies over the last 4.5 years have shown that countries that have been in crisis and have devoted less to public health have returned as a boomerang with higher health costs. This means that you are essentially infuriating health care with this measure. I'm hearing about saving today, but that's health. I don't know why we don't want to learn from the experience of others. This has been demonstrated by studies by the European Observatory for Health Systems and Policies in cases of countries that have already been in crisis. I think it's to believe. It seems kind of religious to me that you believe what it isn't and you don't believe in science or studies. That the matter was even more bizarre, you made no one's land. Let me explain. With the amendment of the Health Act, you have merged the regional institutions. The public health sector does not now receive the money it produced on the market from the market share. In the budget you have reduced the item, but the withdrawal of this money is from the market. So I don't even know what will finance public health. I can say that now that we are in December writing New Year's cards, we can write: "Happy New Year 2013 and I wish you a lot of health, because the 2013 budget does not allow you much treatment." This budget does not reflect that health is of any value and that it should be seen as a priority. The recommendations of the World Health Organisation, not the recommendation of the European Observatory for Health Systems and Policies, have not been taken into account and the expected change in demographic image has not been taken into account. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The State budget is one of the most important documents considered and adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in addition to constitutional changes. The crisis began with us in 2008, even though we did not want to admit it at first. Today, according to some experts, we are in the fourth phase of the financial, economic and social crisis, which is reflected in the difficulties in ensuring the financial liquidity of businesses and, above all, of the country. Before that, we had a third phase of the crisis, which began with the fall of the pension reform in June last year and stepped up with some irresponsible statements by representatives of the current ruling team that Slovenia is on the verge of bankruptcy. The consequences were direct. The price of money has increased for the country, for the banks and consequently for businesses and citizens. During the crisis, there were also several strategic mistakes. One of the major ones is the collapse of the building giants SCT and Primorje. This is where the banks have been denied, and the government has not shown sufficient understanding for the recapitalisation. The negative consequences of the bankruptcy of the Primorje are today significantly greater for banks and the country than they would have been if they had helped him. I'm afraid it's too late to ring the bell. I only hope we've learned from this. Today, between 24 million and 25 million people are unemployed in Europe. In the last few years, a very worrying process of unemployment growth has also occurred in the United States, and all of this is due mainly to the fact that industrial production from the European Union and the United States has moved to Asia and other regions where cheap labour has been. Thus, today, individual countries or regions in some European countries are completely out of industry. The classic example is England. We cannot be all bankers or waiters, the fact is that we cannot all work in service activities, so it is essential that we maintain industry and industrial production in both the European Union and Slovenia. How important the resources for education, research and development are in the state budgets, not only with us, but also elsewhere in the world, I will illustrate with the following example. Professor Gabriel Crean of France pointed out at one of the Brussels development conferences that a whole system must be built in the real sector from development to patent and in the final stage to production. If we look at one segment of the development of new products and their production, we get scary data at global level. Number of patents: 27% in the US, 32% in the European Union, 38% in Asia. When we look at the production of this particular product, the differences are enormous: in the United States 0%, in the European Union 1% and in Asia 87%. Asia has patents and jobs today. The fact is, the United States of America and Europe have moved production to cheaper areas, but the loss of jobs has therefore been high. It is necessary to re-produce at home, in the United States of America and also in the European Union. In the United States, President Obama has already launched a new paradigm, production back to the United States, which is already showing results while we are still on the ground in Europe. This is why development banks in the European Union, Slovenia and also the European and Slovenian budgets need to stimulate science and development and the production of new products and to restore and preserve Europe and Slovenia as one of the leading global producers. In spite of the bad times and crises, I can also illustrate the case of the Idrija-Cerkljan region or the Idrija-Cerkljan industrial pool, where we have global corporations such as Kolektor, Hidria and Eta in Cerkne, where there are virtually no unemployed. In Cerkno the lowest unemployment rate in Slovenia, I think there is about 2.5%. Also in the administrative unit Idrija is unemployment among the lowest in Slovenia, so also in these times of crisis to make a success story. Of course, if managers focus on development, not on owning their businesses, and that is the main thing. Therefore, the country should also invest in development in particular. Unfortunately, these items, including in the 2013 and 2014 budgets, are being maintained. In early November he was Minister of Mag. Radovan Žerjav in Lower Idrija opened a new development institute within Hidria. One year ago, such a development institute was opened by the Collector in Idrija. These are companies investing in development that expand production both in Slovenia and beyond its borders. All of these positive cases need to be carefully studied and learned from them, because in Slovenia too in these times of crisis there are many things to be done. After all, the previous government has allocated almost €14 million of development resources from the state and European budgets to these three companies, and the budget has also encouraged the development of Slovenian companies. It is interesting, for example, that before 1990 in Slovenia there were about 4 000 500 development engineers who were employed in the Slovenian industry and in the middle of the 1990s there were only 400. This is why the National Assembly, at the initiative of the Government in 2000, adopted the so-called Technology Tolar Act, which was aimed at financing development, hiring development engineers and promoting projects in the Slovenian economy. Today we also have European funds available and the key priority of this government should be to improve the use of these funds, as this is the only real fresh money for development and investment that we so urgently need. I think that it should be precisely for these reasons, which I have just mentioned, that the 2013 and 2014 state budget should be more focused on development and development projects. I have tabled an amendment to the 2013 budget relating to the maintenance of the indemnified portion of the Idri mercury mine, the monitoring of closures and mining damage. This will not save the Slovenian economy, nor will it bury the budget, far from that, but this is an opportunity for a very promising development project. In the event of the destruction of the mine, we can get a very interesting development project. The mine in Idrija was the second largest silver mine in the world. This year, along with the largest mine in Almaden, Spain, they joined the prestigious UNESCO World Heritage List. In Idrija, between 6 and 10% of the world's mercury reserves still exist. When the mine closed down or when a decision was made to shut down gradually in the mid - 70 ’ s, the price was $90. For ecological reasons, the production and use of mercury have been abandoned. Although today the price of a cylinder on the open market is $2,000, there will be no more production and use in the European Union. Today it is used only in Mongolia, China, South America, for example, Brazil, etc. In 2005, the European Union adopted a Community strategy on mercury, which prohibited the use and trade in mercury from 2000 onwards. Since 2009, activities have been under way within the UN to conclude the UN World Convention on Mercury, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been actively involved. These documents are related to the opportunities Slovenia has, as we can exercise exceptional knowledge and experience about the impact of mercury on human health and the environment. At the end of 2009, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision on the liquidation of the Idria mercury mine. Since then, a number of activities have been under way to continue and regulate the legal obligation arising from the Law on the Prevention of the Effects of Mining in the Idrija Mercury Mine. After the destruction of the mine, care will still have to be taken to maintain the indemnified part of the mine, monitor the closures, repair the environment and mining damage, and ensure the management and maintenance of the cultural, natural and technical heritage associated with the Idrija mine. I said earlier that this heritage is on the UNESCO World Heritage List. On the basis of the Law on the Prevention of the Effects of Mining in the Mercury Mine, Idria will be implementing by the end of 2012, by the end of this year, a programme for the maintenance of the unspoiled part of the cave, monitoring and mining damage. This was a programme that started in 2008 and will be completed this year and adopted by the government in 2007. The mine has prepared a programme for the period 2013-2017 which is substantially sub-valued in the budgets for the next two years, 2013 and 2014. This item has remained, but this will not be sufficient for the full implementation of this programme, so I have also tabled an amendment. Mining damage is a legal category based on mining legislation. The mining damage is paid for all the damage caused by the thousands of years of mining on infrastructure and facilities in the city of Idrija. This item was also part of the 2012 budget and was then halved by a balance sheet and the Ministry of Finance measure stopped the implementation of the budget and the payment of mining damage. People saved the environment. For example, in a particular case in the city centre under the protection of Unesco, a group of tenants repaired a monumentally protected facility. They have invested their money, they have expected some of the mining damage, the thing has been restored, it has been done, and now they are no longer entitled to this money because the implementation of the state budget on this item has been suspended. Another thing that's connected to the opportunity I'm talking about. When it comes to the liquidation of the mine and this company, it is a matter of transforming this company into a public institution. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision last year as a condition for entering the list of World Heritage Sites at UNESCO and established the Center for the Management of the Heritage of Living Silver Idrija. This decision alone is not enough. This institution should now be put into operation. It's basically a transformation, not a new institution. It is not a new entity, but merely a matter of transforming the company into a public institution, as it will continue to be necessary to carry out all the legal obligations undertaken so far by the mine and to take care of the technical, natural and cultural heritage and to monitor the closures. This mine will never be completely closed, and it will have to continue to be maintained because it is located just under a city of 6,000 inhabitants, unless the state decides to build a new city and move these 6,000 people, which I do not believe in. Therefore, this institution will be able to care for what is legally required to be cared for. In this context, the previous government established the Live Silver Information Research Centre in 2008. In Idrija, we have a very clear new development project that can be created on the basis of the extraordinary heritage of a former world-renowned mine. I expect this government to take all measures to transform the company into a management centre as soon as possible, which was one of the conditions for entering the Unesca list. Otherwise, we may be threatened with deletion from this list, which would be a great disgrace to our country. In addition, I propose that the State Election adopt the amendment that I have tabled in the 2013 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I ask my colleagues whether anyone else wants to discuss the general part of the supplementary draft budget. I can see the hands, so I'm opening an application for discussion. Please sign up. The word has magic. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye! "If Šuštersič gives in, there is no help for us," one of the Slovenian economists wrote in his comment last week. I believe in our Minister that he will not give up and that he will continue the path of consolidation of public finances. As far as these discussions and euphoria are concerned about savings, I must point out that this government, although I support it, has unfortunately not saved anything. However, it has reached a step towards a smaller debt and therefore has my support for the future. A balanced budget and a deficit below 3% of GDP are of value for the National List. This is the only way to get cheaper debt and a way out of the crisis. Everything else at this point is a pitiful illusion. This draft budget pursues the objective of or maintains the commitment to the deficit in the Stability and Growth Pact, which is the main reason why both draft budgets will be supported. My vote for the budget is also due to the fact that we are spending 600 million euros more on investments. I am pleased that they do not overly reduce the funds to the municipalities and that an agreement has been reached with them on a mere 3% reduction in the average. Here I would stress that municipalities are the basic cells of the local community and that, if mayors working for the good of people, they are the agents of development in individual regions. I am a vocal advocate for the more even development of Slovenia. Today, when we listen to a lot of discussions about which area, which policy needs more resources, I would like to say or highlight that today in the Slovenian countryside there is a constant practice that if a road, a water pipeline, is being paved in one village, in the past, our citizens have co-financed it. What's in the city, in the urban centers, a stop for our citizens, in the countryside, it's not. There are no protests and loud debates on this subject. Despite the criticism of this budget, if we look at the cut of EUR 9.6 billion, we can see that the largest share, 16%, education and sport, is going to go to 13% of the budget malch to pension protection and 11% to social security. What saddens me or is the burden of the past is the service of public debt. The fourth item is this item and this practice must be discontinued. I'll discuss the amendments that have been tabled later. If I start with the thought of a respected Slovenian economist, I will end with a quote from the poems of the Zagorjean pensioner. That's how she defined her feline in her simple song: "Christmas, if you have anything else valid, please put your mind into their heads..." – with this she meant us, politicians – "that they will spend only as much as we will earn with our work and not impose debt on the five tribes." The 2013 budget follows this thought of the pensioner from the valley of Zagorje and also has my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Pavlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u56	That the budget is unrealistic, we have already heard that it has at least 300 million holes. Don't make it look like cheap demagogies or populism, but the budget can be solid, bad or worst. I could say he's the worst. This would not be unusual if we did not destroy quality public education, quality health care, quality preschool education, etc. If we want the State Malha to satisfy all the categories that draw from it, more will have to be done on the revenue side. You've heard that a number of times today. It is also true that it is not unusual to say that more than money comes in, you can divide it. That it does not come enough, we have been warning since the beginning of our term of office. Why? Because, nevertheless, you have done nothing on the side of economic growth, economic growth and competitiveness, so that the economy can raise more money and thus fill the state treasury. As we have heard from the economists, they are missing the rule of law. Even in recent media cases, we have seen that the rule of law is almost dead. I call on Minister Plitschanic to work. The general findings on infrastructure are as follows. Is the budget impenetrable — intentional or because of ignorance? All major infrastructure projects, for which we repeat as parrots that are a driver of economic growth, are suppressed by 2016 and beyond. You answer that because there are no projects ready to draw these funds from European perspectives. Perhaps because you realize that you will no longer have to implement them, because these governments will no longer be. If this is not the case, in view of what has just been said, the ministries should now continue to smoke from the speed and action in the preparation of projects for the next perspective. This should be your excuse today, why not all the funds are exhausted – because there are no projects prepared from the previous, Pahor's government. I'm asking you, are you doing this now? I would remind you that 888 million euros were foreseen in 2012, and you have planned a billion €443 million from European funds for 2013. In the field of railway infrastructure, you will not be building a second track, but you will be restoring local rail infrastructure, although you could be very helpful to the EBRD in the construction of the second track, on favourable terms. For comparison only, in this project Slovenia and Slovenian companies would have as much impact as in building block 6 – do you remember? I quote Umar's publication Drawing on Cohesion Policy Funds in Slovenia in the period 2007-2011: "The budget as a whole has been drained by 32% and 46% in 2011." I quote: "The suspension of the construction of the second track can lead to the isolation of Slovenia as a potentially important country with appropriate logistics infrastructure. The construction of the second track of Koper – Divac is a project of strategic interest for Slovenia as a transit country and vital to the existence of Luka Koper." There are some incomprehensible moves in the economic plan. 155 million are donated to local communities to build local infrastructure. Perhaps more resources could be devoted to co-financing foreign investments, as we have seen in the only successful attempt of this government that many interested parties have applied for the tender, 15 of which met the conditions described and have therefore been allocated EUR 6.2 million instead of EUR 4.5 million. With this, we hope you will bring 507 new jobs into the country – many. In doing so, you did not think that 155 million for local communities would be halved and one half would rather be given to co-finance foreign investments that would provide new jobs. I think that the local communities should agree with this, because jobs are very important. Economic concerns are followed by the fact that for each of our top experts who makes a brain drain manoeuvre, the country loses the EUR 0.5 million we have invested in its education. If these brains stayed here, they could probably contribute to the country's better economic situation. But they also need to create conditions for work and development institutions and institutions not only to reduce wages and resources. Another example for Gorenjska. 47 million dedicated in 2013, 18 million in 2014 and 14 million in 2015 for the passenger terminal Brnik, from which Gorenjska will not gain much, since the fact that this is a central all-Slovenian airport and has little in common with the neglected mountain economy. In comparison, Gorenska was the most developed region years ago, and today she has landed in the 8th place. You are dedicating 10 million to the Diocese, which will make it easier for the Loka people to drive to Ljubljana and drive around, and for the inhabitants of Poljanska and Selska Valley you will allow easier transport. Unfortunately, these funds will not help them to create new jobs in their environment. For Zgornjesavska valley, I do not see projects in the budget, not for Jesenice, Radovljica, Bled and Bohinj. I'm not going to support this budget because it's tricky.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Ficko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u58	Have a nice hello to you all. The only objective of the government draft budget is to reduce the deficit by playing a game of numbers without a vision. On the expenditure side, this is a tightening of the belt, the beginning of which was already with the ZUJF. The results are known – recession, further decline in the economy, exports and thus fewer payments to the budget. The IMF also notes how austerity measures have an impact on economic growth. On average, GDP fell from 0.9 to 1.7 euros for each euro that was saved. Savings in the public sector harmed the private sector. At the revenue table, you save the budget with EU funds, which is unrealistic and unrealistic, especially in areas where projects are not prepared. There is no strategy which sectors we will be solving, which we are developing, which are priority and how many jobs we are expecting with new inputs. All with the goal of increasing GDP. If we look specifically at the agricultural sector, or the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, which has a poor EUR 816 million, which is slightly more than the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and almost once more than the Ministry of Economic Affairs, we could say at first glance that agriculture or its industries and sectors can pull us out of recession. We will increase self-sustainment with food, we will increase GDP, we will create new jobs. This is not likely to be the case, or at least now does not show that it would be because the analysis in 2010 and 2011 shows that the results on the invested funds are extremely poor. The income of 1.2 billion in primary agriculture is very low in terms of a contribution of about 349 million. We are far behind the average income in the European Union. Indeed, only 42% of the European Union average in Slovenia, and only 26% of the average compared to the EU-15 countries. Slovenian agriculture gives only 2,5 % to the value added structure. On the basis of relatively high values in the budget or investments, measures should pursue the objective that EU spending should be targeted at sectors or product groups with a higher added value, particularly those that bring us new jobs. On this segment on the expenditure side you take money for the work of professional services, agricultural advisers, where there can be about 300 jobs at risk. We can only ask ourselves who will advise direct producers on which product groups with higher added value to develop. Money in agriculture will be spent and not enough. Profitability effects, in particular added value and impact on GDP, will be eliminated. To conclude, the draft budget has an operational implementation plan only on the expenditure side, with savings but not on the revenue side, in a work which should be aimed at economic development and conservation, and in particular at job creation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us the draft budget for 2013 and 2014. The budget reflects the economic, financial, social and fiscal policy of the State. It also shows how much is expected to flow into the state treasury and how much we can all spend together, following the objective of reducing the budget deficit or public debt to 3%. Since the end of 2009, Slovenia has established a Stability and Growth Pact with the European Commission for violations. Let me remind you, the Stability and Growth Pact allows for a government deficit of 3% of the social gross product. Surely the opposition also knows this very well, and especially Mrs Bratušek, who, during the previous government, was the Director of the Directorate for Budget and is thus objectively responsible for the state of public finances that we are witnessing to today. If she disagreed with Minister Križanič's policy, she should draw his attention to the commitments under the Stability and Growth Pact. She also had the opportunity to resign if she disagreed with the Government's and former Minister of Finance's policies. In this place, I express my full support for the proposed budgets of the Republic of Slovenia and support them because the Government is planning a waste that is real under the circumstances and because it is not a list of dreams or wishes that cannot be realized. I also wish that we could devote more resources to education and social services, but I am aware that this is not possible. I'm glad it's developmental and investment-oriented. Today I have often heard how incompetent the Government is, how socially insensitive we are and how Members and Members of the coalition are socially insensitive. However, those who want to see and hear know that government measures already give first results. Let me remind you that in October we recorded even more than €40 million in excess of expenditure. The total budget deficit between January and October this year amounts to slightly less than €1.1 billion, but 633 million of this amount falls away from January and February, when the current Government has not yet had full powers. During the 8 months of the mandate, from March to October 2012, the expenditure over budget revenue was EUR 464 million. During the same period, as we recall, the deficit in 2011 amounted to EUR 833 million, in 2010 to EUR 1.3 billion, and in 2009 to EUR 1 billion. You can see all of this if you want, on the government's side. When you say that we are socially insensitive, let me remind you that for social security in the draft budget we are earmarking €296 million and something else that we spend €610 million on family policy, €533 000 to reduce unemployment through active employment policy measures, that we spend 258 million on transfers to the unemployed in 2013, etc. I, too, wish that we could devote more to society, but first, economic growth must be ensured. New jobs will come with economic growth. Let us not forget that there has been an increase in the number of unemployed by more than 70,000 jobs from 2008 to now, but even more so in hidden unemployment. When you stress so much that the only purpose of taking power is to think about these words, because all the measures proposed by the Government, proposed by the coalition, lead to all of us, not just individuals and elites, ensuring a better and better life. Not today – we never promised that, nor did the President of the Government, nor do the competent ministers. For all of this, dear colleagues and colleagues, I will support the 2013 and 2014 budgets. Let me finish my debate with Tonet Pavček's thoughts: "Do not believe them who say this world is terrible, grave and ugly, it is not true. It's true that it can be even worse." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the ministers, the Secretary of State and everyone else! The budget is an important document in which all eyes are fixed in Slovenia. All citizens and citizens monitor this and some see personal existence in this budget. The budget should be more cost-effective and development-oriented. If I explain, from Europe next year we will receive 1.4 billion aid as income, which is 16% of all budget revenues. With 1.4 billion, we should show all citizens and citizens some specific objectives of how many new jobs will be created, how many new businesses will be created, how much more or less economic growth will result from these 1.4 billion euros. However, this does not appear from the documents. I don't know if it's awkward or anything. These objectives are extremely important and, if they clearly and accurately determine what we will achieve next year with this money, then we are all ready for certain cuts, to a certain saving ourselves. Three packages have been issued at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology; now there will be a fourth, more than 300 measures – this must be seen somewhere. Intermediate objectives are missing again. It is good that every such project sets the ultimate goals for all citizens and citizens to see the light at the end of the tunnel, and it is also good that intermediate targets are set to see whether we are going towards these goals. Out of 1.4 billion, 300 million goes to agriculture, and this will certainly be used next year. For the rest, I am afraid that it will not be used because 1.1 billion spending means already in January to work intensively on all calls, tasks, projects, that most of this will be completed by the end of the half-year and that by September it will be time to collect accounts and prove to the EU how much it has been spent to allow these funds to come into our budget in the coming year. This is extremely difficult and almost unreal. Even if I just handed out this money, I find it very difficult to spend it, a billion 100 million in one year. This public financial responsibility is very unrealistic. We promise ourselves and the Council that we will reduce the public financial deficit to 3% of the gross social product, but that does not work. We are wasting some mistrust, some unreality, both on external institutions in Europe and in the local public. I think that there are not enough anchors, strong anchors, in this budget, so that for next year we can achieve that 2.8% of the public financial deficit. The planned expenditure will certainly be realized, but the revenues are on extremely broken legs. Look, 16% is European – it will or will not be. Then we said 150 million from the pension reform. I don't know where we're gonna save 150 million next year. In addition, private consumption, public consumption, investments in the following year are falling dramatically. That means the purchasing power is going to be smaller. If the purchasing power is reduced, there will be less consumption, as envisaged. There will be fewer taxes collected and, since taxes are made in 2012, there will be much fewer taxes in the second year. The tests are done. A lot less taxes will come into the budget. The only manoeuvre that is is the excise. If excise duties increase significantly, for the first time, we will have a major impact on the non-competitive economy. Secondly, you know how people turn around when certain energy or goods move toward the surrounding area. They're going to tank and buy into neighboring countries. Therefore, there should be stronger anchors in this budget in order to achieve 2.8% of the public financial deficit. It can also now be said that VAT will rise by 1 or 2 percentage points and I do not know what else. There's not much work done on the income side. There is no real effect on economic growth. Although the budget is investment-oriented, these investments are too fragmented, they are small investments across Slovenia. This is more about infrastructure in villages, local communities, which I think is very wrong, because we cannot maintain these infrastructures that we have made now, and if we do a new one, and there will be no new jobs, as planned for next year, to increase the number of unemployed to 120 000, this will be a real disaster, because it will not be possible to maintain it in the coming years. It bothers me that this government, which is now a coalition, has adopted an act with the Lisbon Strategy to make at least 65% of the European funds for economic growth, job creation, development and research! However, from what is in the budget, it follows that more is going for other purposes. It is precisely in this crisis that the state should be aware that it should strengthen human capital! The Ministry of Education probably knows that well. A lot of investment in knowledge, a lot of investment in development and research is a potential that you can take advantage of as soon as the situation in the country improves and you can invest and you already have knowledge. But if you don't have that knowledge, and you can't invest because you need a lot of time to train people to, say, use new technological processes, new knowledge. I think that the budget does not have enough words and money to strengthen the development and research work, especially the network. In Slovenia there are more than, I think, a thousand development and research groups per company with more than 5,000 researchers. If we were able to link this very well with knowledge institutions and applications projects, then we could once again have an extremely large number of innovative products in stock that could be put on the market immediately at a favourable time when investing in technological processes and become more competitive. The essence of the crisis is that you need to prepare yourself for the time when you get out of the crisis, so please support the amendments aimed at making more money for development and research activities, education, training and for strengthening and creating new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u63	Procedural Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I know that we are today accepting the most important document of this government, the budget, but I would not be talking about the content of the budget right now. I am interested – I am referring in particular to the leadership of the National Assembly – how it is possible that, on a subject as important as the budget, the Commission on Intelligence and Security Services will meet on the current agenda at 2 p.m. in the National Assembly. As Chairman of the Committee on the Economy, I know that it is impossible for me to convene meetings if there are two meetings of the home work bodies in the National Assembly and we adhere strictly to that. Today, when we consider the most important document, at 2 p.m. the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services is called. I wonder on the basis of which article of the Rules of Procedure it is possible to invoke this, because I think that Mr Virant or the consignor has exceeded his powers. I'd like to know how that's possible. Perhaps it is by cancelling the meeting of the National Assembly and calling a committee. So I want to know where this power comes from so that we can get other working bodies together during the meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I take it that this is not a problem of the plenary session of the National Assembly, but it is a problem of the Commission. I do not have any information on whose request the meeting of the Commission has been convened, so that this question must be raised with the Commission. But I don't think that can interfere with the work of the National Assembly. But I repeat, this is the problem of the Commission, not the plenary session of the National Assembly. The following of the panellists is Mr Jožef Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! My colleague Han gave me a keynote address. Another colleague of yours, Meh, has three letters in his last name, and he convened this meeting. I thought you said inside, "What's the real reason?" I think the reason for calling the informal meeting is justified, probably. I understand that you have multiple factions in your client and that communication between factions is relatively poor. The meeting, as far as I know, is not so unrelated to the budget and future budgetary expectations and what this country will do in the future. I think they're dealing with what's going on in this country -- which are groups that abuse demonstrations in our country. I think they also agree that people are justifiably critical of us to demonstrate, but this commission and we should all deal with anomalies. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u67	Comrade Jerovšek, we have a general part of the supplementary draft budget under consideration. Please discuss this, or we should take a procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u68	No, no, mate, if you don't understand, this is very much about future budgets. It is very relevant to future budgets [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u69	I believe so, but we are discussing today the general part of the 2013 budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u70	Yeah, I'm arguing my debate with that. I must also say that I hope that the President of Parliament will listen to us. This should be discussed in the plenary this week, this crisis in the country or these demonstrations, because all parliaments of all countries are discussing it. I call upon him to convene this meeting, including the spoils, to send to those concerned, rightly concerned, a message from this House that we will do our utmost to have such a normal budget [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u71	Comrade Jerovšek, this is obviously your procedural proposal. But now I'm asking you to move on to this point. Otherwise, I'll have to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u72	Budgets for the next two years shall provide for a reduction in deficits or a 3 % adjustment. This is not the only thing that is absolutely necessary, but it is an essential step. These two budgets bring these steps. It seems that our Slovenian public is not informed of the direction in which the Government's efforts are going. Even after today's debate, the opposition is somehow giving them the wrong picture. The opposition, you speak today as if the country's deficit needs to be increased from 5 or 6% as much as you created it with your government, to 8 or 9 with additional debt. This is the wrong message. You have ideas – ideas everyone would have – how to increase the deficit in the next two years of the budget by 3% or by an additional 3 or 4%. But that's not going to work. We need to be aware of this, and they are aware of it when they assess and observe us, including the financial and economic factors that look at us from Europe. In this regard, let me read a passage from today's Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung concerning what we are accepting today. It reads: "Economic Slovenia, which in 2004 became a member of the EU and in 2007 as the first post-communist country introduced the euro, is in a decline that has not yet seen the end." The negative economic trend, according to FAZ, could only change in the second half of 2013, provided that the government manages to consolidate the budget, liberalise the labour market and implement further market economic reforms. That's what the government's doing with the budget. It further states: "The most urgent problem is the rehabilitation of the three largest banks, which are still mostly state-owned. The crisis, the artificial construction boom and the financing of acquisitions and fusion of politically well-connected oligarchs, left deep holes in their balance sheets. The re-establishment of normal credit transactions would be a condition for the removal of bad loans from state banks in a bad bank, as the Government has accepted. But the plan came up... – pay attention – "to the severe resistance of the left and the unions they want to prevent through the referendum," concludes FAZ, Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung. This message is bad for our biggest partner, economic and commercial, Germany, at the heart of the European economy, where Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung comes from. This is why, with the budgets that we confirm and complement today, if you have good proposals, we send important messages, not only to Europe, but also to our Slovenian public, which is so mass-gathering in the markets and legitimately and justly protesting. You, too, the opposition, can scream here. It doesn't bother me, it's your right. If a Member thinks he can achieve something, he can stand on his head and scream in reverse. There's nothing wrong with that. But it's wrong to send the wrong messages. Our demonstrators and those who organize and guide them have some wrong messages, wrong options, and perception. When they gather in front of the National Assembly and shout, "The Thieves, the Thieves!"they generalize that we are all thieves. I can argue for myself that no one can tell me one euro in my life. Two times I prevented the wild ownership of the factory and was later declared technological surplus by the Technical Director because they were tycoons – the director was one of the classic tycoons – they said: "Jerovska can't be bought..." – and they really couldn't bribe me – "and you have to get him out of the factory." That's why it's the wrong message. In this square they stand under the New Ljubljana Bank and no one who talks about thieves looks at the bank. There's not a single password that says you have to bring back the money that was stolen from banks that went to Cyprus and other tax havens! These are the wrong messages. Through this spoil, through this national council we must send the right messages. In my opinion, the President must convene such a meeting. There is a huge hall of effect in this public. They're the ones most attacking Minister Turk and sending him all kinds of messages. I was a registered researcher, even though I was from the factory, and I developed a synthesis of zeolita A taken and product brought with my colleagues into production. That's when we saved 150 jobs, production is still in the summer. I'm a talker, and I've worked with researchers a lot. Unfortunately, the minister is in a position to "knock" and I know he's fighting and fighting inside the government to beat this sector with a bigger piece of bread. But I have to say that the "experts" and "scientists" are the ones who are the ones who say this to me – my colleagues, university professors – who do not have one respectable article in their "brilliant" research and academic career. Their citation index is 0, despite spending a lot of public funds. Although I also believe that more money needs to be put into development and research – if this is intended and the budget is adopted in order to make this possible again in a few years – it is right for the managers and directors of public institutions to show that within their institutions they are capable of separating what is excellent, research and developmental excellence, excellent, from what is a large hall effect and has no value. When it comes to fundamental sciences – a researcher, a scientist who wrote articles in recognized magazines and quoted them abundantly, he deserves to be quoted, while others need to be "touched". These directors are now in a position to show what the Croatian proverb says: "The hajjuts know each other on the torture". After this battle, we will see in the darkness who are the hajjuks within the research and scientific sphere. They should be able to direct inside, because even though we cut this money, it's still more than it was for the same institutes 10 years ago. When I listen to the opposition speak, it seems to me that I have heard it in previous opposition mandates. That's, today you'd say copy-paste, sometimes we said finger print, fingerprint. It's just two bolts that line up and talk. A colleague of mine said the government was polluting the environment. The Slovenians ’ habitat was polluted by its government. It has worsened its living conditions by borrowing, by failing the economy, as stated in Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung. This is the most catastrophic pollution if I use the metaphor of polluting the living environment. Let him talk about it, not show pigeons on the roof. Also a colleague of Masha Kociper's when she was talking about the trial. The branch and the D.A. are on the same ship. They get a little less. I understand their halo effect, but I don't understand the threats that they'll no longer be tried if they have to be tried for less money. Some court presidents say they already plan to do so. It's not true they don't have any reserves. I told the Attorney-General at the committee meeting when we heard the report that I was ready if he confirmed and assured me that they would do well in the budget implementation law, to give him an amendment that would allow him to pay 13. On what grounds? On the basis of the fact that I asked him when they would start implementing a law on the confiscation of property that had been in force for more than half a year, they did not come in one more case and did not realize it. It would be wise for the prosecution and the judiciary to enforce this law and, for example, to get out of that bank robbery through the investigation from bank oasis, Cyprus, Liechtenstein, etc. at least 2 billion of those 6 billion that have been gone. This crime in banks has happened, and if they get 2 billion back, we'll confirm their 13th salary. I'm sure. But no, Masha Kociper says how the President of the Supreme Court will achieve his goal, she said, and I thought she would recite Kosoval's Pre-Death, which says, "Everyone will achieve their goal, but I will not achieve it, a fire full of strength to rest." She probably didn't mean it like that, but some of the presidents of the courts are threatening to literally retire so they won't judge again. In this part, Kosovo may have been prophetic. I don't think so. The judiciary must, in my opinion, say anything, criticise, work with the aim that this country will be a more legal country and that citizens will also believe that they will believe that in two years they will no longer protest so massively in our markets and that they will not be able to abuse those groups that abuse the rightful protesters against public property, so that they will always yell at who is all the thief, but at the same time they do not see them standing under a bank where they have run out of billions of money! Let them go to the magistrate, where the second source of the originator of the financial resources in this country. Let the court judge. I must say, unfortunately, the D.A. doesn't send these messages. Even in this extremely critical situation, I have a feeling that they have sent a message to mercenaries who are breaking down a country that is provoking people who are throwing stones at police officers to move from one scene to another. Otherwise we wouldn't have let them go. Otherwise, it would be admitted to a police officer that the welfare of the state is that they are the right employees of the state. In this country, however, it is legal to break up the average, shout, and legalise that in this country it is the best place for the mafia, financial and so on. These two budgets are a step towards sobriety. All institutions, public institutions will suffer. But Frankfurt Allgemeine Zeitung, our biggest partner's newspaper, says the economy is failing. If we do not recover and enable our economy to compete, what will you, the opposition, yell in two years? What? You will have to start studying the original content for the discussion on the budget. Not that copy pasta from two years ago, four years ago, when Janshea was the first government. One thing I saw was that you literally repeated them again. It takes some originality. Make some suggestions. The directors of public research institutions will reward those researchers, for example, in the natural and technical field that have developed a new product, because those companies will invest in a new product and will be exempt from the new investment tax on the basis of these budgets, as they will reward them. Unfortunately, I don't know many of these very loud scientists who would develop a new product or those who are involved in fundamental science, which must also be, and have written in world magazines articles that they quote in America, Japan and elsewhere. As fast as their citation index is 0, they can't say they're successful scientists and they need to be limited a little. Pursuing the right objectives within this budget is our duty and the right message to those who are desperate, rightly desperate. The message that we will do something to return some of this money to those scientists who know how to develop new products and develop them to invest in their future and their children's future, and in this way we will start the cycle. This way, ladies and gentlemen. I call on you to maintain the sobriety you showed yesterday, and to start making real proposals today, but not proposals for how to increase budgets, budget deficits to duplicate and force the country to commit itself to write off the future for our children and our grandchildren. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. With this, we've exhausted the list of first-round applicants. I guess there's still a desire to discuss it. Mrs. Kociper, the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u74	I've been specifically mentioned several times. I find that Mr Jerovšek has, unfortunately, misunderstood my debate again. I've discussed it quite differently than he's interpreted it. In no part did I protect the judiciary, not the prosecution. I assume that his misunderstanding stems from misunderstandings between these authorities. Thus, let us say that Mr Jerovšek thinks that the judiciary has released the protesters they have captured. If we learned a little more, we'd know that the D.A. didn't make a motion for detention. Maybe that's what this is all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I realized earlier that there was still a desire for a debate, so I'm opening up a new application circuit. Check-in is on. We should warn earlier, Mrs Brunskole, Mrs Jasmina Opec has been reported in this round.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. All of you, welcome! The budget we have today is not just a collection of some numbers, it is not just a system of such or different items, but it is a picture of decisions and developments in recent years. Wrong decisions, decisions that were right but made in an unfair, late or premature moment. However, decisions that have not been taken should be taken. It is a reflection of the invisibility or simple denial of the actual state of affairs, the inhibition of reforms, the exercise of its interest, the thoughtlessness of tomorrow and the thoughtlessness of others. It reflects the inability of individual social groups to dialogue, the inability to reach some compromise solutions. The budget is what it is today. Not beautified, not puffed up, not stretched out, not decorated. It's a reality we have to face without some demagogic or populist phrase. Everyone would like higher wages, pensions, social transfers, more money for education, more money for health care. We all want our citizens and citizens to have the best, but we must not deceive them and throw sand in their eyes. We must honestly tell the truth, but at the same time commit ourselves to doing everything in our power to make things better. I am aware that only certain cuts in the budget are not our way out of the crisis, they are only a fraction of that. Without adequate reforms, such as the pension reform adopted yesterday, labour market reform, changes in the field of referendums, changes in education, the judiciary – all of these are steps that will make our boat move forward in a better direction. Today, my colleague, Michael Prevc, spoke in the position of the Slovenian People's Party about the broader responsibility for the situation in the country and also about the broader responsibility for the situation in our public finances. Yes, anyone who in any way co-creates our country and society in which we live should be an official who issues decisions on the basis of which the economy carries out its activity, that is, a judge who decides on the rights and obligations of our citizens and citizens, a unionist who advocates the interests of a narrow group of people without thinking about the consequences for the country as a whole, that this should be a policy that makes the most important decisions through laws, a banker who grants credit – each will have to ask himself what and how it will contribute to a better state. Everyone will have to be aware of their responsibilities in this country. We could say that this budget is merely a mitigation of the fall into an even greater crisis, into the even greater abyss in which we are. However, it also contains important steps that may be the beginning of a way out of this abyss. Investment funds, mainly from European funds, at the same time as halting the unrealistic spending process. Any euro leaving the state's wallet will have to be carefully planned. Unfortunately, this cannot be avoided by interfering with the mass of wages in the public sector. I agree that this is an unpopular and painful measure, but if we do not take such measures today, we will all have a painful future together. I was at home, in Prekmurje days ago, faced with a comment that was somehow: "I am working in the public sector and I am ready to give up any additional salary cuts, provided that it goes directly to projects that will resettle Slovenia and take care of people." As a child, I looked pride in the eyes of my parents when we received this country and my sovereignty. I wish my children could see in my eyes one day the pride that we have preserved this sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I've seen wishes before after the debate. Mrs. Brunskole, anyone else? Otherwise, we'll just give her our word. I'm opening up an opportunity to report to the debate. We've got three registered. He'll be the first to discuss mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. Today, mainly by the opposition, we are listening to a number of allegations that are going in the direction that this budget is unrealistic. Here, colleague Bratušek mentioned other numbers, different numbers, worse numbers – that the deficit will be between 5.5 and 6%, that the debt of 70% of gross social product, that this budget is not real and that it is made on wrong assumptions, which means that the situation with her eyes will be even worse, even more black-eyed and that is worrying. On the other hand, we hear a lot of arguments about how pointless it is to save. How pointless it is to save or how pointless it is to spend less than we could or are in some areas of the past. Colleagues and colleagues, that's not consistent. If, on the one hand, you are talking about the situation being even worse and on the other hand you are promoting consumption, then we can rightly ask ourselves where. From where we could take enough money to spend more and give more money for certain programs. The cut to the expenditure side, in my opinion, is the first step that allows the consolidation of public finances, on the basis of which further development will be possible. Of course, by properly rehabilitating banks, we will ensure that the rule of law ensures that entrepreneurs, economists, individuals, individuals, feel safe and feel a just state. In particular, in order to feel that they are treated equally before the courts, that they are treated equally quickly before the courts and that criminal acts in the courts will be found and resolved very quickly. It is very worrying, and it is very bad that some politicians also resort to contentious or possibly even criminal acts. But it is a disaster if those involved in crime join politics. This means an even greater disaster for the country. This is not just me, others who are professionally engaged in these things argue. On the other hand, we hear that there will be a sale of property in this country. We're hearing that this sale has already taken place, but I don't know any incoming transactions that would go on any sale. In the economy, it's hard to figure out what the sale is. It is difficult to determine what the price is, which means the sale because this sale is meant in a negative sense. For this reason, I think that the budget we are talking about today is realistic and allows the possibility that, within this budget and with the measures adopted on the revenue side, it will form the basis for development in order to make businesses more competitive, to achieve greater added value and to make them more employable. It is said that nothing has been done on the revenue side. That was heard several times today. That's just not true. It is necessary to look at all the laws adopted by this Parliament, for which we have voted here, which change the taxation of individuals and individuals subject to income tax. Those with the highest income will be taxed at a higher, 50% rate. The laws relating to the taxation of property, in particular property, should be examined. These properties will be taxed at higher rates and are already taxed at higher rates. Speaking of taxation of so-called luxury products, expensive and powerful cars – these cars are already taxed at higher rates. In terms of taxation of yachts, yachts are already taxed with higher rates. Because of the fact that it is not working on the income side, it is simply not true. The question is whether the measures are sufficient to cover the public spending provided for in this budget and whether we will keep the deficit as it is. If we don't, this means even worse for future generations and even worse for the environment, both economically and socially, as we have it today. The point is that the trend of declining economic growth, the trend of increasing unemployment, the trend of declining competitiveness, which has been happening in recent years, is reversed. Let us turn to growth and thus better ratings, thereby making the money that both banks, individuals and the country owes them will be cheaper. That's the whole point. Today we are saying that some European countries are making more development. These European countries took very difficult and rigorous measures in the area of expenditure three years ago. Among other things, Germany. At a time when we increased spending that was not earned in Slovenia, these countries were reducing expenditure. This is why they have economic growth today, and this is why they can invest and lead a different policy today. Various quotations, the different thoughts that are expressed here, are not intended for all countries and are not universal. The International Monetary Fund also gives a very precise assessment of each country and gives or proposes appropriate measures for each country. The International Monetary Fund said it supported the implementation of the so-called bad bank. But he did not say it in general, said the delegation, the head of the delegation, who was in Slovenia a month or two ago. One week ago, the Executive Directors of the International Monetary Fund adopted the report on Slovenia and urged Slovenia to do everything possible to resolve bank claims, but in connection with a special institution called a bad bank. This is what is important to Slovenia right now. This is also important in view of the withdrawal of closures called after the referendum if we constantly refer to the International Monetary Fund. I think there's a lot of opinions here, and there's a lot of opinions here. I believe that these opinions are not so different that we cannot find a compromise. However, I certainly think that the compromise will be based on creation and not on consumption, and that the creation of the driving force of the Slovenian people, not on consumption, will be a compromise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u79	Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is indeed irresponsible that we are discussing today the general part of the 2013 and 2014 budget and, on the other hand, we do not have any Minister or Minister of Government present in the National Assembly. That is why I think it is important to talk about how some people are trying, how everyone, together with the debates, can show where weak points have been and perhaps in the future they have found improvements, without purpose. Otherwise, as soon as we reach the amendments, we will see how ready you coalition Members are to take into account our comments or at least some of our comments and proposals. If you allow me to start my 2013 and 2014 budget debate differently. More than once today, we have heard that people need to drink pure wine, that people need to be explained that they must not live above their ability to save, that they must not spend more than they deserve. In other words, I find it completely irresponsible for people to pour pure wine in this situation. The minimum wage is €700. Can we really fool these people into living their lives over their abilities when they have to pay all their duties with 700 euros of labor wages? I say, and this is also noted by many internationally recognised economists, our economists, that this is not politically responsible at this stage, because Slovenians, according to statistics within Europe, are considered one of the most cost-effective nations. So much for the intro. On the other hand, I even agree with certain sentences spoken today by the opposition. I agree, for example, with the statement that these two budgets are a step towards sobriety. The summary comes when you look at numbers only in the field of work, family and social affairs for 2013 and 2014. When you look and compare with the 2011 realisation or the 2012 budget rebalancing, the 2012 budget balance already contains the effects of the austerity measures that have been taken under this government in the National Assembly. It also takes into account the austerity effects of the Public Finance Balance Act, which has fundamentally affected education, health and social protection. But you know what's sad and worrying? That the budgets for the next two years in these areas contain lower numbers. You don't have to be a bad economist. You just have to use a little bit of logic to see where it's going. I am concerned that today, by the government coalition, I have heard information that the number of unemployed has increased by 70,000 from 2008 to today. A very high number, but when I look at the 2013 budget, I see that there is a reduction in monetary compensation on the unemployment line. Where are the positive measures in this budget that say that the number of unemployed will fall? I have not seen any positive effect which suggests that the number for the protection of the unemployed is justified because, on the other hand, many unemployed people will be employed or have the opportunity to become employed. Dear colleagues and colleagues, what we should talk about when we talk about such an important document is dignity. Tell me where these numbers contain human dignity. If you will not, because today we have listened to the revelations of how irresponsible the opposition is, how the opposition criticises everything without connection, I will use the words of a recognised economist who says: "The reform efforts of the current government are focused primarily on saving in the public sector, decommissioning the social state and reducing labour costs. It's not a development concept, it's a dying meal." The social state is not just a cost, we must be aware of that. It's not, and it can't just be a cost. If I go further, you will not say once again that it is only the opposition that is critical of the proposed solutions. The former French Minister of Culture said, and then I will draw parallels with Slovenia: "In 10 years, the right hand in France has abolished more than 150 thousand jobs of teachers or educators." A similar story is happening today in Slovenia. He goes on to say, "Our school system, which was of quality, has gone a long way." Who were the victims of this setback? Who were the victims? Not those who have enough, rich layers. The first victims are children of the lower and middle layers. A reminder of what can happen to us with all the announced measures to follow the figures in these two documents in the 2013 and 2014 budgets. True, it is not just a set of numbers in these two documents, behind these numbers is the "development" strategy of the Government. Domestic NGOs are also very serious about the decline of trees. Slovenia still has relatively well-organized education and health care for the European situation, and social protection is no longer available. With the new proposals for austerity measures, I am afraid the situation in the educational field will deteriorate dramatically. This is warned by prominent Slovenian representatives of NGOs. The published statistics on the level of risk of poverty and material deprivation in the population show that the social situation has deteriorated significantly this year. What should lead in the preparation of the documents for the next two years, called the 2013 and 2014 budgets, is a concrete analysis of what social protection legislation meant, which entered into force 1. 1. 2012 and what the ZUJF, the Law on Public Finance Balance meant in this area. When we have a real picture of how the situation in households, in families, has deteriorated due to these two austerity laws, we will be able to prepare a development document for next year. But do you know what happened when the opposition tried to get the data that the ministries should have? We called for a joint meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth and the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. A huge number of invited eminent representatives, guests, were on the list. However, the coalition played us so much that it convened this joint meeting separately, at the same time in two separate rooms. We wanted to be constructive and with concrete data to show that the situation in our country is extremely serious, but not from the point of view of some economic indicators or from the point of view of warnings from the European Union, but from the point of view of the lives of citizens and citizens of our country. Below, our party has also prepared an amendment that currently touches one of the most pressing problems – this is hunger among Slovenian children in primary schools. I hope that we all agree that that country that allows such a situation to continue is bad. That is why I call on you, colleagues and colleagues, because you still have time to consider how you will vote on the amendments below.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, hello! I cannot support the 2013 and 2014 supplementary draft budget. The budget is unrealistic. It's been said several times, these are the words of the opposition. On the one hand, we probably all agree that there is really no place left to save and tighten the belt and that we should all look together at how to increase the income side. All is planned to achieve the objective of reducing the public deficit to 2.5%, which is unrealistic. The objective of balancing the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in 2015 will also not be achieved. The controversy is that she's a colleague of mags. My cousins didn't show actual and real data that she might have made a mistake, they don't. I am convinced that she is ready to present the data to us again and that we will look together to see if anything does not. The approach chosen to rehabilitate banks with a bad bank, which will need 11% of gross social product after calculation, does not constitute the most economical and time-effective solution. The debt isn't over, either, despite the promises. The government obviously counted in the calculations. The management of state property in the Slovenian State Holding means that the sale of state property may take place. Also in business-successful Slovenian companies, whose shares I am not sure we want to sell out, such as Krka, Petrol, Drava power plants, Slovenian energy, also in other companies. Slovenia has an extremely favourable geostrategic position with many comparative advantages, natural data and opportunities. All of these services could be multiplied by making the most of European cohesion funds for major infrastructure projects such as the construction of the necessary additional infrastructure at Luka Koper – linking it to the second track of Divaca-Koper – as well as the third development axis from Koroška to Bela Krajina is the one we talk about many times. This developmental orientation is not to the extent that we can believe that any of these projects will come to life with the start of construction under this government's mandate. If I touch only the projects of the third development axis in the 2013 and 2014 budgets, we can see a reduction in the amount of resources. Any investment, including infrastructure, means relaunching the economy, can mean economic growth, an increase in the revenue side. There are also more revenue in the budget with more employees. Also with contributions paid, taxes paid. This budget is actually austerity, as has been highlighted several times today. Without or with too few development elements – we cannot say that there is no development element, but not so much that we can talk about reducing the number of unemployed so that we can talk about how many new jobs he will bring. We want to restore confidence in the work of the government, in the work of the competent ministries and in the work of the coalition. It is quite a desire for the opposition, because it warns, to present it as if we oppose it as if we are carrying out blockades. That's not true. We warn and, above all, we want good. Any conversion of words in this direction means that we go back to each other. We warn, we are not heard, others are dissatisfied again because we warn, and we would say the wrong world. People of all generations want positive measures, as well as concrete and rapid effects. This budget does not appear to have rapid and concrete effects. The municipalities are today the generators of development. It is located in the Municipality of Ljubljana. This is probably more directed at the mayor, if he is against the Ljubljanaians and the Ljubljanaians, I don't know. However, I know that this is an important development site in the Republic of Slovenia, including universities, even education. Such saving, belt tightening, leads to further uncertainty, setbacks, the spread of people to the poorer and richer. The gradual process of destroying and decommissioning all public, changes in public education, health care, abolition and changes in school environments – something like this will happen in White Krajina. Six months ago, I pointed out this. Today, the budget obviously expects this. Commander Staneta’s primary school, Dragatush, will become a branch school at Vinica Primary School. The same will be true of the Old Market Elementary School. The school in the Underworld, a rainbow school that burned down years ago, will join the methyl primary school, etc. The developmental, demographically endangered areas, the areas from which I come from, will obviously be even more threatened after that, not to say the artery. The first five years after the birth of a child are extremely important. We say that these are the educational, developmental most important years. There are invitations, there are calls from kindergartens. Concerned people in these kindergartens say: "Joining departments, one educator with more than 30 children – will this mean developmental orientation and obedience for the youngest? Will we be able to control this too? How Members and Members of the National Assembly imagine this because they do not have a hearing for us." It's time to step back. I hope so. We want to maintain the quality of our kindergartens. Many new kindergartens have been built with European funds, and I would regret that these kindergartens would become empty or half empty and that people educated for this work would lose their jobs and go back to Ljubljana for work, to other major cities or to go outside the Republic of Slovenia, as young people, educated people, scientists are now deciding. The destruction of all public, education, health, health care, on the one hand, and institutions that practically live on their own – we will end them in some areas, join the Institute for Health Protection, bring together experts from areas around Slovenia, take them all to Ljubljana to drive – and on the other hand, we will also think clearly about the design of elites in education, health and universities. I hope I am wrong, because otherwise it will mean that young children, when they are hungry – children have a low-value complex, those who cannot wear shoes as they would like and so on. Differences are already emerging today. How do you make a move? How to make a conversion, arguments? In Brdo pri Kranj, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia stressed what it meant in terms of trade, entrepreneurship, economy and business. However, this budget does not talk about it to the extent that we can see that we are going to achieve economic growth, new jobs and that this is an important priority, as young people are going abroad. The Council of Justice reminds us, even on Saturday at a meeting of the Committee on Finance, of the importance of the rule of law and of the fact that we do not come to chaos in the field of justice. The amendment that has been tabled will resolve this matter to some extent, but in spite of all of this, we can come to a judicial standstill, and we can come to a situation in the country when we no longer feel safe. It's like this these days. Are we talking about competitiveness in this budget? There's not enough arguments here, too. Not only are there no arguments to be felt in this Chamber but there are no arguments to be read in the prepared budget. How are new factories in the region of Koroška, where they also face unemployment, not only in Bela Krajina and Pomurje – how if there is no road? If potential investors are not interested? Did we respond in this direction? Major projects are currently not the government's priority. The savings budget is leading us to just save more money so that people lose confidence and lose hope in this country. It would be good to re-adopt such a budget balance as soon as possible – the budget is likely to adopt – which would have elements of developmental orientation, the use of European funds, major infrastructure projects, the retention of public schools, the preservation of public health and health care and, in particular, retain Slovenia as a legal and social state, as an example in Europe, a small country with important economic results. If there is no state support in this direction, if we talk today or tomorrow about excise duties and so on, then I am not sure that this is the right way. Some colleagues who said that it would be necessary to be sober — we have been worried long ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mrs. Brunskol. I assume we have at least two more discussers. Since my colleague Frangež has joined us, who has already suggested that he will probably discuss it, I am opening applications. Three debaters, Mr. Jože Tanko is the first.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. The circumstances for the preparation of both coalition budgets are not good; they are not those that give optimism to anyone. It's a difficult situation. Data on future developments in GDP growth are not good. At the same time, we must find that the history behind the preparation of budgets is also extremely poor. In the mandate of the previous government, we faced some sudden changes to which the response was made, as the then President of the Government said three years after he was no longer Prime Minister of the Government, that they had taken the wrong measures to rehabilitate the country. He said that in an interview, and no one has ever denied it, especially not the former Prime Minister of the Government. While we were monitoring the preparation of budgets, adopting budgets and proposing a series of measures, there was no listening. The discussions of those who defended the current budgets, in which the deficits were greatly increased, were quite different than they are now. At a time when, after half a year of work, those governments adopted the budget rebalancing and increased their debt by EUR 700 million or by 2.2% of GDP, you all said that this should be done precisely because of the things you are talking about – that we will start the economy, keep jobs, and encourage a lot of things. Even though you have advocated this so vehemently, despite the fact that you have adopted the budget, the 2009 budget balance and also the 2010 budget with enormously high deficits and talked about their purpose, this has not happened. All that happened during this period was an increase in public debt by 8 billion or the sum of the deficits of so many and an additional 70,000 unemployed in the Employment Service or, grossly, 150 thousand lost jobs, as there are some 60,70 000 more who have lost their jobs by work permits. I ask where these 8 billion euros went. For what purpose? Did this 8 billion euro end there when you talk about that 5 billion, I don't know, potential damage? Perhaps the decisions of the former government in this work were very poor and unintended. The circumstances, as I said, are bad, but the work of all institutions is still being maintained. None of these will be affected so much that they should be closed and work maintained at an appropriate level. If we ever want to become a model of Europe, what we were before the mandate of the previous government, then something must be done. With as dynamic as it was in the previous mandate, we can no longer be indebted, just as those who are now persecuted by creditors could not. The state also has those who represent creditors when it is in debt. I don't think all citizens can move or take citizenship from Cyprus. We'll stay here. But the creditors will in any case have established claims against the state, and someone will have to pay for that. If we can't adjust our appetites with running business, with current budgets, so that things can be sustainable and can be serviced, then there's probably something wrong with us. We've already made some adjustments. We have adopted intervention legislation, we have adopted a Public Finance Balance Act, we are adopting a new budget with similar objectives, and I hope that this will be sufficient to preserve some face of the country that has things under control and under control. And I also have to say that the incorrect accounts of those who are now telling us not to do the right things are not servicing the right things. Those who say so have passed a law on rights from public funds in the previous term. There you severely restricted all those rights that affect young families. You've restricted the children's allowances, you've restricted the scholarships or you've separated it, which was not before, you've destroyed the laws that we've proposed, let's say the student diet that was introduced for the first time in that mandate of Janša's government, you've also intervened in subsidized transport of apprentices, students and students, etc. With this law, you have also made a massive contribution to the property of the citizens, because the basis for payment has become property. Now that you point to the current government with your finger, first – and here you are 15 members of the previous call – look at what you have taken and how you have defended precisely these measures, by which you have reduced and affected the social rights of those you are now so actively defending. It is you who have adopted this legislation in the previous term. Mrs Brunskole and other SD Members could review the magnetograms of their current discussions. The Minister of Svetlik, who proposed this, was in a way an idol of social democracy, adopted key and proposed key anti-social laws. Now what you have destroyed in your previous term, through the amendments, you push into the arms of the current government in these circumstances. If you were such a master, you could easily arrange it in the previous term, easily. You had the apparatus that was following you professionally, you had the political power, the voting apparatus, and all those things would have been easy to arrange. I think that there is something to be done in this area, because it is not possible to drive things in a way like in the previous term. We all know that. That is why I propose that we not discuss this demagogism, but that we discuss, above all, the reality, the reality. If we know what the main problem is now, after 3 years of enlightenment that has happened with the former Prime Minister of the Government, then we will release all these measures that we have on the table that we have adopted and if the banking system starts to spin, the economic system will also begin to spin. Until the economy has the opportunity to co-finance, to credit, to revolvers or to increase credit potentials, it is not possible to boost economic growth. All that is happening is essentially a spiral or chain of downturns of companies following each other. In this way nothing concrete can be done. I will support the draft budget with all these substantive proposals and solutions. I will also support the law on the implementation of the budget and I think that this is a suitable step for this year and the next budget for next year. Many other reserves or opportunities will show up at the time of implementation, and these things can then be regulated by budget rebalancies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u85	Thank you very much. A replica? No, Mrs Brunskole, the reference was not to your debate. You have been mentioned, but the reference was not to your debate, so there is no possibility of replica. You were instructed to look at the magnetogram, which was not part of your discussion. I give my word to Mr. Frangejo.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u86	Thank you very much. My procedural proposal is to say, given that I cannot give a replica to Mr Tank, that we have also adopted a pension reform in the previous term, and we have also adopted it yesterday, although worse than the previous term, and the current coalition has not listened to it at that time. So what I would like to say procedurally is that the obvious position has changed and has now been given as an obvious. But I can tell you that I'm doing the right thing today. That's how I did it in the last term. Another child in kindergarten for free – I am sorry that this is a measure of this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u87	Mrs Brunskole, you have now used the Rules of Procedure to the very best of all and have misapplied the procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Frangezh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u88	My opening remarks are that I'm a politician. In fact, for a very long time, I have considered myself a politician and nothing more. I am telling you this because I would like to tell you that my performance also includes an attitude towards public affairs. I think that the policy of managing public affairs is for the benefit of all. I have always, and I hope that this has been more or less successful, tried this profession, this mission of my own, to realize in exactly the same way that we accept the solutions to the clear problems of this country, our community, so that tomorrow will be better for all. It is quite possible that because of this circumstance, I am one of those, and along with you, with whom it is ended. That after this protest wave, politics will no longer exist. But that is not true, because there will always be a public interest, because there will always be common things that each community will have to deal with each other. The budget of the city, the budget of the country, the budget of the European Union or the budget of each community is the most important act adopted by this community in a specific year. The budget is intended to reflect development visions and measures to realize the development visions of each community. Through this optics, we must also assess the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the first budget proposed by this government. It is true that the calendar year of the life of a country, the implementation of the policies of a country, is not an isolated fact. It relies on the history of past actions, past successes and past mistakes, as well as on the future. The budget is supposed to reflect the desired image of our society, which we will perhaps reach in the second year, and most likely in some medium- and long-term period, so the budget is extremely important. We do not accept the budget today because it is our obligation under the Public Finance Act. We accept the budget because it should be a document from which the development vision of this nation is reflected. A development vision of this country. What is the development vision of this country? Let's go back to 1991. At that time, as a nation, we decided to establish our country because we believed that we could better manage our future as masters of our country. It was a collective performance of this nation, but at the same time it was also an intimate performance of each and every one of us, a legitimate expectation. I call it our dream. 20 years later, we seem to have capitulated before our own dreams, to see that Slovenia today is not a promised country, not for this generation and not for the generations of our children. Today we see that Slovenia is not a regulated country where we can protect good and punish evil. Today we also see that the story of Slovenia as a successful country was based on broken legs. Today, we also note that the illusion of a socially regulated society that offers equal opportunities for all through public education is a public education system, a public university that protects everyone through the mechanisms that a strong social state has and provides health care to anyone who is sick or injured, to a large extent is also a hoax. Why do we have this country, let's ask again. I claim that we have this country in order to organize ourselves so that the life of all of us in the Slovenian community will be better tomorrow, to set our goals, realistic, ambitious, and to accumulate the energy that this nation is overpowering – I am sure of this! To say, "No, today we are ready to work hard, today we are ready to give up because we know that this path, that this thoughtful plan of action will lead us to a better life tomorrow. A better life in which we can promise our children more, not that we are faced every day and every time with increased fear, uncertainty, climate that cannot be healthy." You may not think I'm talking about the budget, but this is exactly what I'm talking about. About how our performances are carried out in the current state budget. I have never claimed that the policy that I belong to, the social democracy that I believe in, has never made any mistakes. Yeah, we make mistakes, maybe we make mistakes at the time. It is undeniable that our government has made mistakes. But what is important in this is, what is the optics, what is the desire, and I say that we have good intentions, to protect people, to provide them with more security in difficult times, and thus more courage, so that in a difficult time when we are all a little confused and need support, we find this support in a strong community. We had good intentions when we substantially increased funds for public education, public university, science and research, because we understand that only knowledge, that only complex knowledge, that creativity is only creativity, that innovation is what makes our economy more competitive tomorrow, that it is therefore the only and only promise that we will be better tomorrow, that we will sell more. That what we sell will be sold at a higher price, and that tomorrow will provide better wages for our people. This is not a illusion, Slovenia is in a pervasive moment, in an unstable world, and if the world around us is unstable, we need to adapt ourselves so that we are as flexible as possible that the shock from the outside will not shake us again and break the foundations on which this society is built. Does this budget respond to this challenge? No, no, no. First of all because it's built on the wrong assumption. It is built on the assumption that we must first tighten our belt, reduce our income, reduce people's social security, reduce their security, reduce our incentives to be better tomorrow, first have to regulate public finances and then get better. That's the wrong assumption. We have never claimed that fiscal consolidation is not important, on the contrary, our government has proposed commitments under the Stability Pact. At the same time, however, our government has also been building on the fact that all aspects of human security, social security, economic penetration, direct incentives to this economy and the strengthening of education as a mechanism to strengthen our competitive capacities at the same time. There is today eight billion euros in increased public debt. But this government is constantly scaring, creating emergency situations, deepening uncertainty. What do we do when we're scared? Let's get in the corner and make sure our backs are protected. We're in a cramp, we're scared, we're not thinking innovatively, we're not thinking about what I have to do today to make my life better tomorrow. In order for people to think about how to improve their individual lives, their individual perspective, we need to strengthen the field of security for all of us. To ensure that each of us is sufficiently protected in order to have and be able to rely on effective social assistance from the State in the event of unemployment in case of loss of employment. In order to find incentives for his company in the environment and in the community, he will have a functioning labour market where he will find a new opportunity to think innovatively and creatively. This budget does not reflect any of this, it does not reflect the expectations that our people express clearly on the streets of Slovenian cities these days. As you know, these expectations are very simple: we demand justice and demand an orderly society in which good and punished evil will be protected. In response, we are inventing a reform of the political system, but we are missing the point. Do you know where the credibility of politics begins? In a simple word, which is not used very often in the Slovenian vocabulary and is called honor. Honor! If you are an honest man, you do not say the set of measures you have, but say, if there is, confidence in your personality, your credibility, your credibility, that you will be able to exercise public trust as a politician in the common good, so that you will be able to accept the consequences of your actions and give up when necessary. Accept our responsibility to ensure that social conditions do not escalate. Stand down when you're part of a prosecution, even if you're Prime Minister. Because it's not a question of whether someone is guilty or innocent. Everyone's presumption of innocence must be protected consistently and to the end because the rule of law is built on this right. But for us ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, it must be a higher standard, a higher standard. There must be confidence in the fact that by our work, by exercising public trust, we exercise public confidence in the common good. How can someone who is faced with a trial of a legal charge or an indictment do so? This is where this debate begins. The budget also does not answer this question because it undermines the foundations of the rule of law with the inability of the courts to carry out their work. That's how we're gonna push our way to another republic? By heading all social sub-systems such as education, such as the university, such a system of yesterday's well-functioning social security and such as courts, such as those to judge what is right in this society and what is wrong? We are putting so bad pressure on the way of Slovenia's future, which is expected by Slovenian streets and the market. Let me conclude by responding to one of the previous statements that our government has caused in social legislation what has happened. To a large extent, this statement is correct. At that time, we expressed our willingness to amend social legislation because we were all faced with a type of abuse that was taking place in society. At the same time, however, we promised to closely monitor the effects of the new social legislation and react immediately with legislative changes. That's when the government fell. We were no longer in a position to propose changes. This excuse will not hold up any longer, Mr. Tanko. That is why I call on you: respond to the situation! Yes, social legislation, adopted with good intentions, has also caused injustices – but respond to it, support our amendment to increase school nutrition funds! React to the problem. Bring to the National Assembly a change in social legislation, let's fix what we've missed. Let's admit our mistakes. We know how to recognize them, because the credibility of politics is also based on the fact that when it is wrong, it speaks out publicly and is ready to accept responsibility. On this, Your Honor, is the foundation of mine and your honor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Plevčak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Unfortunately, I'm not a politician, but I'm here because I was elected. The 2013 and 2014 budget debate is ready in the light of the situation in which we are in. Part of the reason for this is a longer period of time, not from yesterday to today, and at that time we had more governments. Who is responsible for this situation? We have talked about this several times in this House. Responsibilities are on a system we haven't gotten to alive yet. This is in the banking system, in the economic elites and also in the authorities which were unwilling to resolve matters as quickly and as quickly as possible. Today we'd have things clean and maybe we could have a different conversation. I think that when we adopt the budget we need to think about the situation in which we are right now, people are on the streets. At the time of adoption, we must be consistent, in particular as regards matters dealing with social issues and our lowest layer. Pensioners are also in this lowest layer. The 2013 and 2014 budgets also provide for coordination for pensioners, although very minimal, only 50% in terms of wage growth, although a little higher has been agreed. But we are aware of the situation we are in, and we will try to justify our demands with the growth of our gross product, and with regard to the situation that is expected to improve on the part of the pensioners, coordination leads to the point we agreed on. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we are satisfied with some items. We are pleased with the chapter where VAT remains at 8.5%, which we have strictly advocated. But we are saddened by things like education, education and social transfers. However, we are deeply aware that if there is no money, it is only necessary to endure a year, two or even if it is necessary, three years to bridge things, to take a step forward and then to renegotiate matters when we can think more positively and talk about increasing these and other benefits that we have now taken away from some. I think that there is something else to say when we adopt the budget, which we will also support in our Group of Members, that we must exert all our efforts to revive our economy. This is also the task of the government and also Parliament, because we do not imagine that we will take a step forward for better results, for a better life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I see another desire for debate. Does anyone else want to discuss this point? No, no, no. Mr. Tanko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Some observations were made, including regarding the pension reform or the quality of the pension reform of the previous government, which fell on the referendum. Here I must say that the previous reform has been rejected by trade unions and also a large part of the professional public. It was therefore forwarded to a referendum where political actors decided as they thought it was right for them. This is not the case now, as was previously the case with the abuse of the procedural proposal by the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mrs Brunskole. I already think it's a big problem if one of the heads of the National Assembly abuses business arrangements. The other thing is, it's a big difference whether you have knowledge or you talk about knowledge. For those who talk a lot about knowledge, it would sometimes be good to have knowledge, not only do they explain it vehemently and try to position and present some things in a posterior way. There's a lot of stuff here that's done that way. This budget and budget for next year will not lead to any social subsystem. All social sub-systems will remain, all social systems will work, but it is likely that each of these social sub-systems will have to reduce something from what it has now used or what its expectations are, as far as financial means are concerned. However, given that the majority of social sub-systems have not been affected by the practical smooth operation or even increased resources in all mandates, it is likely also possible to rationalise a matter in these social sub-systems, to bring it to a more appropriate level, at a more appropriate time. It's not possible that these things get messed up and bigger because it's like that. I know it's very nice to talk about giving education another billion, 500 million for health care and things like that, or social. That sounds good, but I'm sure those of you who came from these social sub-systems know they're reserves. I think most of you, if you had that option, would know how to find them and run them. That's not a problem. We are in a situation where some, in the same way as you praised the actions of the previous government, are now demolishing the measures of the current government. I don't think that's gonna work. Not all the measures proposed by this government are weak. They're mostly good. However, they are all adjusted to the circumstances in which we are — by force of the situation. We could be milder if we got a better legacy. But since this is what it is, and you all know these numbers well, things need to be adjusted in the way they are.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Is there any other desire in this circle? And Mr. Kavticnik. I'm guessing there's more than one wish, so I'm opening the application. Five people reported. Mr. Joseph Horvath is first in line.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I was encouraged by my distinguished colleague, Matvež Frangež, who, as I pointed out in my opening presentation of both budgets, spoke again about the disintegration of the social state and so on. I'm not going to start my debate with whether I'm a politician or not. The MP is a policy "per definition". Now it is not important that I am a university professor of physics, but look at the fraction – just at the time of his discussion, an article by a university professor of physics, even a doctor of physics, employed in excellent society in Slovenia, and a lecturer at the University of Ljubljana. He gave us a very interesting reading, and I quote him not to be replicated or anything. Regarding Minister Žiga Turk, I quote: "If you do not agree with the minister because he wants to introduce the Anglo-Saxon model in higher education, then be concrete in your opposition first. But it takes knowledge, and above all it takes to look across the borders of your beautiful little country." End of quote. Since I started on the obviouss of what this coalition and government are actually doing with the social state, I am going back to an article by the so-called author, a physicist who obviously, like myself, believes some of the statistics that Eurostat is providing to us, rather than some domestic statistics – because apparently my colleague, Frangež, did not want to hear my introductory numbers when I explained how certain items for the social state are increasing in the last decade. And what does Eurostat do? Eurostat lists the so-called Gini coefficient. I'm sorry if I read it wrong, it's probably right. And what does this Gini coefficient say? Gini’s coefficient measures how society is socially divided or what income inequality is. The value of coefficient 0 means the total income equality of a company – an ideal company would have this coefficient 0 – and a value of 1 and 100 would have total inequality. In this case, one citizen gets the whole social income and everyone else lives off the air. So the lower the value of the coefficient, the smaller the inequality. If you are reading and looking at this graph, Gini's coefficient, where the Member States of the European Union and some others are listed, then you can see that Gini's coefficient for Slovenia is 23.8. Attention, the lower coefficient has only Norway. Interesting! Once again, the lower the value of the coefficient, the smaller the inequality – both Eurostat and Jože Horvat. I've only read it, but I doubt that it will be enough for anyone to believe at least a little that we intend to keep the social state or to strengthen it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u96	Thank you. From the leader of the parliamentary group, the largest coalition party would expect a little more sense of proportionality when he attacked those who oppose cuts in education and he told us that we want a billion extra money for education. This is a shameless deception to the public, for if we look at the amendment we tabled to the Budget Act, it is such that on the committee he spoke 20 million, now that we have agreed and promised that he will be adopted, we have fixed it to 16 million. A sense of measure would be welcome. The numbers I was talking about, which I quoted, were Eurostat's numbers, and I could quote them to you. I have told you many times how highly ranked we are among countries in the world according to the Human Development Index in Slovenia, 21st place, precisely because of the role that education plays in our lives and the system. So with your left hand swinging over it, it's unacceptable. Since my colleague Frangež is not here, I would only say one thing: a minister and every man has a professional career and can be a scientist in this professional career, as a university professor very successful, and the other is how successful he is at being a political official and a minister. In order to be a minister in such a large area as the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, it is necessary to have very much knowledge. And it is very bad if the minister, who has already demonstrated in the public one way or another how he feels about culture, does not distinguish between Perpetuum Jazzile and Carmino Slovenica in terms of quality at the opening. That's what I'm talking about, and there are things that throw a bad light at something else. We have already talked about how much funding there is for a given area and what needs to be said over and over again, there has been a disproportionately large intervention in education, science and culture. This coalition, whatever it wants to say to refer to the situation, cannot hide and you cannot, honourable Member and members of the coalition, shake off your responsibilities against what you are also called a letter from the Rector's Conference. The adoption of this budget without amendments means the destruction of higher education and science and culture, the whole of this area, and in particular of higher education and science. Your responsibility will be yours, but unfortunately, the consequences will be borne by people. Your thesis that it is necessary to correct the relationship between public and private in favour of private is not compatible with the thesis and the requirement for quality, because there is no correlation between quality and privacy. I told you earlier about how data are collected in Europe – whether type, public or private, only type of education, because it is important how much country is financed. This must be repeatedly repeated and repeatedly asked when you boast about certain success of cooperation and negotiation. You do not have a social consensus or consensus of people with your thesis on increasing the scope of private education, You do this without consensus, without agreement with people, without desire, in times when young people are unloved and instead of allowing access to education, we close this accessibility. So it would be good to maintain a sense of proportionality, and especially for the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u97	Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Earlier, colleague Jože Tanko, head of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, said that they were against the pension reform prepared by the previous government under the leadership of Minister Ivan Svetlik, in particular trade unions and the professional public. Indeed, the trade unions have launched a referendum initiative. The professional public supported this reform; they were individual experts who had comments, and in the first place against the previous pension reform was precisely the policy and the biggest opposition party of the Slovenian Democratic Party. On 14 December 2010, the National Assembly adopted, with more than an absolute majority of votes, a pension reform, with 49 MEPs and Members voted against by 85 Members present and 35 votes against; all members of the Slovenian Democratic Party present, all members of the Slovenian National Party and all members of the DeSUS. All members of the then coalition and the Slovenian People's Party voted in favour of the pension reform. What you will then remember on the Super Referendum Sunday, June 2011, was how the biggest opposition party in the campaign called for people to vote three times against laws, against pension laws and two others, and once against the government. This was an extremely political action against this law, and I would expect more credibility and honesty to admit today as a ruling coalition that two years ago, by rejecting pension reform, you made a major strategic mistake. The third phase of the crisis, which began in 2008, was caused by the fall of the pension reform, which was then stepped up with some irresponsible statements by the leading politicians of the current coalition, when it began to become extremely expensive at once. The facts or statements of Mr Tank are not true. They were not only trade unions against, and against, politics, not only the then largest opposition party, but also the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, which demanded re-voting on this law and also in the re-vote, received 49 votes. As it is said, I would expect more credibility and honesty from the current coalition to acknowledge some mistake they made at the time as the biggest opposition party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Renata Brunskole, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The future of Slovenia is not only about saving and tightening the belt, but we need to act immediately. If we had taken action last year, we would probably have won at least 150 million euros, but the pension reform was not adopted, we accepted it yesterday and it is now a shame to speak in any way in return. Comrade Bevk made it clear what the history of the reforms was, why and what the referendums were for. Arguments, many times spoken, what to increase and on which side: the revenue side could be increased by large projects – we have talked about this many times – ourselves – more efficient use of European funds, public-private partnerships, including in the area of building infrastructure projects such as the highway network. In the neighbouring country of Croatia, they are here before us. They've done a lot. I do not know why today there is no answer to the fact that the Government is deliberately reducing funds for the third development axis in the 2013 and 2014 budget. Is there a reason in a political decision, or is there another reason? The 2013 and 2014 budget, if the intention is good to implement this project, is, therefore, unrealistic. Public education and public health, universities are areas which we have very quality, quality and exemplaryly in the Republic of Slovenia. Why change something that's good? These guidelines in the 2013 and 2014 budget also show that there is a desire for some amendments. I don't think that's good. My position is that the 2013 and 2014 budget is unrealistic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u101	Thank you very much. And Mr. Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u102	Thank you very much, very much. I didn't mean to call, but my friend Tanko provoked me a little. Look, we're not saying that we're absolutely right and it's also very unfair to speak when it's said that we're opposed to everything. That's not true. We have said exactly what is yet to be corrected in the budget so that certain programmes, certain works can be carried out and done properly. See, in higher education or the University of Ljubljana points out that in the 2013 budget there are 16% less funding for education and 20% less resources for research. There's no internal reserve to cover this, impossible. In front of the door is the fifth year of the Bologna Program, without stopping it – or it may stop and make it impossible for students to study it. Well, that's not how it works, and that's what we've warned you about. We also cautioned that investment should be made, but investment in education and knowledge is the best investment and is the investments that are the most returnable in the long term. That's exactly what we're pointing out. If we cut here, we're cutting out the branch we're sitting on. However, when you like to refer or refer to Europe, only this, including in Scandinavia, and Germany, went to some saving, but then they increased investment or funding for education, science and research. They did it in Austria, they did it in the Czech Republic. If he's already operating on this data, he needs to be corrected. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I see that there is no longer a desire to discuss, so we will conclude the debate on the general part of the supplementary draft budget. The vote will take place in the framework of the vote, expected tomorrow, on Thursday. We are now moving on to the consideration of the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. I am opening the debate or first of all to see if anyone wants to discuss this particular part of the budget. I guess it's not a desire to discuss it. Wait a minute, we're not letting anyone go. No, it's not a debate. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mrs. Brunskol, is there anything you'd like to say? Do you have a procedural proposal or something?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u104	Procedural proposal. Madam Vice-President, I wanted to ask you not to question in any way whether we will then go to the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u105	Of course, Mrs. Brunskol, there are amendments. I am officially concluding the debate on the specific part of the budget. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 3 December 2012 and the amendments amended or amended. We will first discuss the user of the Ministry of Finance. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia to the Sub-programme Payment of Rights. I hope you have all the amendments on your hands so we can follow. I'm putting the first amendment to the debate. If no one wants to discuss the first amendment, he will. [[...]] Wait a minute, I think I've seen more hands, so I'm opening applications. Two panellists, Mr Matvež Frangež and Mrs Renata Brunskole, have been reported. So, to be clear, we are discussing the first amendment of the Group of Positive Slovenia to the Sub-programme Payment of Rights. Here you go, Mr. Frangezh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u106	I'm sorry if a few amendments were on the table and I had to find the right paper. I am very pleased with the amendment of Positive Slovenia and I announce that I will also support it. In fact, this brings about the collective commitment of the Social Democrats and Positive Slovenia, which we have already tried to achieve in vain in the two processes so far, in order to provide the budget with the source of the urgently needed amendment of the Public Finance Balance Act, which has overly affected and caused injustices and is very likely to interfere with their constitutional rights. If the opposition wants to correct the Public Finance Balance Act in the future in accordance with commitments made not only by the opposition but also by some coalition parliamentary groups, then it is necessary to adopt this amendment in order to provide, in the 2013 budget, the necessary resource for the realization of the rights that people have and in which it has infringed the Public Finance Balance Act in cities. This is one of those points where we can manifest a bias towards new logic, where we will no longer take people, but we will invest in their security, in order to reduce this climate of fear in our community, allow people to breathe, to survive, to increase their social security field. I am pleased with this amendment and will continue to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mrs. Renata Brunskole, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u108	Thank you very much. This amendment would restore those constitutional rights of pensioners, which were taken from them by Article 143 ZUJF. It's 27 thousand 180 beneficiaries. In Article 143, the Law for an indefinite period limited the growth of certain budget expenditure intended to cover the difference between the revenue and expenditure of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia and the financing of specific rights. This is the case with some 8 thousand of them – most of them – who have spent part of their working life in the former SFRJ, including NOB fighters, refugees, internees, former military insurers, former workers of internal affairs and detention agencies, prisons, beneficiaries of the active military service in JLA, and beneficiaries of the Law on the correction of wrongs, including exceptional pensions, forcibly mobilised, administratively retired under the Internal Affairs Act. The savings in this area for 2013 were estimated by the Government at 80.5 million and the Government's proposal for new pension legislation also affects pensions, which is why we cannot agree in Positive Slovenia. In this case, there are also cases where contributions to pension and disability insurance have been paid. Therefore, with this amendment, we want to restore the constitutional right that pensioners had, and we are returning to the budget the funds that should have been provided for the payment of pensions to individuals who already belonged to them. I therefore propose that we support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u109	Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I was already afraid that my colleague Frangež would escape from the hall and it would not be right for me to make a procedural proposal in his absence. I would very much like to ask, given that the distinguished colleague Frangež, who earlier said that politics — I am adding fair policies — spoke of the unconstitutionality of the provisions if you give him the word that he can give us the number of the constitutional decision and the date of the constitutional decision. Otherwise, I would expect an apology from the Slovenian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u111	Unfortunately, your procedural proposal is not in the context of the rules of procedure in force in this national assembly, so I cannot give Mr Frangež a word. However, I agree with you that in the National Assembly, we often make judgments on areas for which we are not competent. We'll open another circle. We have concluded with the first round of discussions on the first amendment. I'm opening another round of debate on this same amendment. Mr. Matovž Frangež and Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. But once again, Mr Frangež, we are discussing the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u112	My colleague Horvat correctly warned me – indeed, perhaps a hard word about unconstitutionality has been used, but I would point out that this article of the Public Finance Balance Act has been repeatedly attacked by a requirement for a constitutional review. These requirements contain the belief that it is an attack on constitutionally protected values and, of course, the Constitutional Court is expected to judge the existence of such unconstitutional consequences and its decision on this communication. Your procedural proposal or your reaction to my debate is undoubtedly correct in this regard, but let me add only this, your coalition, respected Jože, has dared to write in its initiatives to assess constitutionality everything possible with a clear definition of the unconstitutionality of the existing regime, let's say in the field of corporate governance regulation in this country. There you did not claim that the Constitutional Court should judge anything; there you said that the existing regime was unconstitutional. I admit my mistake, I should be more receptive in my words and refer to my belief that the provision of Article 143 of the ZUJF is unconstitutional and I am sure of it, but at the same time I expect you as a coalition Member who voted in favour of the constitutional review request, say a referendum on the Slovenian state holding, to apologize equally for the very clear and categorical claims in that text. My friend Jože, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u113	Mag. Barbara Squire Tavsh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. Not only did we advocate a constitutional solution to certain legislative proposals, but we were led by the concern for the dignity of our citizens and citizens in this amendment. I must say that we have pursued these two objectives, which have in some way been positively achieved as part of the coordination of pension reform, where we know that we have, in fact, unanimously supported not only pension reform, but also the deletion of Article 403 that pursued the objective of the basic proposal, which, in fact, was already followed by the Public Finance Balance Act of May. I say that this law unlawfully intervened in the rights of Slovenian pensioners and pensioners, 170 of them. If we were able to protect these people in the pension reform and repay them in some way with dignity, I say that it is right to do so today. That's why we proposed an amendment. If you allow me, because my colleagues have negotiated before me on constitutionality, unconstitutionality, alleged unconstitutionality, I will remind you of the Ombudsman's annual report, where it is, but I do not know now which side, very clearly stated that what has been done with ZUJF constitutes an unacceptable intervention in the principle of constitutionality. I didn't literally quote her words, if you insist, I can do that too, you just have to give me time to go after the Ombudsman's annual report, but the point is the same. It is therefore essential that the Ombudsman submits to the Constitutional Court a constitutional assessment or a request for a constitutional assessment of the contested Article 143 of the Public Finance Balance Act. The amendment and I are correcting the mistake that has been made.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u115	Thank you very much. However, I propose that we leave the assessment of what is in accordance with the Constitution and what is not to the Constitutional Court. But everyone can have an opinion on this. I'm asking if anyone else would like to discuss the first amendment. If not, I am closing the debate on this amendment and moving on to budget user 2130, this is the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. I am putting into discussion the amendments of the SD Group to the Mines sub-programme and the rehabilitation of mining damage. I expect a debate. Anyone else? Any more wishes for the debate? If not, please, Mr Bevk – you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! With the user, I propose to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology that the sub-programme increase the mines and the recovery of mining damage by EUR 500 000. On the basis of the Law on the Prevention of the Effects of Mining in the Mercury Mine, Idrija will be implementing by the end of 2012, according to the end of this year, a programme of maintenance of the indefatigable part of the cave and monitoring after final closures for the period 2008-2012 adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in 2007. The programme also included the payment of mining damage. A programme has already been prepared for the maintenance of the indemnified part of the cave and monitoring in the Idrija Mercury Mine for the period 2013-2017, produced by the mercury mine in the liquidation of May this year. This programme would cost €233 000 per year and €6 million per five-year period. This programme would require €540 000 in 2013 to remedy mining damage. These resources are significantly lower in the 2013 and 2014 draft budgets than in the programme. After the destruction of the mine, care will still have to be taken to maintain the indemnified part of the cave, monitor the closures, repair the environment and mining damage, and ensure the management and maintenance of the rich cultural, natural and technical heritage associated with the Idrija mine, which since June of this year has been on the UNESCO World Heritage List. In order to implement this programme, it is also essential to establish the functioning of the public institution, the Centre for the Management of the Heritage of Mercury, established by the Government in July 2011 as a condition for entry into the Unesc list, and unfortunately this centre is not yet operational. Next week Idrija will also be officially awarded a World Heritage Mark to UNESCO, Spain and Slovenia with the presence of high representatives of UNESCO. In view of all these activities and the 2013-2017 programme, I have proposed and tabled an amendment, or our Group of Members, to increase funds by EUR 500 000 for maintenance, monitoring and mining damage, and the same amendment is also tabled for the 2014 budget. I appeal that these two amendments be adopted and, above all, that the Government accelerate all activities to establish a centre for the pursuit of the heritage of mercury. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u117	Anybody else want some? Procedurally, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u118	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Given that several amendments relate to different areas, i.e. specifically to the area of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the next in the area of roads, I ask whether the representatives of the Government will give answers to the amendments. Some who are here cover certain areas, but not economies, not infrastructure, and I think it would be absolutely necessary to get explanations from the Government, why some amendments cannot be supported or how it will approach the situations that we are referring to in these amendments. So, I ask if perhaps someone will be present by the economy and transport as well as further, in the field of education, where we have tabled amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u119	Thank you, Mr. Weber. I share your wish. I think it would be right if the government's representatives would give answers to these amendments, but not all of them. Some of them are here, and the minister will probably call when his area, his department comes in, and the secretary of state, and I don't know about the others. The government has been invited and the debate can take place without the participation of the Government. However, I agree that it would be good for the Government to be better represented. Let's move on. Budget user 2431, Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. I am putting forward three amendments to the Social Democrats' Group's sub-programme on Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. He's discussing Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. I would like to discuss all three amendments that do not last relate to the 3A development axis. In previous years, we have talked a great deal about the need for the development of Slovenia in areas where it is not expected that a motorway will be built, but that these areas need to be connected with an appropriate road or with a railway connection to motorways or international railway tracks to enable the development of the economy and, in particular, to enable the appropriate mobility of the population living in these areas. These three amendments relate specifically to the implementation of the special programme adopted by the previous Government. Not only have we succeeded with the Pomour law, which we wanted to boost economic growth and ensure jobs, but the previous government has also adopted a programme on the development of Pomura. This programme includes the Belokranje Municipality of Semič, Metlika, Črnomelj, as well as the Kočemelj municipality, which includes the Municipality of Kostel, Osilnica, Kočevje and not least the Loški Potok. In this programme of implementation of the Pocolpium is also a specific item 3A of the development axis relating to road renewal and the construction of railway infrastructure. These three amendments speak of the modernisation of roads and the construction of those measures that would allow a safer and faster connection of the nomadic with our capital and with the highway cross. In the first amendment, we propose to increase funds for investment maintenance of state roads, amounting to EUR 400 000, which we believe could lead the Roads Directorate to the preparation of documentation and to the implementation of certain measures that are necessary to improve the elements of this road link. The fact is that both the international institution that reviewed the safety situation on this road and all the domestic institutions involved have found that this is the road, which is, lastly, called the road of death, due to extremely dangerous road elements. It is a narrow road that is built for a total of 80 km per hour, not even the current 90 km, as long as it is allowed and prescribed speed by law, that is more than these road elements actually allow. It is a narrow road, it is an impenetrable section, and it also causes many accidents with the worst results. The EUR 400,000 is the minimum that we want to encourage and enable the Directorate to speed up the preparation of project documentation, which would later implement measures to improve these road elements. The next amendment, which amounts to EUR 200 000, aims to prepare a national spatial plan for Velika Lašče, Ribnica, and thus avoid the dangers posed by traffic because it is a main road, driving through settlements. This threatens the weakest, i.e. children involved in road transport, as well as all the people who perform daily tasks and face the dangers posed by traffic through these settlements. This is a State Spatial Plan, so it is the responsibility of the State to prepare all the documentation necessary to enable these bonds to begin construction. The next amendment refers to the Kočevska cycling link, which is intended mainly for the largest municipality on the surface of Slovenia, to build a cycling link along the road and thus allow the mobility of people along the cycling track and access to schools, as many settlements are quite far from the center where schools are. This safe cycling link would provide a significantly safer way to go to schools and to communicate with all the people living outside the center outside Kočevje’s centre. The cycling link itself also has a broader status, as it is a link that continues to the border with the Republic of Croatia and means an international cycling link, which is also important due to the tourist offer and road safety. Therefore, all these measures relate to the fulfilment of the 2011 government commitment. On 7 April 2011, the programme was adopted and for the 3rd development axis and for the 3rd development axis in the White Krajina, EUR 254 million were foreseen and the project financing dynamics are determined by the State budget. In these two state budgets, there are no more concrete amounts to follow the Government's decision, which is also binding on this government, because the Pocolpa programme speaks of all sectoral policies in the Government as a priority in addressing areas with very large developmental problems. Thus, the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure is also committed to giving priority to both the 3rd development axis leading towards Pocolp, as well as the 3rd development axis leading towards Kočevski. All of this is not in these two draft budgets. Given that the President of the Government spoke yesterday about the need for early regional development and the equitable development of this area, I would like to hear and particularly to hear an argument why the Government's decision not to take into account that these areas have priority and will be removed from the deficit in regional development in these areas, where unemployment is significantly greater than elsewhere in Slovenia. We are still facing a number of 20% and more, and this is the situation that has been the basis for the previous government's decision to give priority to all these areas. Once again, the conclusions are binding on the current government. Since this is not a high amount, I hope that the coalition will understand the situation in which the nomadic fishing area and Bela Krajina are located and support these amendments and thus enable it to carry out what is binding also on the transport sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u121	Anyone else? Here you go, Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! I'll be very brief. Unfortunately, I also note that there are no representatives of those ministries whose amendments are under discussion. It would be wise for Minister Žerjav to be present earlier when I discussed it, this time Minister Cernač. At least this practice has been in previous years that ministers have come to that part of the debate that has specifically touched the departments they are leading. I also expected that, in this debate, whether a real development plan for transport infrastructure will be able to obtain assurance that this government will be able to draw all the funds from the European funds so that we can implement the transport infrastructure development programme plan. Only in this way will we be able to build and somehow maintain and modernise road infrastructure in the country, because budget resources are insufficient. Just in terms of transport infrastructure, only 20% of the funds were spent in the period 2007-2013, so it would be right for ministers to come and present how real this budget is drawn up in order to get concrete answers to specific questions. Otherwise, I support the amendments that we are now talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u123	If there is no longer a desire to discuss, we are moving to budget user 2611, Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. I am putting to the debate the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to the Sub-programme Creation of Jobs. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u124	Thank you. In the debate so far, there has been a wide range of promises or ideas on how to encourage job creation. At the Ministry of Finance, data on how many new jobs have already been created by these strong measures cannot be found. Therefore, I promise you that you will support an amendment that weighs 10 million — 10 million is significantly less than one billion — to remind me of that. However, this is an amendment aimed at creating new jobs mainly for hard-working or harder-working groups. It is so-called structural unemployment when some incentives are needed for the economy to take on the work of such people. These are often older people, people with an education, but they are usually involved in public works, and public works are expected to bring permanent employment further. This is certainly in line with the interpretation of the doctrine that the person who left the labour market must be reintroduced as soon as possible into the labour market in order to maintain his positive self-image and not to be disturbed by the work experience. Given the anticipated reform of the labour market, after which this very age of unemployed workers should be ready to accept any work – we do not know what will happen to the law below – opening up the possibility of employment is so much more important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u125	Thank you. We are moving to budget user 3330, Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia to the Sub-programme Young Researchers of Mobility and Encouragement of the Best Researchers. Here you go, Mr. Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u126	Thank you very much. In every society, there are some above average people, young people, older people, those who are then elephants of society. And these people are about 3% in every society, in every nation. Now we can quickly figure out how many of these there are in Slovenia. We are relatively few in the 550-million-dollar European community, and these people then drive or help to drive research, science and so on. These above-average, talented, then split up, some go to the economy, some go to music, some go to art, some go to sports and so on. And then we are left with those we are talking about now, young researchers who are doing some important, more important work, some think less important work. Look, just for comparison. 10 years ago, we were at about 60% of the European average per million people in Slovenia; today we are at 125% of the European average. This means that our school system recognizes good, quality, and successful individuals, and if it recognizes them, it is not as bad as it sometimes sounds. Five years ago, the income from patents was around 70% of the European average, today at 100% or in Slovenia we are in the tenth or eleventh place in Europe. However, with the last budget, we reached out to this area with the 2012 budget and reduced the funds by 21 million. With this budget, we will again reach into it and reduce it by another 14 million. The people who run these institutions have told us there will be forgiveness and if there is forgiveness, it is not older researchers, but in most cases for younger ones. These kids are gonna leave. It's not so bad that they go, but there will be no new researchers. Young, successful, talented, overly talented will find other things, some other areas where they will meet their needs, that can be frightening. Young people’s hopes, young researchers, or young people who are gifted and successful will be abandoned to some extent. If we're talking about this nation, if we're dealing with something, then we have to invest here, I've said many times that it's an investment in young people, in researchers, in development, in science, in the best investments. I cannot imagine economic development unless we have and support research, science and development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u127	Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u128	Thank you, Mr. President. We also support this amendment in the Parliamentary Common Social Democrats because we believe that in our society, it has been demonstrated from experience that projects aimed at young researchers have always been returned with multiples. According to the OECD, each contribution to a higher education individual is returned by a five-fold or six-fold, because they are prepared for high-value jobs. I would like to point out that, according to the latest Eurostat data, as many as half of businesses, economic operators, smaller, medium and larger ones, who have a well-developed innovative activity, should therefore be encouraged to involve young researchers. The picture is worse in registered and certified patents, but this is not due to poor skills, but in very expensive procedures and complicated patent application procedures. Whatever the case, if I refer to the data of the domestic statistical profession, which some do not have the best opinion about, but if you look at it, thousands of people are slowly growing in number of researchers. From 5.4 in 2000 to 9.4 in 2010. I'm not going to tell you how high the numbers are in other countries. It seems to me that thesis in the letter of the Rectors of the three public and one private universities should be recalled that higher education is the best export activity. So let us finance, encourage research, and give young people open opportunities! Now, to remain an old feminist, in particular, it is important to ensure that women's participation in research and development is increased because the biggest weakness is right here, if we look at the number of graduates, there is much more women, and then there is a shortage in their follow-up activities, doctoral studies, or activities in precisely such institutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u129	The next amendment to the same budgetary user, the Ministry of Education, science You would still discuss the previous amendment, Mr. Weber? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. To this amendment, which allocates funds to young researchers, I would like to point out the following fact that 26 million are indeed taking place in respect of the obligations arising from the servicing of the interest on the basis of domestic debt and the behaviour that these interest rates are becoming increasingly expensive. However, it seems to me that reprogramming these obligations, i.e. the shift in these obligations, would be more manageable than if we did not invest in young researchers. For if we provide research, we will ensure development and in the future also increase funds in the budget. So it seems to me that this measure is one that would be valid for supporting it and allowing science to pave the way for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u131	Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u132	Thank you very much. This amendment is extremely attractive and works positively, because I believe that there is no one in this room who would not be willing to invest in young researchers. And also incentives for the best researchers – but in this second work you need to be more careful, because perception, who are the best researchers, is very different in Slovenian science and Slovenian academic circles. Some create it based on the hallo of effect, image and access to resources, so at least with the hallo effect, by saying that they are excellent researchers and good relationships. And this is not spilling into new products. Even though they have been parasitic for 20 years, they don't have one world-renowned article to quote elsewhere, which is the best reference to be really successful when it comes to [[Incomprehensible]] science, science, In this matter, care should be taken if the money comes if it is put in the right hands. Secondly, I am extremely interested in the proposaler, because you wrote that these funds would be exported from the means of servicing interest on the basis of domestic debt. This means that interest on credit does not have to be paid. Now, because it's coming from your client because you were in charge in the previous government, I wonder if you've entered into such contracts that you didn't have to service the loans on interest. You have made interest-free loans, and the country is still receiving World Interest Bank accounts. Do these interest go somewhere else, to any other accounts? And it could be taken there. You have to explain, or I don't think it makes sense that you're in debt to the country, but now you'd say we're not paying back. That's how it is. It seems to me that the amendment would be significantly more acceptable if we found an account from which we could actually take it. However, if you have entered into contracts without the interest returning to go somewhere else, this is some special fund that the state does not know about, then this is another; but you must tell the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u133	Mr. Franz Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President! This is precisely what we owe a billion 870 million in 2010 and a billion 500 thousand million in 2011, and the budget for this year 2012 is in charge of a billion and some after the rebalancing, the proposal for 2013 is under a billion debt, and a large part of this debt in 2013 will go unfortunately to pay off the interest. But it is true, as I have always warned – three years ago, in fact from 2008 onwards – that the use of European funds has been pervasive. And now to build, I will say demagogy on these amendments, who would now support science, who would support culture, for lunches and so on, as amendments follow, and forget that those who led the country in 2009 in Brussels have spent 290 million. That's where they left them. In 2010, they left 427 million, I am only talking about what was adopted in the final account and about implementation, namely the budget which was finally adopted and realized in the final account. In 2011, about 200 million were left behind, and if we add it up, we come up with one billion. Do you remember how many times I have pointed out that we will leave even a billion euro in Brussels from 4.2 billion for the period 2007-2013? Well, if I look at these latest data now, I see that the only funds used are in the agricultural field, but not in the other sectors and operational programmes. Can you imagine how many research institutions, how many research tasks, how many young engineers, scientists could work if they had this money at their disposal, or if they had this money, what would these European funds mean? They mean the approximation of the European Union average. So if we had those funds, we'd have taken advantage of them, I'm afraid we didn't. Even though this has been prepared by our government, I fear it will not be realized, it will not! Not in 2013 and not in 2014. A billion 400 and almost one billion in 2014 is inflowing European funds, because it was simply the biggest problem in calls I have warned about all along. I don't know if you understand what that means. In 2010, there were €2 billion in calls and €80 million in 2011. It's all stopped in this area. And now I'm going to say that this anger that people express, this discontent also comes from the fact that politics has been irresponsible, irresponsible to use and take things into the investment cycle and into the scientific research activity in higher education – if you want, even in secondary school, some of the projects in the funds are connected even with primary schools. The most obvious presentation of today's budget is, as it is very exact and clear to everyone, my colleague Starman, that we cannot owe more than we have. And what we owe us should be cut off so that we don't pay any more for this debt tomorrow, and consequently, unfortunately, it will be back in research, science, art, culture and so on, unfortunately even less for the quality of life of our youngest. I am very sorry, and I do not think it appropriate that some of the programmes adopted by the previous Government during the period 2004-2008 cannot be implemented in this Government, but precisely because of this. Today was a lot to hear about the tables, the debt, and I don't know what it's all about. On the other hand, the opposition opposes any measure that would lead to savings. As my colleague Starman said, this billion debt should be scaled down, and that's the only way if we want to go all the way forward tomorrow. And now we're not gonna have that, because we're just gonna spend it that way. From our public data, from Umar, we had 8 billion debts in 2008, which is 22% of gross domestic product. In 2011, ladies and gentlemen, 16.9, almost 17 billion, that is 47% of gross domestic product debt. Those who write these amendments, in which you can perform like-mindedly, the Positive Slovenia Group, sat next to the minister, who was far more responsible than the director or director of the budget, all those three years when we were more than doubled public debt by 8.7 billion, and brought us into a catastrophic situation. Don't tell me I'm the only one who won't be able to support this amendment against the science that I'm against culture, that I'm against education, that I'm against scientific activity, against lunches, and I don't know what it's all about. It's incomprehensible that we can pretend like this. One more thing, and I'll finish it. Look, how many times did the then Prime Minister and Finance Minister tell me that we're responsible for what we're doing? Yes, with what, my dear politicians, do we answer? By losing at the end of the election or not, that's all. So, no other, unfortunately, there's no other responsibility. Even though Minister Križanič later admitted in 2010 that slow pumping threatens the financing of European projects. He himself spoke about this when we arrived with concrete projects and with clear questions. Indeed, you know how much internal harassment there has been about who will be the bearer of this money, these European funds. He also said that the European Union's funds were a disaster because they simply could not – even so far. You know, when those of you who are making these amendments today adopted the 2011 budget rebalancing, you changed the budget, namely, the budget deficit will increase with the rebalancing. This is also the fault, and it is also your fault that today, unfortunately, we cannot give more money to this science and information society. Where did you increase your funds? It says this: higher salaries in the state administration – that is, you changed the balance because you increased salaries in the state administration – less funds for investments, less to subsidise businesses and more for the unemployed. These were items, and today, without a historical memory or what you've been doing, you're proposing vehemently: take it here, take it there. You show indicators of how we lose or how we will continue to grow in debt or in increasing debt in the form of gross domestic product. Colleagues and colleagues, all the amendments you've made if you were working properly and honestly in those places where you were the director, who was very smart today, and then the director of the budget, would be happy to support and give some 100,000 euros, or half a million euros, because it would only benefit our society, because it would only benefit our development, but unfortunately we can't. My colleague Starman said that this billion more needs to be sliced if we want to start living in two years just from what we create. Now, whatever we do, we're going to do to make sure that we pay these loans, interest, and so on, and take our students and students. It's not fair, it's not right, but you brought us here. Mrs. Bratusek, you must have one of the greatest responsibilities here.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u135	Mr. Joseph Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Now I know all about this amendment. Now I really got all the information I needed, what would I do if I did, and if it wasn't. That's right, this amendment has been so well explained now, why don't you support yourself! Look, we're not talking about a bunch of amendments, we're talking about an amendment that's not scary about this budget. My friend Tanko used to talk about a billion. Look, let's give up 950 million, and if you give them 50 million for education and science, for development, this country will certainly go with a better condition in the coming years. But who will bring this country out of the crisis, how and by what, we can face the numbers at a game with the 550 million nations and so on? In what way and with what? With knowledge, with our head. With development and with it. Of course, good hands, diligence and so forth are needed, but three percent of people who are creative guide our development, science and then economic growth. If we cut them down here, if we step on their fingers here, then I really don't know how we're going to face the crisis and how you're going to accelerate this economic development. That's certainly not the way it is. If we point to what happened and what would have happened if it had been, it doesn't make sense. And today, as we speak, let's go together. So we're gonna have to listen to each other a little bit. We're not just idiots here. I'm sorry. We're not just idiots. It's proven that we're not. But I guess we're not cooperative enough for you not to listen to us, not to want to, maybe when you really do, you'll take our thoughts away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u137	Mag. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u138	Mr Pukšič, you and your performance are being evaluated as they assess it. On Saturday, I first checked on the committee to see who was behind this budget. You will not believe that Minister and Mr Shircelj said that the Government and the Minister of Finance and not those responsible at the Ministry of Finance, at the Directorate of Budget. But if we make a deal, I take responsibility for it, and you leave everything in your congregation that was good done when you were mayor, your director of the municipal administration, we have a deal. Because when something's bad, you'd hang it from someone else when it's good, and you'd bring the minister, the president of the government, and you as mayor. Amendment, the proposal is to provide funds for young researchers, mobility and incentives to best researchers and to reduce public debt servicing. If we kept our promises and great words about the end of the debt, we could pick up more here than we have now proposed, Mr Pukšič. More. More. Unfortunately, your government will also increase your debt by 50%, and this is the IMF data. The IMF! Not Alenka Brother! 50%! So maybe you're talking a little bit less about the past, what was wrong, because when you leave town, you're going to have about the same percentage. Once again, at the end of the day, the government takes great powers to redistribute and will be able to redistribute all this manna on interest that will happen — if you really care about young people, science and research — in accordance with its powers under the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. We could know that as mayor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u139	Mr. Franz Puksich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u140	Mrs Bratušek, I am proud of all that we have done in our congregation, but I have not attached to any matter a hint that this has been my success, but it was the success of 2 000 756 citizens and citizens of the congregation of Destrunnik, including those of the citizens who baked bread, sweat and brought them to the opening. Without all this success, it wouldn't be. So I don't have a problem with that. I have already told you, Mrs Bratušek, on national television that you have a plus for that plus which was in 2008, at the end of the Janša government with 40 million surplus – you are also guilty of this in a positive way. You're even more guilty because you didn't stand up as an expert and say you won't do it because it's taking the country to disaster. Mrs Bratušek, it is your personal fault, one of the most guilty, that you owe the country from 8 billion 180 million to 16 billion 954 million in 2009, 2010 and 2011.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u141	Mr Pukšič, this personal accusation does not fall within the context of the debate on this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u142	Mr President, it is true that I have not done this before around the amendment, but I am only answering Mrs Bratušek to what she has said about me personally. All right, I'll skip this. Mrs Bratušek, you will agree that at the same time, your Minister, Dr Križanič, was bent by the Ministry of the Use of European Resources, that certain things were not carried away and that you were sitting in these colleges. Among other things, it has been written that applications are traditionally submitted after the source in the first months of the year, thus slowing down as employees have been tired since the end of the year. The Ministry of Finance points out, however, that we have a substantial number of applications for the European Commission at that time. Here is even a table by ministries, how many millions of euros were not invested in 2011 for reimbursement. I want to say again, but nothing more than that I would be happy to have a coalition member who could say that we are increasing science so much, regional development so much, to support the small economy so much and so much, but colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we must clearly say that what we have eaten will be paid for. No lunch is free, you've eaten it, and the people are paying for it. You've eaten it and the people are paying for it! Unfortunately, we've been through this before, and with this damn shit, we have to get the country out. You're not capable of it. I'm sorry. I'm not capable of it. This coalition, this coalition won't get one plus a point for that. This is a coalition that saves the country, and it's not a coalition that shares, like you did.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u143	Mr Pukšič, I propose a somewhat more dignified, calm debate and, above all, the amendment that has been tabled. Procedurally, Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u144	Dear President, otherwise you have now warned Ambassador Puksic, but would like to make a procedural suggestion that all those in charge of these meetings agree to strictly warn Members when they abuse their debates for the personal insults of Members and so on, under the cover of immunity, commit a crime of regret or infringing accusations, and the Member has no opportunity to react accordingly. The colleague will call on him, in any event, to say the same thing outside the premises of the National Assembly, which would give her more opportunity to initiate appropriate proceedings against Mr Puksic and others who do so repeatedly in the context of the discussions, abuse the topic and do not behave properly to the Members of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u145	I agree with you. I suggest we really avoid making personal accusations. It works for everyone. We go to the next amendment, this is still an amendment with the budgetary user the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport. We are talking about the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to support cultural activities. Mr. Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u146	Maribor is European in 2012 [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Can I have a minute? Thank you very much. Maribor is the European Capital of Culture in 2012. More than 500 projects have been implemented this year, 500 projects that have revived a city that has revived life in partner cities and proved that culture is an important generator of social, economic and social development. With this amendment, we want the Social Democrats to achieve that the success and sustainable effects of the European Capital of Culture will not come to an end as soon as the European culture project itself is completed at the end of this year. No! No! We want those development effects of the European Capital of Culture, which need to be strengthened in order to become sustainability, to become a permanent element of life in the city and in partner cities, to be supported by the continued budgetary co-financing of the Maribor 2012 Institute, by the excellent teams that have carried out the European Capital of Culture project, which has launched a complex business process at that time, to gain experience, to become an integrated team capable of further successful European funding. The European Capital of Culture project carried out a number of projects, from cultural to social, to economic initiatives, which showed the new identity of Maribor at a time when it was looking for its new future in the post-industrial period. I believe that we all agree that Maribor needs good, positive messages and I call on this National Assembly to support this amendment in order to provide a minimum amount of resources to continue the mission of the European Capital of Culture and to consolidate the sustainable effects of EUR 500 000 in 2013 and EUR 500 000 in 2014. However, I believe that Majda Potrate, as co-author of this amendment, as an excellent cultural acquaintance, will further substantiate this ambition.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u147	And now she's really going to do it. Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President! The European Capital of Culture project, which is usually placed at two different ends of Europe, has experienced many changes over the years and in such an emerging form as in Maribor with partner cities, is something quite special. Perhaps also because financial circumstances have cut into everything that the project would in fact bring as a development stimulus with new venues to the city itself. Matthew Frangez and I will not discuss the missed opportunities for which we are to blame in the city alone, there is a great deal of responsibility in the situations we are in, but it must be said that the project has opened up a whole new dimension. I am primarily thinking about how he could attract vulnerable groups to various activities. Since it has been set up in an organisational scheme to connect all activities with the Maribor 2012 Institute, it would be good to maintain the functioning of this institution in the future. I am sure that the National Assembly, at least the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth will continue to talk about this project if the project has to give up the concluding event scheduled for December 15th, and because of the famous events in Maribor it is now in the air because we know what time we are, and some mass outdoor events can be the subject of someone else, events can be stolen. I don't know what leadership is going to do, but I'm sure it will decide to seize the opportunity and success of the European Capital of Culture to present it to the National Assembly, because it will end with what it all began in the State Assembly. Let it not be an emphasis on large investments if there is no possibility for them, but let us make sure that the project is carried out in a substantive way. That is what I think it is and that it has satisfied the tastes of different population groups, age, professions and tastes. But we don't argue about taste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u149	Thank you. Minister Turk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u150	However, I can say something – I did not intend to sign up, but I would like to commend my colleagues at the Ministry, including the opposition and the National Assembly. As far as the European Capital of Culture is concerned, however, the country has fulfilled its part of the obligation and we can be pleased that at least, as regards public funding by the State, this project will be carried out, I will say, as planned. There are some other problems we're trying to solve at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u151	Mr. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u152	Mr. Minister, I share your assessment, but I don't want a good project to come up empty. It takes a year or two to provide sustainable funding. Look, there's a joke on Maribor that says, "Who says the old city center doesn't live?" In these weeks he lives very well, thousands and thousands of Mariborians go to the streets and squares, but I tell you, this year the old city centre of Maribor has lived as long as it has not been, because it is a statue of cultural creation. Wherever you looked, wherever you went, there was music, there was a touch of art. The city lived with the European Capital of Culture, Maribor paid an extremely high price for independence and transition. This is one of the development projects that we have left, and I say that the Maribor 2012 Institute team and the thousands of people who created it have done well. Let us give these minimum resources to ensure that this project and its effects continue. I respectfully ask that the Government define itself for this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u153	Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u154	See, the EPK – the European Capital of Culture for Maribor is an extremely successful project and for the country of Slovenia, there is absolutely no doubt. And I'm glad that I went to high school in this town and I kind of gravitated there. Indeed Maribor has changed, absolutely, especially the city's core. We even have to admit that to Kangler. The square of Leon Stuklja is an incredible acquisition for Maribor. The last time there were demonstrations, I tweeted, "that some came to the market and I hope that out of hatred or those inflames no one will break Leon Stukl Square". Because Maribor has actually changed. And this change attracted about 70% more tourists to Maribor according to official data. That is why it seems to me that we must give this team, director and programme leader Mitja Chandru all recognition at this moment, because Maribor has changed permanently. I am sorry that this project ends in a time of unrest, dissatisfaction that causes a completely different cause, in the social and really difficult image of Maribor, which in fact was not saved in 20 years when all the heavy industry collapsed in Maribor. It was, once called the Yugoslav Manchester, the textile industry, the automotive industry, all of this went bankrupt in the previous regime or later. The European Capital of Culture is a project that has really brought back some hope and has lasting benefits. I think you made a big mistake. These funds should be sought within tourism, within the economy, because it seems to me that this amendment, according to what source you are looking for, cannot be realized. Because sending me a signal that we won't be paying off any more debts is a bad message. I think that it will be possible to find some minimum means to round up this successful project in the coming years from other sources, which the state can do, and these funds are already coming back through Maribor tourism. That's where I think we need to find a long-term resource and some resources for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u155	Let's go to the next amendment. We are still with the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport. Procedurally, Mr. Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u156	I'd like to ask the Minister to define himself for this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u157	Minister Turk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Look, we're working, we've had quite a few meetings last month – and we'll have them this month – how to keep the EPK's core team together, and how to train it to acquire European funds, either directly in Brussels or here in Ljubljana. So these efforts are ongoing and to some extent included in the budget as proposed by the Government. However, we cannot afford that some of the resources allocated to the European Capital of Culture, which was unique, would become some kind of belt that would drag on over the years. As I say, the team is quality and we will help to draw on the various resources available for such network cultural activities in Slovenia and directly in Brussels through an increase in the European Union's cultural budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u159	The same budgetary user, the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to the sub-programme Activities of higher education. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u160	Thanks again. The Group of Social Democrats proposes a slightly revised number for the plenary session, from 20 million to 16, hoping to receive understanding and support. Why is that? Higher education lost 20 million. We do not demand miracles, we do not demand unreachable and unfulfilled ones, but only enough that after the Bologna reform we can execute programmes in which students have already entered and for which they are threatened not to be able to be carried out. At universities, they find that the ZUJF ordered savings in 2012 reduced costs by 2%. Savings in the following year may also be only 2%. This, however, is essentially insufficient for the quality of the study process to be carried out, and it is simply a matter of whether we are advocates of quality or not. I join the appeal of the Rector's Conference and appeal to Members and Members to support this amendment. After all, the vast majority of us sitting here have graduated from one of these universities. The quality and success of American universities – Mr Minister will remember that I have already quoted this information once before – has been possible to read in one of the Slovenian media – is growing out of the commitment and commitment of former students to their institution. We were lucky to study for free. We were lucky that some of us could study abroad and secure a good job. Let's do something for this generation that's coming. I don't care if any of the coalition MPs say it's a nice amendment. This is not like the amendment, this is a necessary amendment, because those who are now going to be affected by the impoverishment of the university are going to carry it with them. They can take her somewhere else. And it's a shame that in this demographic picture we give up the most pulsating part of our population. I am very sorry that I have to say this and repeat that reading items in this budget is very difficult, because they remain only at the level of the programme and sub-programme, but the item is fully the activity of higher education. And then you don't even see the alertness of the situation, because you see that figure when you talk about higher education, but as if the funds for this area were growing, in fact, the growing number is only related to the fact that it includes investments. And I don't mind the investments, they have to be. Worse still, investment in art academyes is urgently needed in Ljubljana, so I do not say that any investment would be urgently needed elsewhere. But, as we say, cut it off from our future, let's not label it with our own decisions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u161	Mrs. Patricia Schuline.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u162	President, thank you for your word. I would now like to comment in general on all the amendments proposed by the more financial-accounting profession. I would point out that from this point of view they are unrealistic because of the fact that for all the items you have increased, you have taken interest from domestic debt servicing. Quickly, as far as I can tell, you have collected or want to collect around €180 million from this account, but we know that we have an interest of €800 million annually. This is said to be 2% that need to be replaced elsewhere, because we have to pay interest, we probably know that all of us who have ever been credited – the bank first collects interest and then starts paying the principal. So if we want to draw this 180 million euro out of the account 'Serviced interest on domestic debt' then we should still be in debt for 180 million euros. There is once again a debt account missing, which could then implement these amendments of yours. I agree that all these things that you have proposed at a total of just over 200 million euros are necessary, but today we have found quite a few times that the number of revenue is very clearly written and set. You are proposing some desire for better programs, after a better culture, after a better higher education – because I understand your amendments in this spirit, which is nothing wrong, but I ask you: Where to get from? The domestic debt interest service – who has ever worked in accounting – is very well aware that this account does not go from an accounting and financial perspective without additional debt. One more thing, if European funds were to be used better in the first five years – as we know, only EUR 700 million – if we were to draw as much as we had at our disposal, that is, about four billion and target them correctly, then there was no need to be in charge of social transfers in those years. However, since we have committed ourselves, we have an annual interest of EUR 800 million, which we have to pay back. You've hung these amendments on interest we have to pay back. If you want to implement the amendments, we must, I repeat, be in charge of EUR 200 million, which I personally disagree with, and that is why I will not support these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u163	Thank you. Just a comment, just as you discussed the amendment, is drawn from the second item, I think that payments are made to the European budget. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u164	Thank you, President. Well, because of the same budget item as you pointed out, I wanted to point out myself. This is not about taking the money to pay the interest, but this amendment is about paying the contribution to the European Union budget and only 16 million is about the amount. I hope, however, that this call by the National Assembly would result in at least one amendment of the opposition being adopted, especially since the source from which we are taking funds is really the least problematic which can be found in this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u165	Replica, Mrs. Patricia Shulin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Comrade Webber, we didn't get along. In the last part, I discussed all the proposed amendments and limited myself to those amendments for which you proposed to draw funds from our debts — about 180 million of them. I've noticed that you've not only done this, but you've proposed an account for some of the others. With this last talk, you propose drawing from financial stability and payment of funds to the European Union budget of €16 million. If I'm not mistaken, we have a commitment here, too. So, unfortunately, this isn't going to work either, and next time I suggest you propose amendments, find those accounts where this is going. He can't get out of accounts where we're already committed to paying for these funds. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u167	Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u168	I do not know if it is necessary, but indeed, the payment of the contribution to the budget of the European Union is the easiest to manage. Wherever we put the amendment, we need to take it somewhere so you can tell us where you're going to put it. Look, we're talking about higher education and universities are warning that they won't survive. So, what is more important: to invest 16 million in the European budget or to keep universities alive or to allow young students and all young people who want to study to do so? I don't think there really should be any doubt.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u169	We have concluded the debate on this amendment. We have the next amendment to the same budgetary user of the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, namely the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to the Sub-programme Food of Students, Students and Students. Dr. Andrei Black Nebula, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Kids are hungry, aren't they? This is what civil society organizations are telling us, this is what the media are telling us, and we are still gathering data. The fact is that the school diet has undergone two very important changes this year. The first relates to the implementation of social legislation which, with the general agreement of all Members and Members, sought to eliminate the accumulation of aid on the one hand and, on the other hand, to target the most vulnerable groups. Hence, it may have been that some who had previously received a number of forms of assistance have fallen out of this circle today. The second, and a much more important change, is linked to the so-called general subsidy for school meals. In the Republic of Slovenia, in the past period until the entry into force of the ZUJF, all students received a subsidy of two-thirds of the meal price. This meant 10.5 euros for primary school children and 31.32 euros for secondary school children. In addition, those who were socially disadvantaged received an additional subsidy, amounting to one third of the price of lunch, which meant plus 5.4 euros for the primary school child and 16.5 euros for the secondary school child. With the ZUJF we have abolished a total general subsidy, except for the social beneficiaries, I will tell those who belonged to this second category where the first and second subsidies were aggregated. However, social legislation has also resulted in a certain rash in the number of recipients. But what's important is that we did a very important study of the situation of poverty between families with children in the period before. And in that study, we found that the country is very good at caring for socially disadvantaged children, reducing or reducing the risk of child poverty by a variety of forms of subsidy aid, which is excellent. We are still among the most successful countries in Europe, although this has decreased slightly. On the other hand, those belonging to the lower middle class fall out of the beneficiary group. And what is happening today in our country, our colleagues and colleagues, is that the socially disadvantaged are becoming children of the lower middle class. Therefore, only some of the minimal corrections that I have heard are being prepared, not so much at lunches as at lunch, will not solve the problem that we have in this country today. The point is that we will have to cut down more thoroughly and correct the way the school diet is subsidised. We have drawn up the law, perhaps not the best, because it was produced in a very fast way and with very poor data – we do not have the expertise of the two ministries that can service us in this regard. We have prepared him in the best faith to remove the shame of this country, that our children are hungry. Together we can fix it, but it's still what's coming from the story and what's related to this amendment that we need more money for school meals. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u171	Time's up. It was the main thing you wanted to say. Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u172	My colleague Patricia Schulin, I'm counting on your support this time, twice. First of all, because you're a woman and I believe you have so much empathy that you understand that in our country we're talking about hungry children in primary school. And secondly, I count on you for your knowledge and knowledge of the financial and accounting profession. Help us if an account from which we take money for children is not acceptable for you to find another account. You're a member of the government coalition. We offer you a hand, we are prepared to change the account to, in procedure, be able to do so. We can put an amendment on the amendment. Let's fix the account! If I understand, just because the account is wrong, you won't support the amendment. I sincerely urge you, it is wrong to look away, thereby creating a different, different country and such a country I do not want. You smile, colleague Patricia Shulin, I appeal to you this time in this debate. Please, let's all listen together. You imagine the mother of three children, one with special needs, she was educated, but she didn't find herself a suitable job, a minimum wage garage, a father lost his job and in vain sought another, got drunk and became violent. My mother is physically and mentally ill. He doesn't have bills, he doesn't have kids to feed, his clothes are too short, his shoes are too small. It wasn't until they knocked on the door and took the last piece of furniture away that she fainted in front of us. One of the stories. Last time I drove in the car and listened to Val 202, you've probably already heard of the Boturity Project, for the better future of our children. There was a similar story. A story of a mother who was left alone with four young children. I'm not going to repeat the story because she really pushed me to the bottom of her soul, really moved me, but the call that was heard in the air of this mother's radio waves was that she wanted her children to have at least one free meal at school. As a result of the change in social security legislation and the ZUJF, they lost their right to free nutrition. Meanwhile, they have €350 of monthly income, just child income. Due to the long administrative procedures at the Centre for Social Work, they have not yet been granted a decision on eligibility for monetary social assistance. Meanwhile, Mother lost her money as an unemployed person. Such stories are discussed and the call of this mother is that her four minor children would have at least one free warm, healthy diet in school, because the reality of these children is – I will tell you because this story was publicly exposed – that they eat with dry pasta and that they are very happy when the mother pours a little oil over pasta. This is where all the logic of every account goes, dear colleague Patricia Shulin! He's missing, and you can't convince me that numbers are worth more than the content, the content that people stand for. Please and I call on you, too, Minister of State, you are preparing legislation and in the 2013 budget, 2014 I did not track the numbers that would solve the problem created by bad legislation. You don't have the data and you're doing the analysis. Please support the amendment, let us allow the possibility that the legislation will be amended accordingly and properly. There is no crisis that should make children hungry in primary schools.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u173	Mrs. Patricia Shulin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u174	President, thank you for your word. Surely we are all sensitive and sensitive to these stories. Like everyone else, these letters came to me. Without gathering political points, I responded to a number of letters, not only by words, but financially, materially and otherwise. I ask, colleague Barbara Žgajner Tavš, are you in a similar way, or are you just reading stories. As for the accounts, you're probably taught a lot better about this than I am. You are in this House. I think you have a second term at some point. So if we really wanted to act, we would put this amendment right. However, I think that the social law, with the legislation we have in force, makes it possible for the socially weaker to obtain funds, so that in primary and secondary schools social services are established, we have social work centres. Maybe in some cases these jobs work badly, that's how I hear it. Finally, these funds are also drawn from municipal budgets. However, I certainly agree with you that these cases should be significantly less in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u175	Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u176	No, these cases in our country shouldn't be. This is the first rule that must be clear to everyone. In the first place, we are called upon to do so by the politicians. That is why we are politicians here to work on politics, to take measures that are systemic in nature. It's not right to call and say you're returning the ball, who gave what they gave to help the socially disadvantaged. I believe we've all contributed, everyone sitting in here. But that's not a systemic solution. Do you understand, colleague? The 2013 budget is a system budget, provides a solution and offers the political direction of the Slovenian government, Slovenian policy. That's what I'm trying to tell you. I don't know how much you know legislation in this area. Humanitarian assistance – to see how bad Slovenian legislation is and to correct it – is included in the common family budget. Because of 100 euros, I am now speaking hypothetically, plastically, because of the 100 euros in humanitarian aid that the family receives to deal with severe social hardships, on the other hand, they may lose the right to financial social assistance or a child allowance. I hope that when we consider this law – we have prepared it and put it into the parliamentary procedure because we want to eliminate this anomaly and not because of populism. I'm personally deeply hurt when I listen to stories like this. There aren't many, there are many, and I want to help. I believe that that's why I've been called, not to give someone ten euros, a hundred euros in monetary humanitarian aid. As a politician, I have been called upon to fight and try in law to eliminate bad solutions, anomalies. Once again, I urge you to make a concrete proposal, from which account we should use the financial resources to solve this problem. We'll be happy to listen to you! By the way, the amendment is filed correctly. If the amendment had not been properly tabled, we would not be able to discuss it today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u177	Mrs. Masha Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u178	I will be brief because the point has already been said by colleague Žgajner Tavš, but I am also shocked by the implementation of Mrs Šulin. The large number of women elected to Parliament in this mandate indicated another quality of decision also in the sense that women have more empathy for social problems. When one of the members of the National Assembly starts dealing with such matters as diet of hungry children, manipulating the correctness of the accounts and sub-contracts and then stopping the colleagues who are fighting to systematically resolve this issue in order to give something out of their pocket. Clearly, we do not understand what the work of Members is — without spending our wages and sharing them, because we can feed only so much and so much, but by our power, knowledge, and involvement in political developments, we accept solutions that are good for all. If this country is unable to provide every child with one hot meal a day, then we are not worth being a country.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u179	Minister Turk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u180	I'd still like to replicate very briefly. It is very difficult to replicate or argue with statistics on some shocking personal story that Mrs Žgajner Tavš spoke about. Statistics say that during this school year, about the same number of primary school students as the lunch at school last year, that lunch at the number of about 80 000, plus a minus 100 children, the number of children, ate lunch at the primary school last year and that among high school students, the proportion of pupils who have more school meals this year than in the school year 2007/2008. I only replicate the part that you say is not systemically regulated. The state must have a system to halve the social problems or the socially disadvantaged family and an exception can occur in this system, a problem of poverty that you are talking about, which the system has not covered, which has fallen out of this area through legislation. For this system there is a guardian, a social worker at school can take care of it without the parents taking care of it, report the case and the child gets all the meals in school for free. This option exists, but it does have a security system. That's all we're talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u181	Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u182	Minister, I know that you know that statistics are a very harsh thing and that sometimes they distort the real picture. In one of Slovenia's primary schools, concrete data from September of this year, food is paid in 58%, October only in 38%. The problem is that the change in legislation did not remove the right to school nutrition, but it reduced and even abolished subsidies. This is a problem because parents cannot pay their bills, because not all municipalities participate in sufficient numbers, because the municipalities, as you know, are limited and even less money is spent on them in the coming year, including in the social field. Another reality remains that children are denied warm meals in schools and that some do not even hope to have lunch anymore. I'll give you specifics, specific cases that come from primary schools. All of them work together – teachers in schools, principals, local communities – to alleviate this problem, but the problem has arisen at a systemic level, when the ZUJF, which has all tied together to censorship – also social protection legislation, absolutely, I agree. I still say that the consequences of the social protection legislation that came into force on 1 January 2012 and the consequences of the ZUJF are catastrophic for a number of households. Today, we still have no real picture of what these two marriages meant or meant for people’s lives. And if we got a very clear signal from schools, from NGOs, I told you myself one of the stories that I heard and was publicly exposed to, it is, I think, a clear enough signal that politics reacts – it reacts with changes at the system level. Minister, I have read that you are preparing a proposal to amend this law to increase the number of beneficiaries of subsidised school diet and that at the same time you do not yet have definitive data on the number of decisions issued on this basis, a financial impact analysis is not yet ready. Today we have an opportunity because we have an open budget document for next year. There will probably be a budget rebalancing, and if we see that money remains on this assumption, I will place it somewhere else, but not at the start, to deny the possibility of us settling this matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u183	We have concluded the debate on this amendment. Otherwise, we have exhausted all the amendments, so I am closing the debate. The vote on the amendments and on the specific part of the supplementary budget will be held tomorrow in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the consideration of the development programme plan. Anybody want to talk? If not, I'll close the debate. We will also do this vote tomorrow. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the 2014 supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The introductory explanations have already been given so that we are moving on to a debate on the supplementary draft budget. We will discuss individual parts of the supplementary draft budget and the amendments tabled. As an individual part, it shall be considered: first, general part; second, special part; third, development programme plan. We are moving on to the general part of the supplementary budget. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. The vote on the general part of the supplementary draft budget will be held tomorrow in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the specific part of the 2014 supplementary draft budget. There's no desire to discuss it. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of 3 December 2012. First, I would like to ask in general whether there is a desire to discuss any amendment. Bo. All right, let's do it in a row. Budget user 2130, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors to the Mines sub-programme and the rehabilitation of mining damage. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u184	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! As for 2013, the Social Democrats Group has also tabled an amendment to the State Budget proposal for 2014 to increase the sub-programme of Mines and the recovery of mining damage by EUR 500 000. The funds under the 2013-2017 programme are significantly reduced by these two budgets and, if we want to meet all the legal standards under the Mining Act and the Mining Prevention Act in the Idri mine, then the funds for maintenance, monitoring and mining damage must be increased. Since I have spoken several times about these things today, but I have not said exactly what kind of work it is to say that there will be a constant need to maintain all the roads to the underground water resources in the mine, to take care of the right routes, to air, to take walks, and to cave facilities and facilities necessary for the maintenance and ventilation of the mine. It is also necessary to continuously maintain hiking routes to all seventeen geological profiles, which are identified as the most important parts of the natural values of national importance, to take care of Antoni's trench as a cultural monument or mine open to the public. In short, on the basis of the knowledge of the mine cave of mercury and geological or geomechanical conditions on individual sections of the route, which must also be planned in future maintenance work in individual fields, as the mine is flooded only to the fourth horizon and is still open from the fourth horizon to the surface, water must still be pumped and so on. Maintenance works are also planned on a number of surface facilities, which also remain in future, maintenance of electrical installations and installations, as well as parts of the mine, which are protected as a natural value of national importance. There is a need to keep monitoring and monitoring of completed closures, but here we are thinking of visual monitoring, geodetical monitoring, geomechanical monitoring, groundwater monitoring, environmental monitoring and so on, because this programme of maintenance of the indemnified part of the mine and all the things involved is very long, including mining damage, which is also a legal category. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u185	Same amendment, Mr. Janko Weber? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u186	Thank you. I will also support this amendment myself, because it must be stressed that even when we stop mining, there is still a need to take care of this facility, because the consequences of mining are permanent and if it fails, accidents can occur, and it can cause even more damage and even more costs if we want to remedy these consequences. Comrade Bevk has also said that these mine pits are only partially watered and then you cannot access them, and some of them need to be cared for. Especially since this mine is open to the public in this part, it is so important that we are aware of this and prevent any accidents. Let me say that in the case of the nomad mine which is completely flooded, as it was closed to the extent necessary, this maintenance is not necessary. While there are quite a few consequences still in the area, in this case, when we meet with the use and accessibility of the public, this facility needs to be maintained and these funds are urgently needed, so I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u187	Mr. Lucky Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u188	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! When we are talking about such a case as the case of the Idri mine, at least two elements should be looked at. The first is that we have once adopted a legal basis, that is, a state, and this needs to be fulfilled, this needs to be fulfilled. Therefore, decisions and decisions need to be handled very carefully when we adopt laws, but we are talking about going years into the future. This happened at the close of the Idri mine, and this could happen in another mining place. When we talked about the guarantee for block 6 of the Šostjanj Thermoelectric Power Plant, we also talked about the rehabilitation of Velenje Coal Mine and the rehabilitation of everything that is going on around the coal mine, and thank you for your support. At that time, we said that block 6 also provided for the rehabilitation of almost all or all of those final works after the closure or after the end of the excavation, even after 2050. That is why it is so important that we understand the individual needs, since if this guarantee were not available, then in the National Assembly this year or at the beginning of next year we should talk about the law or adopt the law on the closure of Velenje Coal because what the coal miner did to the surrounding area needs to be settled. Residents and residents should be settled to such an extent that these consequences will not be felt in the field of life and work in a valley which, due to the mining of coal and the production of electricity, is handicapped and which thinks that by continuing production itself can solve the problem. Therefore, support for this amendment, support for the country's long-term intention to regulate financially what we have already adopted in the past, and I will, of course, support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u189	We are moving to budget user 2431, Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. I am putting forward four amendments to the Social Democrats' Group's sub-programme on Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u190	Thank you. As early as 2013, I tried to explain what development programme was involved in this case. This third A development axis towards Kočevja is within the Pokolpja programme and we are trying to understand that the commitments made must be respected, that the commitments to the loans hired must be settled, because this is an obligation, and that, last but not least, the obligations to the European budget must be settled. I would like to remind you that there is a commitment and a commitment on the part of the Government to respect the conclusion that it allows such areas to develop through the construction of infrastructure, with incentives for the development of the economy. In this case, it is an modernisation of the road, i.e. very small investments, but extremely important. I hope that, for these reasons, when I try to inform you that there is a decision by the Government that there is a legal basis in the Law on the Promotion of coherent regional development, this programme will be implemented because it is an area with the greatest unemployment. One of the government's priorities is to help bridge development differences through infrastructure. So it's not about proposing these amendments just because the road needs to be updated. This is a commitment that has been made, and I hope that you will respect this obligation. The funds are redistributed within the area of transport, so that we do not interfere with the obstacles that would be problematic. However, I would like to remind you that the previous government has not stopped any transport project that has been in preparation and in implementation since the previous government. I hope that you too will act properly and respect the commitments you have made since the previous government and continue this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u191	Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u192	Just for a little while, Mr. President. Thank you for your word. A respected choir! If we support this amendment, we follow the document adopted by the first Janšev government in 2006, in a resolution on the most important national projects until the 2023 period in the field of transport infrastructure, where the projects are within the framework of the 3, 3A and 4 development axes. If we provide additional resources, these programmes will also be more successful, so I will support these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u193	We are moving on to the debate on the next amendment, budget user 2611, Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, amendment of the Social Democrats Group to the Sub-programme Creation of Jobs. Since no one wants to discuss it, we're going to the next amendment. Budget user 3330, Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia to the sub-programme Research programmes and projects. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, Mr. President! You said it was a subroutine of research programs and projects. Although this amendment has not been tabled by the Group of Social Democrats, as we have explained in the 2013 budget, we support its content because we believe that the future is in research and development and that it is impossible to imagine a future without investment in human resources, as it is said. But if we look at how young educated people are involved in the life of this world, I have to say that on individual occasions, when I can listen to them, I am directly fascinated, how much they appreciate the knowledge they have acquired in our higher education system and how they know what they have received here, combine with the experiences and opportunities of the great world, as they say. When we talk about the knowledge society, about innovation, and about everything that should make life easier and richer for us, we are betting on them, because if we don't create a friendly environment for young researchers, they will escape us. I would only tell you with the case of a researcher in Maribor. Maribor is in such a place that a lot of the white world is quickly tempted to leave, but one of the most noticeable 18-year-olds – remember him when he proposed a change to the Constitution – kept Maribor. He joined research projects in college, but if we work so that these research projects "out of box" can't work, then we'll lose them. If we do not create the conditions for the research activity to continue, it will be difficult to convince them to return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u195	Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, let me first thank you from the bottom of my heart for helping those who have suffered a great deal of damage in the recent floods today. Thank the President and the professional services for making this happen! With a similar amendment for 2013, I wanted to make a call, but I decided I would now. I apologize for the fact that my debate may be a little longer. The first conclusion is that I am extremely pleased. I will provide you with data for 2008 when Nova Slovenije was in the government, but fine. At that time, if we looked at young people between 15 and 24 years of age, statistics show that as many as 71% of young people were included in one of the schools at this age interval. We were then European recorders in this area after the participation of young people in this age group and after entering a school programme. Where are we today? I have to say, I don't know, I would be happy if we kept this European record. It is in this respect that I believe that we are truly united here, that we all want to provide the best funding for the education of our young people, especially when it comes to research programmes and projects. At this point, I would like to point out and appeal to the government – I am pleased that Minister Janez Šušteršič has joined us – because the government has a lot of powers within the Budget Implementation Act so that the funds can be redistributed, unless there are some new accounts, but there is no need, the accounts are open and I believe that the Government will agree and make this transaction, not least of all we have discussed this issue in coalition coordination. More specifically, I would like to stress and commend the efforts of those universities or, more precisely, colleges that receive a lot of money on the market. Inside the University of Ljubljana is a university which, as its representatives, receives about 55% of all funds on the market, it is also a university that has the most scientific publications within the University of Ljubljana. Of course, they are not all and cannot be so successful, but those who are somehow more connected, at least this is my explanation, with the economy, probably have more opportunities, and I think that the leadership of such colleges should be particularly commended here with names and surnames. Look, these days when we read and hear about bad will at academics and universities, we get Members -- certainly you too, not just me -- different letters, I'd say "for et contra". I never really knew exactly what the autonomy of the university meant. In a financial sense, this autonomy certainly works by simply taking the money out of the budget and giving it to the university, and then the university distributes it. We, Parliament, have absolutely no influence on the allocation of funds. It's very important who, as a dean, sits on the board of directors of this university. The one with a slightly more resounding name, which is louder, which is a better rhetoricalist, normally gets more money. If that is right or wrong, it is a question of a debate that would probably deserve a meeting of the National Assembly. Since I've received quite a few letters, allow me to read a few fragments of these letters so that we may understand better how universities work. In 2002, the law on the financing of higher education institutions also entered into force on the basis of the number of students enrolled and diplomas awarded. I did my best to tell you in the first place that I deleted the names and titles of the university because I don't want to betray anyone because it's not pleasant. I don't think I'm gonna win this show, get some sympathy in university circles. At the time of the adoption of the law, it was said that after two years an analysis of the operation and consequences of this law would be carried out, which was not the case. Although the distribution of funds was only applicable to the level of higher education institutions, universities have also applied the principles of this law to members, this is to colleges and unfortunately continue to departments; this is true for the University of Ljubljana, the University of Maribor and so on. In doing so, some of the ways of technology and science have been most affected, which is particularly painful for me, and therefore I am extremely critical of the distribution of money. Thus, some departments, which are important for the development of the Slovenian production economy, had fewer resources per year. The example, if you had 10% less students in the first year – unfortunately, the interest among young people in these areas is still growing – is that of technology and science – and you remained at the same percentage of mania even in the following years, these funds were reduced by the same percentage each year, since the starting point was always less than the previous year and not the year 2002. So in five years, arithmetic is like this: 0.9 times 0.9 times 0.9 times 0.9 times 0.9, and 0.9 to the fifth is 0.59%. This situation was then covered by the entry of a deficit study course. Despite the warnings and the state of emergency, today the most prominent members of the universities and their representatives, who have benefited most from this opposition to the government, are today. And that's a problem that needs to be dealt with and solved. They intervened in the affairs of the faculty to this extent to prevent the distribution of faculty funds by department to ensure the quality implementation of all teaching programmes, and forcefully transferred this system to departments, which was contrary to the law in force at that time. The short-sightedness of university leadership went so far that the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, led by Dr. Jure Zupan at the time, sent a proposal to approve an invitation to a new study year, which would not call for two programmes, which I will not appoint, but vital programmes, for one year. This would mean that, according to this logic, next year the department would have run out of funds and a year later would have come from zero and would have been the product of zero with such a successful entry and completed diplomas equal to nothing. In this way, the study direction, which was also wanted, would be abolished, very important for the industry and research sectors in Slovenia. Fortunately, then, the minister of the Janševa government, Dr. Jure Zupan, did not allow this and, nevertheless, invited these study programmes. This gentleman has repeatedly warned the head of the university and, in particular, Mrs rector that it is necessary to support entry in the direction of the deficit professions, the answer was very short. I quote Mrs. Rector: "Let the young people study at least once what they want." End of quote. "I have written all this in more detail for this reason," that is, this gentleman from the university, "to make it clear how the university imagines autonomy. There is certainly no university within it and it does not deserve it in its current egotistic structure. I believe," is not a Slovenian word, but the gentleman thus wrote, "I believe that the government must also give instructions in addition to the reduction of funds, on which study directions the entry should be reduced and where it should be increased. As the generation is smaller each year, the spread to the detriment of the programmes that educate productive professions is increasing. Public officials at the university are unable to regulate this process. This has been particularly true in over-reaching social studies with new Bologna programmes. In Germany, at the time of the decline in funds in the 1990s, they made an incision by waiting for one or two years to be re-occupied for positions of assistants normally limited to five years. In this way, the professor must prove that he is capable of implementing the programme with the assistance of doctoral students paid from other sources. This reduces the mass of resources for teaching workers and does not stop jobs. Let me also point out that the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany has prepared measures to increase entry into technology and science, from 25 % to 33 %, and, surprisingly, it is succeeding. I think there are reserves at the university and that it will be necessary to cut into the very habilitation conditions, which are by no means in honor of the university, at least as far as professors are concerned, who would have international experience at the best universities and institutes in the world. There are many manipulations and deceptions, including false certificates obtained through friends abroad. The university must look at itself and rigorously respect international calls when looking for professors for new or vacant cities." And I conclude with the last paragraph: "In the case that I have cited," so this gentleman, "I firmly believe that it is possible to reduce funds to those colleges which in recent years have unjustifiably obtained large funds at the expense of a large subscription, which, as we know, did not result in a continuous study until a successful diploma. Because we all know we have a big rash to deal with. I know for a fact that some colleges were left with money at the end of the year, while others were mutilating the educational process from the science and research projects they had obtained at home and abroad. Not everything is as great as the boasting that the University of Ljubljana is spreading through the media. In particular, there are too many scavengers who don't belong to the university and we call them academic pickpockets. Therefore, a careful analysis of the situation is needed. Whether the university is capable of solving this on its own with its understanding of autonomy is a question. I doubt it." That's what this gentleman says. I certainly support the determination of the current Minister, Dr. Giga Turk, and unfortunately I do not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk and Mag spoke. Spending. I'm opening a debate if there's more than one debate. No one else. Anybody else want some? I'll just open the debate. I open my application for discussion, sub-programme Research programmes and projects, amendment of Positive Slovenia. Two discussers. Mag. Majda Potrat, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u198	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'll be very short. What we heard was the opinion of one individual and I will treat it that way. I believe the indicators according to which the University of Ljubljana and the other two universities are classified on different international quality scales. And that's not bragging, that's indicator rating. But I believe that if someone is operating on old ways of funding higher education, they're a little different now, then there's a lot of chance that he's not satisfied. If we look – I'm sorry that I can't see, I quoted the data earlier – experience is the same everywhere in the European Union; twice the enrollment in sociology, law and management and then at the bottom are the entries that belong to technology and science. We are nothing special and thank those who support a stand-alone decision to choose a study, because then the success is also greater. Otherwise, you need to read new data and see how the entry moves. Some of the things that have been discussed in this letter have changed long ago, and young people are a skill in career planning, they can make mature decisions, and they can relate their desires to the future profession. As a society, I think we should support freedom of choice. I'm on my own for freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u200	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! I will support the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, which, with the user, the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport increases funds for research programmes and projects by €16 million. By adopting this amendment, this government would join the previous one, which has invested very much in development and research. As stated by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, our national economy invested €894 million or 2.47% of gross social product in research and development in 2011, which immediately ranks us as the most developing intensive countries in the European Union. As one of the articles by a former finance minister, Dr. Franc Križanič, the increased development intensity in Slovenia did not take place on its own, allowed and encouraged a number of economic policy measures, from tax incentives for investment in development and research activities, the development credits of the Slovenian export and development companies and the European Investment Bank to state grants, mainly linked to drawing from various European Union funds. In this article, Dr Križanič also reported that investments in research and development increased by €277 million or 45% between 2008 and 2011. In this regard, 37% of the investment in the business sector in 2011 and 108% more than in 2008. In addition, the previous government has also invested substantial additional funding for tertiary education, as funds increased by 22 % in the previous mandate for this area. With the support of the amendment of Positive Slovenia, in this area, in the field of research and development, we would follow the direction of the former government, which has been above average in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who might want to discuss it? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We continue the discussion with the budgetary user 3330, Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors to the Sub-programme of Cultural Support Activities. I'm asking you to sign up. For now, it's just magic. Majda Potter. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u202	Thank you. My colleague, Matev Franzež, and I told the 2013 budget about the purpose of this amendment and the Group of Social Democrats fully supports us. It is, however, to ensure that the work of Maribor 2012 in the framework of the European Capital of Culture continues with 500 000 euros. But since there was earlier talk about the market of Leon Štuklj, I would say only that we Mariborians and Mariborians on Leon Štuklj are very proud. We are a little less satisfied with what was wrong with the regulation of the market Leon Stuklja. I will not dispute whether the appearance of this market is now such that everyone is satisfied with it, but it is one of those investments where something has also happened that has aroused the dissatisfaction of citizens and citizens. However, it has nothing in common with the European Capital of Culture but that the opening part of the European Capital of Culture has taken place in this work. This is an investment prepared from other funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We continue the discussion with the budgetary user 3330, Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia and the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats to the Sub-programme Food of Students, Students and Students. I'm asking you to sign up for someone who'd like to discuss it. The application shall be made. Dr. Andrej Black Nebula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'll continue where I ended up. The fact is that we have made radical cuts in the field of school nutrition, and the data referred to above are mainly mentioned in relation to those school food subsidies which have been fully implemented, this is said in connection with those users who are socially at risk. By the way, this means that their income per family member must not exceed 42 % of the average wage, which means that only those whose income in a four-member family means that parents earn less than 80% of the average wage. So much so that we have a sense of what we're talking about. The other thing is that you say that social workers have not done well and should react. You know, poverty is hiding in the middle layer today, because it's stigmatization, so kids get the excuse that they're not hungry to look at the line and so on. Therefore, I really think that we should find systemic solutions in the direction of what I said to solve what research has shown in a slightly better time – that we have a serious problem with a lower middle layer that falls out of all forms of subsidy. It's a charity social state. I think that in our country, we are not at this stage and the denials of what we have heard before are precisely the calls of civil society, self-initiative actions and so on, that funds are collected so that children are not hungry. I think it is a shame for us here, for Members and Members, to bear this. Once again, the Ministry of Education, which is responsible for the programme, will not be able to solve this problem if it does not get more money, because small is only as big as it is. We therefore agree on this and hope that, in accordance with what you think and what your system of values is, we support the transfer of funds and allow them to adjust the current system properly with us. I don't think we can go on like this. I know everything that comes from the opposition is not good. Look, yesterday we showed you how to work, how we can work with a hand in hand if we recognize common goals. If children aren't our common goals, then I really don't know what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u206	In fact, I would say: I have listened to various appeals today — let us show that we are united, positional, and opposition! Show your position, discuss, give your word to help your children, do it! If we accepted a pension yesterday, Andrea Meglič said so, why can't we make a budget? Because we don't talk. As soon as we say something, we're against development, and if we make any suggestions, it's a blockade. Yeah, how is that a block if we suggest that the kids aren't hungry? Is this a roadblock? Is that what you call a blockade? It's December, and you said the Personal Assistance Act will be in the National Assembly in December, but it's not. He's not here! At that time, you looked into my eyes and all those who needed it. Let me say one more thing. I believe that we all know together what the situation is today in Slovenia can also be in the world. What do peaceful protestors do, what do they want? Legal country, they want to live decent lives. And today we propose that we give them one meal of food and we don't give it to them. You were saying that someone wants a more legal state or a less legal state, yes, but who doesn't want a legal country that won't be hungry? [[...]] Who doesn't want this more than those who are hungry? We were talking about civil servants. It's all public servants' fault. Savings, we're gonna hold everybody's belt together, and we're gonna hold them to the spot. We talked about education, we talked about development, we talked about colleges, we didn't need them, if I can make it very simple that some colleges have a lot of money, others don't. With this we mixed up those programs, the arts and all the others that we have to have because we're a country. Today we also talked about giving 500 000 euros for the EPK, if I understand correctly, 2013. Maybe we won't have to. Maybe the EPK will be what's going on in the protests if we don't do something. You said, ladies and gentlemen, that the amendments have a bad quality, not to tell you where to take them. It would be good to agree on what we will do and how much we will take away from people so that they can live. That would be a good idea to make a deal. If we don't have a place to take it, why don't we suggest, say, a church tax, a tax on church property, some area where they work with money without any control, like not saying anything! Why don't we do it? With a bad bank, we will give the Church of Slovenia, the Bishop of Maribor, a billion euros. Please, we are talking about an amendment that can mean a lot, especially that we feel and know what happens to people, and that we want to help systematically, so I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u207	Mag. Dean Jedhan would like to discuss it. Anyone else? I'd just like to open the application. I see there's still interest in the debate. Mag. Dean Jedhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u208	Madam President. Dear Members and Members, Representative of the Government. Good-bye! I will vote in favour of an amendment that will allow whether children are in primary schools or hungry, depending on charity actions, bottlings and similar inventions, as this area must actually be covered by the social state. I would also like to warn you here, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Children in primary schools, unfortunately, do not have a child's client in the Slovenian government. The pensioners have it, that's right, and that's why they've managed to find an additional 50 million, which I agree, for the pensioners. Because in the Slovenian coalition, ruling the coalition, there are no parties to hungry children in primary schools, you must not forget them. You know, this 9 million is from the point of view of the budget and the mistakes you are making in the budget, which are measured in hundreds of millions, irrelevant money from the legal and social state's point of view. Legal because we have a Constitution that speaks of a social state. 9 million is the difference between whether we understand politics morally, or whether we understand politics primarily as a follow-up to the tops of client centres. Not long ago, you were Members of Parliament and Members, because you had instructions from the Central, you voted against the interests of the regions in the health care institutions. There was no argument. I call on you, honourable Members, today at this point, at the point of hungry children, to forget that you have such or different instructions from the Government, but you are acting in accordance with what you have been elected as representatives and representatives of citizens and citizens and also hungry children in primary schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u210	Thank you so much for saying that. I didn't think I'd stop by today, but by knocking on our souls, you're showing us coalition MPs and Members as if we were insensitive to the hunger of our children. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, this is not the case. In the National Assembly, you spread unfortunately demagogies. If anyone in kindergarten, primary school, high school is hungry, the primary responsibility is for him who leads either kindergarten, school or high school. Because according to the system it is, children don't have to be hungry. And also according to the social state, which is still in operation, but you brought this social state and the country in the previous term with a 10 billion debt on the verge of bankruptcy. Today, to say that we don't care about social services is really a big demagogic. I am always at peace in the National Assembly, but now I must say that we are interrupting when you want to show us to the Slovenian public as if we do not respect the social and legal state, even though that is not the case. I believe that at the elections, citizens and citizens will show you who is in favour of such a country. By what we accept today, the 2013 and 2014 budgets show that we respect the rule of law and the social state. What you're doing in the National Assembly is really not worthy, and it's obvious to us, even though you owe this country. If social work centers don't do their job, they might be hungry somewhere. Personally, however, I am interested in how many children and adolescents have you helped — I am many. To make it clear to me in the National Assembly today that I don't have a social sense, but it is a demagogy that I can't listen to anymore! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u211	You've got the replica. Spending. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u212	Thank you for your word. Because you went into a direct attack, it'll be a direct response. You are the last person in this House to read to us the Levites. What you've done more than once as President of the Mandate-Election Commission and anything else I can tell you is a good picture of you, so don't read us levit. But to go to a systematic demolition of the social state, to privatisation and against the interests of the people, it is true.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u213	Mag. You've got a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u214	Your Honor! Unlike your government, we have begun to increase employment again, and in the most difficult circumstances, we have managed to achieve an economic growth of 0.6%, which you have made effective in a few months at -3.3. The only country in the European Union is to blame for this. So please give yourselves a nice, respectable lady and gentlemen, imagine. And as far as the social state is concerned. I encourage you to do what our President of the National Assembly continues to do to us. Use Mondays to hang out with voters and voters, and you'll see where you took them within a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u215	There's no replica to the replica. I am now opening the possibility of applying to the debate on the two amendments. Your Honor, I'm opening the application. The application shall be made. Four panellists have been reported. The first is Mr Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u216	It's sad, but it's real. You were the Minister of Government, who in 2009, 2010 and 2011 produced a minus gross domestic product of 35, 38,6 and 46,9 %, or in billions of 12.5 billion, 13.7 billion and 16 billion 954 million. It was your government that you were sitting in as a minister. It is sad that at this moment you are knocking on our hearts and souls of hungry children. I won't let you do this. You've probably never been hungry in your life, but I was alone. Don't make a fool out of those who are suffering right now. It's not fair what you do. You owe the state, you owe the country 8.7 billion euros in just three years. Where did you get that money? What pockets? Where? To the economy? Where is it? Where are your results? What are you talking about? Three years ago, when you didn't even know what it was like to be a Member, in the National Assembly we adopted budgets that were 200 million euros worth of interest, today there are almost 700 million euros to pay off interest. I mean, I'm really asking you to go down a little bit and say you're a mea maxima culpa - my sins in this are great – that you did it to get the country here. You are talking about growth – on 20 July 2011, when you adopted the last budget and you were sitting in that government, the figures were as follows: the budget deficit will be greater with the balance and where the money will go. Debt repayment will not change, the country will pay EUR 919 million. The more interesting items were: more for salaries in the state administration, because you were employed day after day in the state administration and in this way kept social peace, but this is the end. Even today, 40,000 people could be hired by the government and borrowed money from outside, but that once means you're dead. You'd have brought the state to a dump. You're already on the edge. Secondly, you did not make use of European money for less investment. And thirdly, less for company subsidies and more for the unemployed. That's how you did it. And today you're holding our left! You're wrong, and it's not fair what you're doing. It is not correct and, above all, it is not correct and fair to those 120,000 unemployed – over 60,000 have been sent to employment institutions, over 60,000 have been sent back to other countries of the former Republic of Yugoslavia. And now you're holding our lions on hungry children? It's not fair, it's really not fair, and it's simply not possible to do that.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u217	Here's a replica, mag. He's thirsty. It's 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u218	The honourable Member, because most of the numbers you state are completely wrong, I am prepared to accept hard work. Please bring the paper here, I'll fix it and we'll read it together if you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u220	I'm really upset, disappointed if you want me to. I hoped that we had said enough in the 2013 amendment. I didn't want to politicise, I didn't want to embellish matters with big political words, I didn't want to, Comrade Pukšič, because I believe it's wrong to lock up on the subject of school meals so I won't talk about the hunger of children. Colleague Ramshak, once again, because you obviously don't understand. We've been called on by politicians to take systemic solutions. In the past, two key laws, the Social Protection Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2012, did not hold you responsible, nor did it matter who bears the blame at this time and the Public Finance Balance Act. Because of these two laws, they were — I say! – committed injustices to many families and these injustices also went in the direction of eliminating the general subsidy for the diet of children. Since there is no general subsidy, many are excluded from the entitlement to pay, subsidised, free of charge for children's consumption in school. At the same time, however, it is necessary to look at what these measures have brought into reality – not only the abolition of the general subsidy for school meals, at the same time the salaries of public servants have been reduced, the conditions for obtaining the child supplement have been further tightened, and many have therefore lost the right to a child allowance, not to mention further. All statistical indicators show that these two measures have made the financial, economic and social situation worse in many Slovenian families. And when you justified specifically the ZUJF, you said that this law would not harm the socially weak. This law has affected the lowest middle layer — I say! – and this lowest medium layer has been suppressed below the poverty threshold and has become a socially endangered category today. And these people, the children of these families, of these households, have fallen out because of the low censorship and all the measures I've listed and others that I'm not going to mention have fallen out of school food subsidies. Since these subsidies are not available, parents call, ask, warn them to listen. Children have lost their right to food because their parents can't pay for it. That's the problem. If we want to reintroduce this general subsidy that all children, including those who may exceed the price of 10 cents, will be entitled to food. I think this is the right path, the right systemic solution that we owe it to us to accept. Your colleague earlier – I don't think I have seen you in Parliament, in this Chamber – made this amendment with just another account. I invited her to help us find another account from which we will draw financial resources for school meals. Please, we're giving you a hand. To the Minister who was with us earlier and who is not at this time, I have made it very clear that the Ministry is studying, is preparing some measures to correct the mistakes made in the past, two laws, for one you are responsible for. But it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u221	Excuse me, mag. Squire Tavsh. I ask politely for peace in the hall so that we may hear the debate of the Magi. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let me get on with it. The minister sneered that the Ministry was preparing some solutions. What, we don't know, the ministry doesn't know what solutions will be made in this area at this time. However, if the Ministry is to draw up solutions, the 2013 and 2014 key document should provide an opportunity to finance these solutions. That's what we're talking about today. Not about what the previous government has done, what your government has done so far, not about it. Right now, we're all responsible! I've told two specific stories before, even because I don't want my words to sound too populism or political, I don't want that, but I've been personally shaken by these two stories. So much so that I said I was a politician and it's my duty not to sit there, not to look away, not to excuse myself from the financial crisis. It is not, once again, a financial crisis that would allow us to talk in a modern social state about the hunger of children in primary schools, or to allow that someone may not have, due to a systemic error, a school diet. And that's what we're talking about. Here, at this point, please, really please, it doesn't matter, you can sign under this amendment, just turn on the green light for the system solutions prepared by the Ministry. But so far there is no financial basis in key documents for any improvement under the legislation. We offer this to you and again please help us, if you do not agree with the account, find a more appropriate source from which I will redistribute the financial resources for the diet of children.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u224	Thank you for your word. Mrs Tavš, today I listened very carefully to you in the National Assembly because I was, unlike anyone else, in this Chamber all day. If one child is hungry in a school or kindergarten, it is too much, if there are more of these cases, it is too much, and it is necessary to do everything possible not to. In my debate, I said that the current system is directed so that no one in Slovenia should be hungry if it is [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mrs Tavševa, my word – I did not jump into your word and I ask you to let me finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u225	Mrs Ramšak, I agree with you and ask for order in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u226	If anyone in school or kindergarten is hungry today, it means that work at school or kindergarten does not do what they should. You can wave, I'm not talking about the fact that there's not enough money for school meals, but I'm talking about every kindergarten or every social worker institution, and I don't know what this social worker is doing, or whether you can deny it or not. Also to those who say that the work of Members and Members of Parliament is on the ground – yes, Mr Židan, I have four offices of Members, perhaps I am one of those Members who are most present on the ground. I know people's hardships very well, because that's exactly the kind of case that comes to me, but I wasn't running demagogies on this account, and I was pummeling the parliamentary points, no. Looking back on 2002 and 2013, we are spending 70% more money on social security than we did in 2002. This amounts to EUR 296 million in the national budget only for 2013 and the same for 2014. Speaking of not being aware of what it means if someone has no bread, no food, no job — where were you one, two years ago when they laid off workers in the economy for a great deal? These workers were in such distress that they were unspeakable. Did the previous government help them? They are not, but she has given us an additional two billion euros. Today you want us in the budget to cover all the needs that are in the country. I believe it's necessary to take care of social welfare first, but there's no place to take it from, because we owe ourselves so much that it's terrible. You can talk and wave, but unfortunately the facts are like that. It is right to tell the truth in this country once, not to throw sand in our eyes. You can embarrass me and what you say I do on the Mandate-Election Commission – yes, I am principled because I work in accordance with the law and because I respect what the legality and constitutionalities still decide with us, and not you, Mrs Potrata. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u227	Procedurally, here's the mag. Dejan jedan and mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u228	Dear Chairman! I agree to open the debate on which the government has more indebted the country has grossly indebted. I also agree on the debate under which Slovenia has become a financial slave, but, respectfully, allow us to hold this debate within the National Assembly meeting, because we will be able to make unjustifiable accusations and to know the facts of what happened between 2004 and 2008, what happened later and what is happening now that the ruling coalition without the need to harass citizens and citizens is having a high-quality debate. I believe we will get all the votes in the National Assembly to hold a debate on this. The way to accuse the Social Democrats when you know we have no more minutes to answer is wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Replica, mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u230	Colleague Ramshak, once again, because I really want you to try to understand, even if you don't and you won't understand, just try to understand the other side of the story. The system in our country today allows all children not to have subsidised diets because parents cannot pay school meals because of the situation in which families have been found, even because of past poor marriages. I told you before, one case, one of your moms. Allow me to repeat just one sentence of hers, which echoed in my ears. She's got four young children. One of her greatest wishes is that her children should have at least one healthy meal of food at school. They don't have it because it's a bad system. Also, Minister, Minister of your Government, Mr. Turk, has found faults in the laws. These mistakes are being attempted by the Ministry, and it will be because it's committed itself. Today, we are just laying the groundwork for changes to take place at systemic level. You know, change takes a source of funding. And today we are opening up the possibility of providing financial resources. The abolition of the general food subsidy resulted in the fact that all children today do not have a diet in schools. This was a policy error that ended because of the quasi-saving measures. I have allowed myself to say quasi-saving measures because I am behind this and I really believe that there is no crisis that should save children's diet. Children are our greatest wealth, we hear it several times, and we like to say it ourselves — let us also show it at the legislative level where we have the power to stand behind these words. Just one more data from one of Slovenia's primary schools: 58% of these food rations were unpaid in September and only 38 were paid in October. These are, I believe, very eloquent numbers that outline the situation on the ground. I believe that you, too, face such cases every day, problems. I'm coming from a place that's economic, and I'm going to say an extremely bad place. As a result, the social pressures of people are so much greater. Believe me, when I go in front of people when I see their faces and requests, it really makes me feel bad, and I can't say that it's right to save money on such matters. It's not right. That's why I'm so much more disappointed today because we're at the children's school feeding point. I'm really disappointed.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u232	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that this debate on the amendments is going in a direction that is not an honor to those who are so tearfully defending it. We or you, Members of the SD and some from Positive Slovenia, have adopted the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds in the previous term. At that time, Mrs Majda Potrata, Andreja Črnak Meglič and also Mr Frangež, who has many instructive issues, said that this is a law that brings greater justice to the distribution of social benefits and which is more favourable to assistance and effective access to social assistance. By means of this law, you have cut off part of those who are entitled to receive social assistance, including food, scholarships, child allowances, and many other rights from public funds. At that time, you all were so vehemently defending why this law proposed by Mr Svetlik and the Pahor government was so good. And the consequences of this marriage are the ones you're talking about now. In some Members, there has been a terrible transformation in the same matter, with the same content. It's a terrible transformation! That someone who boasted of his whole life dealing with social problems, social problems, poverty, could make such a catastrophic mistake, I doubt that we could give him a word called an expert. It's hard, it's hard. I remember the case when I proposed the law on diocese diet – I was a bill-maker, I wrote it, I got my signatures. Many of those on the other side said it was a candy bar, but this was the first time a warm meal had been introduced in secondary schools, for the first time in the history of Slovenia! That was a candy bar. Gentlemen, that was a candy bar, and that was when the country was still in excellent shape. That was a candy bar. Now that you've brought about the social state project, we're listening to some very different stories. A few other colleagues – all those who obviously do not know the logic of the budget and the acts that we are adopting in the budget – are sufficient to implement this item this moment, even for a year, but, Mr Minister, former Minister and someone else, the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, which we will adopt, six articles of the ZIPRO, allowing the government, the minister, to redistribute funds and this in entrenched numbers. You had this opportunity, too, when you were a minister. So all these discussions about how no one will or will not be able to win are not true. The government can redistribute, if you look at Article 21, extremely large amounts even between policies, among the main programmes of individual or different candidates, at 20% of the item. And there will be nothing left here, ma'am or colleagues on the other side of the SD, which will not be settled. Nothing. Nothing at all. If anyone has proved to be social in the last few years, we have been Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party on this side, which we have proposed social laws, the Law on the Subsidisation of the Transport of Educators, Students and Students - I myself have also proposed, I have been first signed - the Law on the Introduction of Student Food and Other. We also introduced a free nursery for another child, within the mandate of that government. All of this you have managed to destroy in the time of the Pahor government, and you have and have presented yourself as the most social also in the debates in the laws when you directly took people. This, however, is an excellent exercise that I would not expect from a serious political party in this National Assembly. Not from serious Members, either. If not, you could at least check what you said when you adopted the Public Finance Balance Act and when we passed the Warm Meal for Students Act and introduced free kindergarten for another child and so on. At least look at this and write down the debates in this direction. But obviously there are other interests, populism is a very cheap thing, and everything is subordinated to it. If you don't know how the budget works — those who haven't been mayors and haven't been ministers — then you probably don't know much. The government has powers under this law, and the former has powers. At the time of implementation of the budget, the former also carried out ongoing redeployments between items, as certain conflicts emerged at the time of implementation of the budget, where more was needed, and elsewhere there was a shortage. That's what's gonna happen in this term, too. There's no specialty. If the need is greater, we will prepare, as it has already been prepared this year, a budget balance. Don't worry about leaving anything crucial behind to consciously ignore anything out of order in this area. So far, we have never, nor will we now, be, contrary to some who have first violated social rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr Janko Weber, Dr Andrei Črnak Meglič, Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u234	Thank you for your word. I propose procedurally, Madam President, that you point out to the speaker that it does not name my colleagues and colleagues by name, on the understanding that we have already spent time in the debate and that none of us can explain the particulars you have mentioned. You have an hour and 40 minutes to discuss, because you haven't discussed the budgets at all. Following a procedural proposal, I suggest you do not wait for the government. The National Assembly may decide to give money for children’s meals. The National Assembly may decide if he will give money for universities. We don't have to make excuses to the government. That's our jurisdiction. Procedurally, my dears, let us decide and show that we are a parliament, not some service to the government, which then does what it does. There will be no balance under the Budget Implementation Act because the Government will have such powers that it will create its own budget 2013 and 2014, which, of course, is wrong. Let the National Assembly decide. The National Assembly is the one accompanied by the public and expects us to be far more responsible than any official in the ministry who will or will not notice that the problems in providing child nutrition are. There was talk of a warm meal. Today we are talking about wanting to ensure a minimum meal, this is what we are talking about. I'd like to make a case for you to support these amendments. Don't wait for the government! But I really suggest that you do not take advantage of the fact that we cannot respond to statements that are not correct because we no longer have time. Please, Madam President, point out to the speakers that there are no unnecessary debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u235	Mr. Weber, I accept your procedural proposal. Here you go, Dr. Andrej Crnak Neglich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Tanko, you've misused your debate very badly. In the introductory explanation, I made very clear exactly how the situation in which we are today has come to be. In addition, we do not know exactly what the direct consequences of social legislation are, and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has ordered an evaluation to be carried out. But we do know what the result of the ZUJF and the abolition of the general subsidy on school nutrition is. I made that very clear. And one more thing, Mr. Tanko. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u237	Procedural!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u238	I'm acting like a doctor and some research in this area, so you, who aren't, won't disqualify me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u239	Dr. Black Mglech, so your procedural proposal was not to disqualify you as a doctor of science? Okay. Here you go, Mr. Frangezh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u240	Respected and respected, this situation is no laughing matter. Mr Tanko is a master of his trades and, as usual, he looked at the terminal and found that the Social Democrats no longer have a chance of reacting to its debates. His discussions call for a sharp reaction from the Social Democrats. If I had the option of replicating now, I would tell him how 8 billion euros of public debt was raised in the mandate of the Pahor government. Let's also say that every year there was a billion 200 budget revenue shortfalls or an increase in expenditure at the expense of their legislation, the part of the legislation we are trying now, because it was good for people, to protect the Social Democrats with its amendments. If I had the option of replicating, I would probably also tell him that they have been in the government long enough to come up with a proposal to amend social legislation. Now is not the time to refer to the previous government. We know what the effects are, we didn't know at the time, and that's why we admit our mistake. Now it is your responsibility to come with concrete legal solutions and propose changes to correct past mistakes – this is your responsibility! And, Madam Vice-President, I am moving on to a procedural proposal. I respectfully ask that next time you remind the speaker who so harshly abuses his debate with those who cannot answer him because they are running out of time. That is why we must then resort to such inventions to use the procedural proposal to respond to the shortcomings in the debate. What's more, the untruths, the lies and the disqualifications.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u241	Thank you very much. I'm taking your procedural proposal into account. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u242	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. My procedural proposal is based on what my colleague Frangež said. The erosion of the reputation of the National Assembly is great because of those who do not pay the bills, because of those who copy, because of those who do not have academic titles, and should not have them, and could even list them. Therefore, I do not think that you can wash your bad conscience in the largest group of Members by taking the reputation and disqualifying about the academic title of the one who received his academic address at the appropriate institution in accordance with all the rules. Madam Vice-President, I think there are several cases in the legislative process that try to lower the educational standard, but what the legislative process cannot do is that it cannot take away anyone's diploma, knowledge and honour. You may be ashamed to do this because you are simply proving what has already been said in the debate today and you have warned that only those who have a SDS card may be a diploma at some private university, according to your experts, but not everyone else. We are a very poor example for citizens and citizens, and I think that such personal disqualification should not be the subject of a procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Do you also have a procedural proposal, Mr. Tanko? Mr. Tanko, you'll get your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I propose that we stick to the timetable – Mr Tanko will now make a procedural proposal – and that you apply to those who still have time available, because otherwise we will not be able to drive the matter as it should be. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u244	Thank you so much for saying that. The President-in-Office, none of these proposals has the status of a procedural proposal. That's the conclusion, and we can probably agree here. Members who spoke used and abused a procedural proposal for a hearing with another Member but did not propose anything concrete. I suggest to you, Madam President, that if you proceed with the management of the meeting, you shall guide it in accordance with the rules in force in this house. An MP who doesn't talk about it, you can take the floor and use it. The second problem is that if the Group of Members has misannounced the time for discussion or spent it on some lame debates, this does not mean that no one should look at them or more that no one should name them. Now we have come, ma'am, in that period of darkness and out came the anonymous ones and you have now become one of the anonymous ones that you should never have seen and mentioned in our deliberations. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Weber and the others, if we have time to discuss this, then we can discuss the content on the agenda. Let me use Dr. Svetlik's quote from his discussion, which said that the Law on the Exercise of Rights from Public Funds is seeking or is aimed at creating a more just and longer-term sustainable social state. And then this flossule is repeated by Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič, Matevž Frangež, Mirko Brulc, Renata Brunskole, Majda Potrata – you probably had the matter worked out and pianically studied and now you want to do everything that you screwed up in any way to frame us and declare us as those who have no relation to a more social and more just state. I've listed at least three laws before, and I've proposed them twice, which went the other way than this, and you've destroyed it. I suggest that you endure that hour that we still have available for our debate and follow it as we have always been on our side when we have accidentally run out of time. Above all, I suggest that you take the meeting management more seriously and not in the way that it intersects once on the left, once on the right [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u245	Thank you very much. I'm in charge of the meeting. That I have allowed a procedural proposal, article 77, the last part of paragraph; a reminder may be given to a member or to another participant at the meeting if he speaks, although the chairman has not given him the floor if the speaker is present in the word — or this part — so I have allowed it — if he is referring to a question which is not on the agenda or if he is otherwise in violation of the rules of procedure at the meeting and the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. That is why, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we continue to do so. I'm opening the possibility of applying for a debate. Anybody else want to discuss this? I think so. I'm opening the application. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u246	Good-bye, everybody! No child in Slovenia should be hungry, but today there is a lot of exaggeration, when we all know very well that what is happening has led to the law that came into force on 1 January 2012 – the Law on Public Finance Balance. Your colleagues in Social Democracy were already warned that censorship would be too low, but you didn't want to hear it. Experts have warned you, and so have we. No matter what you say, I can't help but read a few things with magnetograms, because what you're pushing at us, you're going to take on your shoulders first. The fact that Mrs. Potter speaks to someone who washes bad conscience – it will be clear who washes it when you hear this. Mrs Majda Potrata said: "My personal view of this law stems mainly from the stated objective of creating a fairer and longer-term sustainable social state." Mr Mirko Brulc: "That is why I am very pleased to read this material, which speaks of Slovenia continuing to be a social state, at least as much as it is possible in these situations, which is why what Mr Minister has already mentioned at the outset, justice in the sharing of this social assistance, and now I am thinking of all categories, is extremely important." Mrs. Renata Brunskole: "Yes, it is. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u247	Dear Mrs Jeraj, it is no problem that you speak for me, but I suggest that we stick to ourselves, also as President, the procedural proposal of Mr Jank Weber, the leader of the Social Democrats' Group, that we be tolerant of each other in the event that there is no time. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u248	Madam Vice-President, there is no one who is tolerant of us when he offends us, and there is no record in the Rules of Procedure that you should not mention anyone if there is no time. We have time and we can discuss and talk about what we are saying, and we can also quote a magnetogram. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, the relationship's important. Mrs Renata Brunskole said: "It is true that this bill establishes a system of fairness in the distribution of funds." Mr Matevž Frangež: "Today, with the adoption and treatment of the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources, we are significantly defining one of the key pillars of this social state. In an effective manner, in particular by better targeting aid, supported by a single entry point and a single remuneration record received by an individual and by a more transparent system for managing these rights, such opportunities for exploiting the system will be radically hampered without withdrawing aid to those who really need it. In short, I support the law because in it I see the promise to ensure a just society, to provide effective assistance to all those in our community who need it, while also effectively preventing the possible abuses of this system, which, as we say, undermine the solidarity nature of our community. And we need to prevent that in order to preserve the social state." Mrs Andreja Črnak Meglič: "The law – its key objective is to create a more just and longer-term sustainability of the social state. This is the starting point of the law, and this is somehow confirmed by the articles themselves, which are supposed to lead to this. And those who have deepened into this law, we see that this is the case. The data show that those beneficiaries in the worst social situation will receive more from the new system. They'll get more." However, the Minister said what he had already quoted colleague Tanko as saying that this creation of a more just and longer-term sustainable social state is a more transparent and simpler system and so on. Since what happened happened, both ministries, the Ministry of Education, Higher Education, Culture and Sport and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs discussed what we would do to eliminate the bad solutions from your law. Practically the same number of children receive meals as before and fewer children receive a subsidised lunch due to the Law on the Exercise of Rights from Public Resources. Even today, a social worker at school can propose if he thinks that one of the children is above censorship and that he has not received a grant lunch to get it. The Ministry collects data and responses are very modest, very few schools have done so. Either they didn't notice the problem or I don't know what social workers do at school. Some people don't have decisions yet. Is it true why they don't have them? Let me also remind you that the Public Finance Balance Act would have been enforced six months earlier if there were no opposition. We told you that you would not be able to enforce the law before January 1st, and even then we made it very difficult – it was not an information system, a whole bunch of things went wrong. Even though we've spent a lot of money on this, and even though we've been teaching people at the centers, they've totally collapsed because you've built such a good system. For parents who do not pay for lunch or lunch at schools, there are school funds, and there is help for congregations. Ask the congregations how much they spend on social assistance for children. Even for lunch or if someone exceeds censorship, if they turn to it, the municipality may grant such assistance. I've been working in the congregation, and I know this is happening, so you can check it out. Mrs Žgajner and everyone else, on 20 November 2012, you have tabled an amendment to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, and you have tabled an amendment to the Law on Social Security Benefits because of what is happening. 14 days ago you requested an extraordinary meeting on the subject of new social legislation, what is going on, which means that you have very clearly identified the consequences and you know where the problem is, why we came up with this and what happened. I also suggest that you read an article published on the international day of the fight against poverty. Why does blocking reforms increase poverty? From Finance, read it to yourself, and you will have a lot of clarity as to what you may not have been able to do so far. I will not support the amendment, and the solutions are what they are. We will wait for a decision to be made on what does not work to prepare a change of law at the Ministry. Otherwise, the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds will be amended in one way or another as soon as the Social Protection Institute prepares an analysis. By the way, he also advised the ministry at that time when this legislation was being prepared, but let us hope that they will now learn what things they were wrong about and propose corrections.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u249	Mag. Leila Hercegovac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u250	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today we are discussing amendments and the Public Finance Balance Act, the 2013 and 2014 budget, the ZUJF and, in other words, everything more than that. I have to say, I feel like I'm in a courtroom today. I listen to one, the other, or the third party who gives their opinions and expects people watching television to judge what we have said. I really suggest that we stop the television broadcast from the National Assembly, because I think it will be easier for us to talk. We use time for television shows, to accuse one or the other, and that's absurd. So, the budget for 2013 and 2014 is not good. He's not good for education. He's not good for health. Even all of us, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, sitting here, if we continue to do so, will be sick because of stress. I assure you that you will then see how much money is at the primary level of health care and what needs to be fixed and done there. Please kindly – Socrates said that words open the soul – to talk with arguments and respectfully about the 2013 and 2014 budget. I will not support it, because there is very little money in the health department and all that is meant to be invested is not enough for all that health needs in one country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u251	Thank you very much. I see interest in the debate. I'm opening an application for debate. The application shall be made. Mr. Jurša has been reported, mag. Barbara Žginer Tavš wanted to sign up. Then will you do it again? Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u252	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President! At first, I must say that I will not discuss it, but I will ask one question. In view of the fact that there are several teachers, teachers from primary school, former principals, professors and middle school administrators sitting between us, Members and Members, if I have good information, it is possible for me, or even those who have done research, to answer the question raised. I wonder how many children in primary school and from which class does he carry a mobile phone, and how much money does he spend a month on the phone?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u253	Thank you very much. While this is in the context of your debate and I can allow it, then you will be answered outside the hall. Now I'm reopening my application if anyone wants to discuss it or just a mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. Anyone else you want? I can't see. Here you go, mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u254	Thank you very much again, Madam President. Well, what my colleague said before me is really not worth responding to because it's irrelevant. I'm not gonna talk about it. Mr. Tanko. I hope he hears me because he's not in the hall right now. I'd like to believe there's nothing left to change, but I don't believe it. I don't believe it. I made a case earlier. We have listened to excuses that the ZUJF must be taken for austerity measures and that the ZUJF will not harm the socially weak, but that is not the case. If a mistake has been made and I have said myself that it is not important to feel the negative consequences of the social protection legislation adopted by the previous government at this time, it does not matter. The effects of the ZUJF adopted by this government are also felt, but this is not important at this point. We are faced with the negative consequences of poor legislation, of any government. It is our duty, and it is important at this point that we undo these bad consequences. We're offering you an opportunity. My colleague Jeraj said earlier that we had proposed an emergency meeting. Indeed, the convening of the joint emergency meeting of the two working bodies has invited a whole range of experts to give relevant information from the ground, the consequences of social protection legislation, changes to social protection legislation, and the President, who comes from the same party, has gone a little crazy because they have convened a joint meeting separately, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time the same time in two separate locations. This means that it is physically impossible for the applicant to be at the same time at the same time in two different places and that the invited persons cannot be at the same time in two different places. We wanted to get data, real data that is not in the figures today, what are the consequences of changes in social protection legislation, including the ZUJF. Minister Vizjak was unable to respond – at one of the meetings, this meeting did not take place – as analyses are still being prepared. However, we have clear warnings from NGOs, including administrators of Slovenian primary schools, that due to changes in legislation [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u255	Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, please, if you define yourself as much as possible in connection with the debate on the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u256	Absolutely, Madam President, I am coming to a particular point, and I have made the introduction that primary school principals, NGOs, are very clear that due to changes in social protection legislation, I also consider the ZUJF, are facing problems today in the sense that all children do not have school meals. While it is true that in principle parents report their children for meals or order food for their children in school, it is true that they remain unpaid monthly rates. It is also true that the local communities, which in their annual budgets also allocate financial resources to address social pressures, are often welcome here. They're going to schools! I will give you an example, and I have said this before that the budgets for 2013, 2014 for the area of local communities are extremely austerity. The municipalities receive less money and there is greater pressure on local communities from year to year. These needs, which are increasing from year to year, can no longer be addressed by local communities in this way. We have an opportunity, and that is why we are called upon to make systemic decisions. Again, please, you hear me. It's not funny! When Mr Tanko spoke about how the end of their previous term came with positive legislation that gave free food to all children who gave a warm meal to students in secondary schools – those proposals were back then supported by the opposition at the time. Even today, many who were sitting in opposition at the time hope to say out loud that these proposals were positive. It is right that these proposals have taken place, but I do not know why today, when the situation is reversed, when the opposition proposes a positive measure, you challenge or oppose this measure. Mr Tanko said that it is possible to change financial resources within specific areas within the framework of the ZIPro. All right, but why don't we make it very clear that one of the priorities of this government is to provide adequate funding for children's school meals in the 2013 budget. Is it necessary to make an excuse at ZIPRO for the possibility that something will change if it happens? The budget shows government vision, government priorities. I don't know why you're but you're against good suggestions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u258	Thank you so much for saying that again. The chairman of the committee shall decide when he shall convene the meeting. I don't think there's any problem. The members of the Labour Committee are usually other than members of the Committee on Education, Education, Culture and Sport, unless in Positive Slovenia there is only one speaker who can speak on this topic. Then you withdrew your request, not because of my colleague Grims and me, but because some of your Members were in a hurry to vote for the State Council and you were not interested in hungry children at that moment. It is the Committee's decision that as soon as the analysis is done, we meet on this subject and discuss solutions. Both ministries have also informed us that they are already preparing a solution and will present it to our Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u259	Anybody want to discuss it? Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u260	This is the last time I've heard from you today. This is the most arrogant thing I've ever heard. [[...]] Can I explain? The proposer of this meeting was the same and is physically impossible to tear into two parts. The invited persons, the experts were the same and physically impossible to put in two different halls at the same time. Don't fool around. I won't anymore, I really won't, because I can see that the wall would sooner be removed than your hard heart and head, I'm sorry. Now I'm reacting emotionally, and I didn't want to go that far. I wanted without discussion, without controversy, without throwing pollen under my feet, and we basically, I mean, did very well until it started going in a direction that I didn't want to go in. Just to draw attention to one fact, and this fact is that there is a need to correct the mistakes of bad legislation in the social field. If we are warned, once again, by NGOs, that we have something in Slovenia today, which was sometimes not to face hunger in Slovenian schools among primary school students, then I do not know if we are so determined to close our eyes before or if we are called to make a change within the framework of legislation if we can.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u262	I would just like to say that we have also heard about poverty and hunger during the 2004-2008 term, and we have also heard about lunches falling away. Today, everyone in primary and secondary schools insists that snacks no longer throw away, that they are special spots, where they remain, what is left of lunch, and children who are hungry can take it. One more time. You have cancelled or withdrawn the request for an extraordinary meeting, so I believe that your concern is more on paper than it is indeed.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u263	Thank you very much. I see there's no desire to discuss it anymore. Is it a wish? I'm opening an application for debate. Mag. Leila Hercegovac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u264	Once again, I ask that we be respectful when we talk to one another and that we are especially respectful when we talk about children. Dear Members, children begin and end their lives, the country, democracy, culture and everything else. Please, it is right that children have a meal, health insurance, that they have the example of adults and culture, and this begins with us. Please, one respect for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. The vote on the amendments and on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget will be held in the framework of the votes scheduled for Thursday, 6 December 2012, fifteen minutes after the end of the 8th item of the agenda. We are moving on to the consideration of the development programme plan. Does anyone want to discuss this work? Since I do not see a desire for a debate, I conclude the debate. The vote on the Development Programme Plan will take place in the framework of the vote, which is scheduled to take place on Thursday, 6 December 2012, fifteen minutes after the end of the 8th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. On the basis of the information provided by the Commission, the Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, of the European Parliament and of the Council. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the government, Dr. Janez Šuštersič, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u266	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to present briefly the Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014. In addition to those things that are normally regulated by such laws and are necessary for us to be able to implement the budget at all — without such a legal basis, it is impossible to implement the budget, even if a number of parts of the budget were adopted — there are still some important provisions in this law that may not be normal or are not adopted each year, and I would like to draw particular attention to them. First, it is a restriction on the transfer of so-called assigned revenue between years of three twelfths, or then in 2014 of two twelfths of revenue, which run in one year. In doing so, we want to encourage the use of earmarked resources, not to be carried over to the next year, because earmarked funds are specific in the budget, under the Public Finance Act they should be as low as possible due to the principle of an integrated budget and we want them to be used on an ongoing basis for the purposes for which they are intended. The Budget Implementation Act regulates how the objectives of reducing costs, the mass of wage expenditure and other labour costs will be achieved, by authorising ministers and heads of public sector bodies or institutions to implement all necessary to implement their financial plans within the framework of the funds envisaged. In the case of direct budget users or ministries, this means that ministers will have to, and we have already begun, implement appropriate reorganisation measures to ensure that we do not spend more on salaries than is foreseen. In the field of institutions or other public sector where ministers do not have direct control, this means that they will have to provide a starting point for the development of financial plans to ensure that institutions remain within the framework of the resources provided for in the budget for transfers to institutions in specific areas and that such financial plans can be drawn up, they will also have to prepare appropriate adjustment measures in the area of wages or wages. Since the implementation of budgets, particularly in institutions or in the wider public sector, is always difficult to ensure compliance with its guidelines – this is what we have seen this year – let's say in the field of regression in some institutions, in the field of employment where we do not work in the public administration or practically not, while in the wider public sector, despite all budgetary constraints, we have proposed in this law provisions which impose an obligation on the heads of institutions and other similar institutions in the public sector to find that they will not be able to operate within the framework of the funds provided for in the budgets or transfers to institutions and their financial plans, they shall draw up an appropriate recovery plan and submit it within the time limit laid down by law. They are personally responsible for this, both by their position and by the fine provided for in the law. The law also provides that, by the time all these measures are implemented, it is not possible to pay work performance in order to ensure that such savings and incentives are made as soon as possible. The last thing that matters is a provision that allows the government or gives the possibility of transferring additional funds from the capital company to the budget if the contributions and funds provided for in the budget are not able to provide sufficient funds for the payment of pensions. In particular, it is a security measure if, for example, the effects of pension reform were not achieved by those envisaged for the following year. At the same time, it was set out in the Proposal for a Holding Act that 10% of the potential purchases of State property would be transferred to Kad by maintaining the long-term stability of this company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u267	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the member, Mag. Mark Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u268	Madam President, thank you for the floor. At its 39th emergency meeting, on 1 December, the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee considered the draft law on the implementation of the 2013 and 2014 budgets of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee adopted the following additional material: opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, position of the interested group of non-economic activities of the State Council of 9 November. In addition, the Committee received comments or proposals for amendments from various institutions and legal entities concerned. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance as representatives of the proposer, a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, a representative of the Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions and a representative of the Pergam Trade Unions Confederation. In addition, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance said that the explanation of the articles was a law allowing the implementation of budgets for those years. At the same time, he stressed that the savings-oriented text of the law, at the same time as the most urgent measures to increase the revenue of the State budget, namely the need to reduce the expenditure of budgets at all levels, sets out the composition of the specific budget implementation, the extent of the country's debt and guarantee, the amount of the average amount belonging to the municipalities and the way in which the commitments are made. He pointed out that the substantive provisions of the law itself are the costs of the current regime. The bill requires careful monitoring of expenditure from the budget while being monitored. In the debate, the opposition parties presented their views and opinions, expressed their concerns and raised certain issues, as was the case with regard to the financing of discharges, labour costs during the notice period and unemployment benefits during the first three months following the termination of the employment relationship for business reasons, where, in the opinion expressed, sufficient budgetary provision or special budget item should be drawn up. The Committee was also presented with the views and opinions of the representatives of the trade unions present, from which they generally do not want to be amended by technical law and other law. The debate also opened with a series of arrangements where representatives and representatives of the Government provided additional explanations to the Committee. In addition, the representative of the Government explained in a series of answers to questions relating to the relevance of the proposal as a whole, among other things, that the ZUJF regulates, in a particular part, the right to work performance for employees in the public sector by regulating the possibility or restricting the payment of work performance according to the available resources of the individual budgetary user. In the manner described, an arrangement may be likened to an arrangement in respect of jubilee awards carried out on the basis of an agreement with the public sector trade unions, due to the repeated misinterpretation of such a provision of the current ZUJF in practice. A range of viable options were presented for reducing labour costs, from reorganisation of work, more economical overpayments and work performance to retirement, both after an express assessment, the introduction of forgiveness and the only viable options for reducing costs – not in one place. In conclusion, it was stressed that budget preparation is carried out consistently at the inter-ministerial level by discussing where and where funds are needed, where rationalisation is possible or where funds can be reduced. At the hearing, the Committee adopted amendments to coalition parliamentary groups and the Committee did not accept amendments from opposition parliamentary groups. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u269	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group, Mr Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u270	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We citizens have every right to demand that the money we contribute by paying taxes be used conscientiously and carefully. Savings, which means a lot to us in our private life, must also be the starting point for spending money in the public sector. Public debt combines the state's ability to function and places a burden on future generations. The fundamental principle of sustainable budgetary policy must be the cost-effective use of budgetary resources. Instead of looking for new and new tax resources that would further burden poorer segments of the population, we need to work to limit public expenditure at this time. In New Slovenia, we are aware that we cannot spend more than we create, so public finances need to be consolidated by reducing public spending. Under normal economic conditions, all national expenditure to finance public expenditure under ESA 95 may be up to 45 % of gross domestic product. The solution is a basis for a more predictable situation for entrepreneurship and signals to the public sector that it will share in good and bad the fate of the economy. The implementation of this law is an urgent and direct condition for the implementation of the budget and thus for its implementation. The basic objective of the law is to lay the legal basis for solutions that will enable the current and smooth implementation of the adopted budget. The Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia follows to a large extent the principles and solutions that are enshrined in the Public Finance Act, by heavily limiting individual expenditure, by setting out the extent of public sector debt at national level in a given year and by defining permitted guarantees, also defines the additional powers of the Government. Let me just give you a few solutions that the proposal for a law brings. For faster and more efficient use of European funds and the elimination of liquidity problems for operators, the level of prepayments from 20% to 30% is raised. Prepayments are now also allowed for public funds and recipients of private and public law exercising public powers or public service under the law governing social security. This solution seems extremely important to us in New Slovenia. Representatives of direct budgetary users shall be obliged to ensure that labour costs are reduced by not exceeding the total annual level of resources. For 2013 and 2014, public servants and officials shall not be paid part of their salary for performance. The RTV contribution to natural and legal persons shall be reduced. The higher value real estate tax shall be applied for 2013 and 2014 where the property belongs to the same owner and their total value shall be at least EUR 500 000, which shall not apply to commercial and industrial property and property for public use. The proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia also allows the Government to redistribute funds in substantial amounts, so I believe that the Government will find a solution for any reallocation of funds for the user by the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport. The New Slovenia Group supports the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Member of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities, Dr László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u272	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State! The adoption of the law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014 would normally be a routine task. Today the situation is everything before optimal, and this law is also given special attention because its provisions are of paramount importance. In view of the fact that we are in, and above all, the real situation in which we are living, it is understandable that the substantive provisions of the law are a little more stringent than they have been so far. It is also acceptable that the law in question requires very precise monitoring and control of budgetary expenditure from the current form. Most of the other provisions and the principle definitions of the law can also be agreed upon. There are some questions, however, which, in the belief of our Group of Members, are justified or less justified. In the context of our position, I will mention only one issue, namely the issue of the RTV contribution, which is virtually not even a direct budget item. Otherwise, public money or the contribution of taxpayers based on the law is involved, but in today’s climate, changes in this area may not have to be addressed. We therefore believe that the planned reduction of the RTV contribution under the circumstances is not the most appropriate move, although the Government's manoeuvre for such a decision is undoubtedly in the RTV Act. While it is true that every cent today can mean something to the most socially endangered families. There is also likely to be considerable disagreement as to whether the functioning and current organisation of the public service RTV are appropriate and whether any problems justify the proposed reduction of the RTV contribution. It would be difficult to define the general situation in the RTV office. However, as regards the impact of any reduction in the contribution to the operation of national RTV implementing units, I can be certain that there are no reserves in this area. Each contraction means a direct reduction of the programmes. At the same time, it must be honest to say that the Government has fulfilled the budgetary part of the obligation very correctly and fully. The development of RTV programmes by two national communities also differs considerably, which, of course, led to different historical circumstances and political and other decisions in the past. However, the fact that with great effort and constructive cooperation of all competent entities in the Republic of Slovenia has also been made in this area in the last two decades is a great deal. This is how we now have quite appropriate national radio and TV programmes within Hungarian nationalities. As I have already mentioned, the above-mentioned establishment in Lendava and Koper does not tolerate organisational and human rights cuts if we are to maintain programmes at the current level. In recognition of this, due to the undoubtedly high level of vulnerability of the national communities, we have also joined the Government in promoting the preservation of national programmes in all areas, including information. It is clear, however, that this is not only the task of the Government, but also of all the management of the public institution RTV. Let me finish. If the RTV contribution is cut, this could also have consequences for national programmes, despite the fact that the initial reduction proposal on the parent committee was halved to 5%. We cannot agree with this in our parliamentary group, that is to say with the contraction in general, so we will support the amendment that prevents the reduction of the RTV contribution compared to the current situation. In the event that the amendment is not adopted, unfortunately, we cannot or will not support the Law on the implementation of the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u274	The law on the implementation of the budget should be a technical law enabling the implementation of the budget. This is an annual law that deals in more detail with matters which are systematically governed by the Public Finance Act. Hand to heart, it is customary that it also contains other budget-related solutions. The law on the implementation of the budget often regulates issues that should be regulated in other laws, but it is easier to lay down new or complementary solutions in this law. Such conduct has always angered such positions and opposition coalitions. Their dispute was also pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service, and that is how it works today. My former Minister, unfortunately already deceased Dr Andrej Bajuk, as President of the Commission for Budgetary Control, has marked the Government's over-authorities in budgetary interventions as a reduction in the role of Parliament and how he was right. The law that we have before us today differs from past laws on budget implementation by giving the Government significantly greater powers than it has previously had. It intervenes in the relationship between the legislative and executive branches of power. Instead of concrete measures to reduce wages, you are interfering with the autonomy and autonomy of public institutions. You're saving your pension money by draining the capital company. The scope of the debt is set at EUR 4 billion. Where are your actions now, not just words, but actions of termination? The country will be in charge of 70% of GDP after the end of your term of office. 70%! When you took the government into your hands, our country was in charge of 46.9%, and in four years you will increase it by 50%, and you talked about the end of the debt. The law on the implementation of the budget interferes with a number of laws, with some even the opposite, interferes even with the ZUJF, which is already amending 39 other laws. "It is time to ask ourselves what is allowed in the name of crisis resolution." was written by my former Secretary of State Mrs Kamnar in her article. And he's right! It is time to ask ourselves what is allowed in the name of crisis resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u275	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u276	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, the Budget Implementation Act allows budgets for 2013 and 2014 to be implemented. This law sets out the most urgent revenue measures in order to increase the revenue of the State or to limit on the other hand the expenditure of budgets at all levels; at national and municipal level. It also lays down the composition with the specificities of budget implementation, the scope of the debt and the guarantee of the State, the amount of the average amount belonging to the municipalities and the manner in which the commitments are made. Content provisions are stricter than the current regime, this law requires careful monitoring of expenditure from the budget at the same time as supervision. Investment transfers are also being reorganized. The proposal commits all budget users at the state, municipal level, including the ZPIZ and health treasury, to the mandatory reduction of the costs for civil servants' salaries and, on the other hand, enables faster and more efficient collection of European funds. This law, since it is restrictive, prohibits the payment of work performance until it adopts an annual amount of resources for the cost of work in the financial plan of the budget consumer, taking into account the assessment of the obligations by the end of the current year, showing the available resources. It is also a new arrangement that provides for the mandatory preparation of a half-year report or recovery plan. As I have already mentioned, the intervention in certain other areas and the imposition of certain real estate taxes regulates the jubilee awards and interferes with other state budget expenditure. I agree that this is my personal opinion that it would be good if the law were to intervene in other laws to the smallest extent possible or as few times as possible in order to make the legislation more transparent. The Slovenian Democratic Party will fully support the law, and individual amendments and solutions will be decided on a case-by-case basis when these amendments are submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u278	Good evening. We have previously held a rich debate on the 2013 budget and 2014 budget, and we are now considering the Budget Implementation Act. The first conclusion of the Social Democrats is that, according to the provisions of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the previous two documents, i.e. the budget, we do not need at all, because the Budget Implementation Act actually suspends the budget and gives the Government tremendous powers to reallocation. Let me mention that in the last 10 years, a process has been under way to increase Parliament's impact on the adoption of the budget and to reduce the government's impact on transfers within the exclusive competence of the government. With the introduction of the programme budget, for example, in 2010 and 2011, the government did not have the authority to modify the main programmes and policies, and at sub-programme level the scope of possible redeployments within the government's competence was only 10%. We now see a significantly different process when the government has significantly broader powers in this area and can redistribute at the level of sub-programmes, programmes, including policies. In this respect, the question is whether the budget is even needed if the government has such extensive powers. In any event, however, it would be appropriate to ask whether it would make sense for it to be accepted by the National Assembly. Since these are key documents of the country, we believe that it is essential that it be accepted by the National Assembly and that the National Assembly keep a close eye on the implementation of the budgets and when the government assesses the need for a more extensive redeployment, the Government prepares a rebalancing and re-presents it in the National Assembly. Therefore, in this part of the Law on the implementation of the budget, we cannot confidently support the Social Democrats. Secondly, public institutions are also losing the part of their independence under the applicable legislation, which is when preparing and adopting a final account. Instead of increasing autonomy, the administrative management of financiers is increasing. The Councils of the Institutions shall lose the importance of financial operations. The provisions of the law ignore the fact that part of the activities of institutions are also financed from market revenues. The necessary reduction in wage appropriations, as foreseen by both budgets, will be achieved through various measures that will have a reliable impact on the scope and quality of the public service in a given area, with a reduction in quality. In the light of the provisions of the Wage System Act and the Public Finance Balance Act, it is expected that this can only be achieved in certain areas through a substantial reduction in standards. Criminal provisions are much more acute than those relating to direct users of the budget, for which no reason can be seen. Instead of following the process of increasing autonomy, we are doing a reverse process. Debt over the next two years is foreseen at EUR 9,1 billion, one billion more than in 2010 and 2011. Where are the debt reduction commitments? Where are the end-of-debt commitments discussed by the finance minister? In this context, yesterday's re-presentation of the fiscal rule seems ridiculous because obviously there are no will and mechanisms to balance public finances in the medium term. Moreover, the abolition of the capital company is systematically incorporated into the law. In the Slovenian state holding company, some in the coalition have cashed in a significant victory and maintained a capital company within the Slovenian state holding company. What's going on now? The capital company is forced to sell its assets, shares in Krka, Gorenje, Petrol, Hit and other important companies in the Republic of Slovenia, by an obligation to finance the capital company's budget. Let's not destroy this property! Let us keep only the part that is sustainable for the capital company at EUR 50 million per year. For all these reasons, the Social Democrats will oppose the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u279	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mrs Polonca Komar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u280	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, my friend! Under the Finance Minister of the National Gazette and with the support of coalition partners, the Slovenian government managed for the first time in four years to reduce the deficit and limit the country's indebtedness. We promised knowledge, competence and results. We kept our promise with coalition partners. We also want to continue the trend in the future. As promised to our constituents and voters, in 2013 we would like to close the deficit below 3% of GDP. By the end of the term of office, we want to eliminate the budget deficit, so in practice we have to apply the principle that we can only spend as much as we create. Since the beginning, we have been trying to control consumption and employment in the public sector. We are more successful in this than in the autonomous sphere of government. The budget also entails the exercise of the responsibilities of the chairpersons for its implementation. This makes us realize the pre-election promises in the greater responsibility of public sector management. The budget is based on three assumptions: increasing revenues where those who can contribute, reducing expenditure in a way that minimises the impact of the economy and promotes growth as much as possible, and structural reforms. We need all three to implement it successfully. A law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is necessary for the smooth implementation of the budget adopted. The bill before us follows the Public Finance Act and its principles. With the implementation of this law, the state budget for 2013 and 2014 will be applied. In the Civil Gazette, we listened to NGOs and advocated a change in the dictatorship of the original 26th. The initial proposal of the law allowed the payment of advances to non-profit public and private persons only in cases where EU funds or other financial mechanisms were involved and with Slovenian participation. The amount was limited to 20% of the total value of the planned payments. However, the experience of non-governmental organisations shows that 20% of the prepayment is often insufficient for a successful start-up of projects and that the recipients are therefore dealing with significant liquidity problems, so we have increased these prepayments to 30% of the total value of the planned payments. We have also extended the range of entities that can receive these advances with amendments. We have also advocated the smooth and quality performance of RTV Slovenia since the beginning, so we have proposed an amendment to the original provision of Article 55 of this Act. First, we insisted on maintaining the RTV contribution at the current level, and later agreed with the other coalition partners that by also reducing the RTV contribution by 5% of RTV Slovenia as an institution will be relatively involved in the austerity measures, while allowing it to carry out a smooth public service in the field of radio and television activities set out in the RTV Slovenia Act. We have also heard comments on Articles 64 and 65 of the bill. The position of the National List is that the responsible persons of the direct and indirect budgetary users are not threatened with high penalties and even with discharge, but are intended only to draw attention to the seriousness of the situations in which we are and in which the responsible persons must also be aware. Therefore, with the amendment, we have reduced the initial penalty for the offence of the responsible person from EUR 10 to EUR 2 000 500, which is also in accordance with the Offences Act, and we have also made the infringements more clear. Finally, I would like to highlight the following. The government doesn't save, because whoever's saving has something saved in the end. And we still spend a lot more than we create. The government only limits the extent of the debt and reduces our burdens to future generations. Whoever's talking about saving doesn't understand the best finances. Promoting growth means adopting structural reforms that enable the economy to do so. Large state investments in a small and open economy have never been effective and will never be. Instead, competitiveness and innovation must be strengthened, which is the only way. We are an export-import economy and our only hope is to open up and compete in the world markets. In the Civil Gazette, we will support the Budget Implementation Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u281	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u282	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary of Finance, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the Budget Implementation Act for the next two years. The provisions of the law are a little stricter and more precise than before, but we must be aware that the situation in the area of public finances is very difficult for us. The law requires a very thorough monitoring of the expenditure of the budget while at the same time increasing supervision. Among other things, the text introduces a real estate tax worth more than half a million euros. We also find it very important to have an arrangement whereby a semi-annual report is drawn up for budgetary users and a mandatory preparation of the recovery plan should the expenditure on public service expenditure be found to be exceeded. In doing so, it is worth mentioning some of the provisions that we have subsequently agreed upon. Thus, for certain persons of public or private law, we have allowed up to 30% of the advance payment, and in this way we have tried to enable the widest possible participation of these companies in the various calls for proposals. Indeed, we also impose criminal sanctions or fines on the responsible persons of the direct or indirect user of the budget, the State or the municipality, if they do not work in accordance with pre-determined baselines, do not prepare a demanding recovery plan or create deficits in payroll accounts. The worst violations may also result in the discharge of the responsible person. There is also an infamous Article 55, which determines the amount of the contribution to the programmes of Radiotelevision Slovenia. In the Slovenian People's Party, we rightly expressed our fear that the reduction of the contribution would be a shock to this public institution, especially because we have not reduced its legal obligations. On the other hand, and this is even more important to us, there are positive developments in the operation of the institution. So it is evident that on Radiotelevision Slovenia began to reorganise and rationalise business, they started to correct irregularities and it is obvious that something is moving in their logic. The coalition has thus concluded a compromise proposal that reduces the RTV contribution by 5%. In this way, our public television is also involved in solving crisis situations, while this intervention in its financing is still modest enough to avoid any major interventions in the preparation of content. The Budget Implementation Act is good budget support for the next two years. It is an important part of the introduction of more responsible public administration and the basis for the implementation of public financial consolidation in the coming years. That is how the Members of the Slovenian People's Party are fully supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u283	On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs. Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u284	Thank you for your word. Once again, good evening! It's already dark out there, isn't it? We have a technical law to monitor the budget for the next two years. Its aim is to legalise solutions for the current, smooth implementation of the budget. Over the next two years, this is how – once again, I stress – the budget deficit is trying to decrease below 3% of gross domestic product. For 2013, the budget deficit is projected to fall to 2.8% and in 2014 to 2.5%. For the implementation of the budget, Slovenia will be able to repay up to EUR 3.1 billion. This law gives the government clear powers regarding the possibility of managing the state budget and borrowing. It regulates assigned revenue and expenditure. The law interferes with a wide range of social life. It reduces the averages that belong to municipalities from the selected income. The property tax limit is lower than half a million. It reduces the RTV contribution, now only half of the previous proposal. It obliges budget users to reduce the cost of salaries and prohibits them from paying work performance allowances and also intervenes in pensions and regulates a new or additional resource to cover the minus in the pension register. The purpose of the law before us, together with the budgets under consideration, is to try to correct the expenditure side of the budget by means of revenue. But we know what their relationship is today. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware that the economic, financial crisis has done its part and has completely crippled the main budget funder, this is our economy. In addition, we must not blind ourselves to the fact that the spending of the State on all segments of public funds is excessive. This calls for cuts in public spending in all areas until the crisis is over until we get back to positive economic growth. Until then, God himself knows when, however, it should be clear to all that we have nothing left but to save and manage wisely with what we currently have. As far as the pensions provided for by this law are concerned, let me put it this way. In the basic proposal for this law, the Government has proposed full freezing in the coming years. The Coalition Treaty does not provide for this freeze as it provides for the harmonisation of pensions already in the following year. Since the reconciliation of pensions has been partially frozen for two years and pensions have not been coordinated at all in the last year and since we are aware in DeSUS that the general social financial situation in the country is extremely critical, we have agreed to a compromise solution, which – I must stress – is certainly better than this year's zero-coordination. In this law, the reconciliation of pensions over the next two years is linked to the system law, that is, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act-2, which we adopt or adopted yesterday. The latter provides that pensions shall be aligned once a year with a formula corresponding to wage tracking of 60% and the monitoring of living costs, an increase in the cost of living of 40%. It is envisaged that under no circumstances can the pension be reconciled for less than half the wage increase. Given the public financial situation for 2013, coordination is envisaged, but not as set out in the basic Article, but with wage growth and a maximum of 50 million. This is also the amount that the budget does not contribute but is provided by the budget. The reconciliation of pensions over the coming years is conditional on the adoption and implementation of the new pension law, which we have already adopted. Pensions can be coordinated in the future on the basis of the adopted law and pension law, so this act will be supported by the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u285	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and on the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 26 and the amendment of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 26. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. The amendment to Article 48, this is the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors. No desire to discuss it. Yeah? Mr. Janko Weber. Who else? No, no, no. Then the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 51. Can I help you? No, no, no. Amendment of Article 55 of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. We have two amendments to Article 55. We will discuss the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Ma'am mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u286	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I apologize for the complication of previous amendments. Article 55 touches on the level of the contribution to RTV Slovenia programmes. This is one of those articles that does not actually judge in the ZIPRO because, under the RTV Act, the amount of the contribution should be determined by the RTV Act. The error or fact is that the amount of RTV contribution to ZIPRO from the time when the RTV Act was rejected at the referendum was not enough time for the amount of RTV contribution to be corrected and included in the RTV Act. Therefore, there was a short-term drop and then we put RTV in the ZIPRO. This unacceptable situation continues with Article 55. There was no reason why we could not determine the amount of RTV contributions at the prescribed time and correct the law. All the time since Ivan Janša's team joined the government, there's been talk about reforming the RTV Act, and that's not what happened. And now we get a correction of the prescribed or ordered contribution for natural and legal persons who, in my opinion, wanted to punish the public service of RTV and reduced the RTV contribution. In particular, I stress that this is an RTV contribution paid by households from their own resources. These are not state budget funds, and this is essential. If we cared about public service to the extent and at least in quality as it is now, then this proposal would not be accepted by the coalition. The desire to reduce the RTV contribution is no different from the desire to discipline, intimidate and punish. For it is true that the Court of Auditors' report by imposing certain corrections on the public authority, but what has happened in this mandate with RTV, is on the verge of an incredible, from the unacceptable resolution of the Supervisory Board to this last act. With the half-predicted intention of lowering the RTV contribution, the coalition has also done damage to the public institution, indeed slightly smaller, which can hide behind the popular 5%, because 5% is something that is flat-rate and has been taken from everyone, although we know that 5% in wages is not always 5% and that 5% can be 16% or 20% when the funds are being cut. After public pressure, however, after calls not to destroy or destroy the public institution of RTV, after unwillingness to discuss what civil service and citizens of Slovenia we expect to hear before, the amendment that has been tabled to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget has now erupted and we have been in some absurd situation. Are we up or down? As of 31 December, the RTV contribution at the level set now, at 12,75, will be shut down for a large majority of households. If the RTV contribution is not determined by the ZIPRO, it will see the void and RTV will be even more embarrassing than the reduced RTV contribution. ZIPRO has been redefined because this is the ZIPRO for 2013 and for 2014 and the RTV contribution has not been committed to any amount. The question is whether or not he wanted to keep the state as it was. Therefore, the amendment of the Social Democrats reverts to the original version of the proposed RTV Act, which holds all categories of RTV contribution at the level adopted today by the government of Borut Pahor, who hoped to raise RTV's contribution at the time when the previous Director-General had the main word on RTV, and even when one of the members of the programme council close to the government coalition gave a public thanks to the Government for having listened to the needs of the public institution and RTV's contribution. I understand that the SDS is in great distress, because the first so-called Grims Act on RTV was applied with a password on a reduced RTV contribution, I understand this embarrassment, but at least when would we expect the author of this law to convince his colleagues and colleagues about the constitutional right to information to which he would like to refer. And the first task of the Public Institute of RTV is to provide a quality information programme. In addition, we constantly deal with the idea of whether the viewership of individual broadcasts can be the only criterion that determines whether certain broadcasts are still worth investing in, preparing or not. Let me warn you that the law has a clear definition of why it has to take care of everything, and it also needs to take care of the share of the financing of the Slovenian Film Centre in a new way. This duty also reduces RTV contributions. However, the Constitutional Court has already stated in the past that the means of carrying out statutory tasks must not be affected. I think there has been a lot of talk about how we could use an in-depth debate on what the scope of public service should be, but at the same time we should ensure quality. RTV Slovenia is financed as the largest cultural institution from three sources. First of all, from the budget. Dr Göncz spoke about this in the position of the Group of People's Communities, and he was excellent at showing that there is no point in talking about it. I just want to say that I support his views because we have a legal, constitutional obligation to do so. I have received the reply to the question that the resources in the budget for this part of the activity will not be at the same level, but that the funds will be reduced. So here's the first reduction. The second reduction is from market activity. Much of the funds from market activities are obtained from advertising messages. Following the will of the National Assembly, the time for advertising for a programme hour was reduced from nine minutes to seven minutes, and the commercial woman has the right to 12 minutes, and I should remind you again that the European Directive does not require separation between commercial and national audiovisual activities. But that was our decision, and by our decision, we reduced the inflows from market activity. And the third source is the RTV subscription. Now, as far as I follow the debates in the National Assembly, RTV is always a stumbling block. This is because of the individual's contribution to the interpretation of cumulative data or by comparing the amount of the contribution with another country that has a much larger market and a lot more contributors to the budget, with the service of the BBC, for example, or with Italian television. It seems irresponsible to me that at the same time we are asking television to perform all the tasks it has to perform by law and that we have constant comments on the quality of the prepared and at the same time cut the funds! It seems to me that the best way out of this embarrassment is to accept the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors or of Positive Slovenia, which in the text ZIPRO returns the level of contribution for individual categories as it was in 2012. We do not go lower or higher — we keep things the way they are. We don't work against viewers or audiences or listeners because we took things from them as legislators and we don't take them here. We believe that with all the savings, with all the revenue cuts, quality public service is very important. Of course, individual notions of what quality journalism should be are probably different, and this can once again become the subject of betting, as was the case with the previous item on the agenda, where the coalition felt that the opposition should not make amendments, that it should not think otherwise than the coalition's thoughts. I'm just wondering where then is the new time that has come, the time of mutual understanding and cooperation, when we will listen and when we will understand cooperation. But not that the other who is smaller, which is the opposition, will only quietly agree to everything he says is great, but that the great will acknowledge or show generosity for the ideas of the small and will accept his amendment. So I am calling for understanding the embarrassment in which the public agency RTV is located, because we will all feel the consequences, and then we will say why there is no such thing and that. Do you recall any embarrassment that we witnessed under that provision of the ZUJF when contracts were not to be concluded in public institutions? Then we'll tell you why they're going to delete my show, why not the others. After all, the programming board has taken some time to decide where they will cut, if we lower the RTV contribution to the proposed height, as is now recorded in the ZIPRO, that is 12.11. I propose that we allow the Programme Council to carry out their work, while respecting the legal provisions, with a safe and careful review of the actual costs for the decisive resolution of weaknesses identified by the Court of Auditors, so that the Supervisory Board can be in a new composition, as this will now be your Supervisory Board, finding that the Public Service is doing well and responsible. Once again, I look forward to supporting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u287	Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u288	Thank you. It was really nice to hear this. There was only one mistake at the starting point. Amnesia is always a major problem, i.e. in ZIPro the amount of RTV contribution was not found because the broader RTV Act was rejected at the referendum but was there a year before. This was the sovereign decision of the then coalition on the proposal of Minister Majda Shirca, and you will not believe this non-systemic solution, this mistake, as Mrs Potata herself said today, was then the same Mrs Potara advocated with the passion of a fiery girl. In view of the evening that is today, it is Miklavz’s evening, it is so typical: If a girl in a fire of passion errs too much, she repents this evening.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u289	Mag. Majda Potrat, the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u290	Thanks for this trip. I would return with a certain title of the literary text: Good girls come to heaven and bad girls everywhere. Let's be serious now and get on with the darkness, because the darkness is serious and has nothing to do with repentance, with darkness, with evening, and I don't know what else to do. We talk about serious things and try to minimize the problem by stumbling into the personal qualities of another person. What was ever proposed or not proposed is clear to me, but Mr Grims, at the time I was the chairman of a committee with a slightly different name than yours, and it was necessary to ensure that the public institution had the funding provided. We have never hidden this from ZIPRO, and if we were correct, then we would say that you did not wish to convene urgent meetings of the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth, as we suggested, to consider the proposal to convene an urgent meeting prior to the consideration of ZIPRO, and we could adopt two very important conclusions that would facilitate. The first would be that the future RTV contribution should be set out in the law and the second conclusion that the RTV contribution should remain at the level we discussed. But you prefer to call an urgent meeting on the sins that occur on RTV, and you only started on RTV and information in the request. Well, thank God you decided to withdraw that meeting, but you've already done some damage, if that's what we're talking about. If you thought that you would be able to share the session by repositioning it for tomorrow, that the invited ones would probably have to wait at a high start to run to the meeting – because I have experienced some of these things before you, that you have moved and then the invited ones have not been informed in time when they should come to the meeting, and we have started a meeting about the problems they are facing without them. This could happen to us tomorrow. Mr Grimms, I'm not saying any regrets, I'm just saying a great deal of willingness to settle a question that's poorly settled. That's right! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u291	Good, if there is no further desire to discuss the amendments to Article 55. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment of the Ambassadors' Groups of Positive Slovenia and the National List to Article 59. Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u292	Thank you very much for your word, my dear fellow. This is about an amendment that is uncoordinated coalitionly. I must say that some things have been dealt with very intensively today, and this proposal, which is now being tabled, was not triggered by any of the coalition partners when we addressed the amendments to the Law on Budget Implementation. The second thing that's being asked here is also a procedural question. We have a 117th Rule of the Rules of Procedure which regulates precisely the order in which the proposals are dealt with when they are tabled. Given that we have a law in the procedure governing the same social relationship as the proposed amendment and it has been tabled earlier, I think that the President of the National Assembly should reject this amendment until the vote on the Public Finance Balance Act is concluded. That's what I think would be a normal duty. This is the same as if a law governing the same social relationship, which has a second treatment completed, was preceded by a solution, with a law that came into the procedure subsequently. This is also because the amendment you tabled to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget was completely identical, rejected in the debate on the working body when the Law on the Balance of Public Finance was considered. Given that the President of the National Assembly should be particularly concerned that all matters take place in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the rules we have in the National Assembly, and that he or she is alone among the actors or his or her parliamentary group in the introduction of this law, which interferes with the same social relationship as the law that is already in the procedure in the National Assembly and that, with the second treatment already concluded on the working body, in my opinion, is quite controversial for substantive and perhaps other reasons. I would also like to draw attention to the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service. Dr. Divac, who we have in the National Assembly appointed by you in the National Assembly, in the services of the National Assembly for that legal expert in charge of this law, has specifically pointed out at the meeting of the working body, noting that it is not defined to the content of this amendment and to its purpose, because it is not within his jurisdiction that this arrangement, which you have proposed and is now in force, is unregulated and warns of the pure retroactivity of this law, with which you would reach 40,000 new ones who would have taken or reduced their pensions. Thus, in terms of respect for the services of the National Assembly, which you have very often referred to, the President-in-Office of the National Assembly, it would be good to read the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on this particular arrangement that you are now proposing. Finally, I must also point out that the law extends the burden on the new 40 000 pensioners, who will reach out to them in these rights. Now those pensioners who have a pension of just over €622 will be forced to pay pensions to those who have a thousand €200 or a thousand €500 pension. If this is a proposal that follows the principle of righteousness, then it is a strange explanation of righteousness. In doing so, I must say that in our parliamentary group of this amendment we will certainly not support it because it interferes with the rights of those who have lower pensions, because it extends the circle of those who will be affected by this law three times, and because it is also not consistent with the justice that you so like to defend. Above all, it is not because the Legislative and Legal Service has warned that this proposal causes pure retroactivity, not law, but pure retroactivity, because certain transitional matters are not regulated in the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u293	Before the Magi debate. Alenke Bratusek would only react to this process. I have already ordered that the Legislative and Legal Service check on the procedural accuracy of this amendment. This is probably also agreed by the proposalers, given that this same issue is also addressed by the amendment of the ZUJF, which we have in the procedure. We'll get a position and then I'll make up my mind on this. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u294	Unfortunately, it does not regulate the same matter, otherwise it would not have been here because your coalition colleagues with great enthusiasm on Saturday's committee rejected it, unfortunately. However, I am pleased at one part of Mr Tank's implementation, and this is the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. Because I now believe that from now on, nothing more will be accepted by the Legislative and Legal Service as controversial, unconstitutional and so forth. Mr Tanko, please read the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service on the basic ZUJF, which has done what we are correcting today. I think there were more than 20 pages of comments, but you didn't have any problem, everything was fine and right. You didn't say anything! Law enforcement said it wasn't right. Nice! If we have already been working through the Law and Law Service or you have been working, then from now on new standards and criteria and nothing that the Law and Law Service opposes will not be accepted if I have properly understood your implementation. And we wouldn't even talk about it today if we didn't make the same difference as you did – separate the pensioners from those of yours and ours, and that's the problem. I would like to – and for us, this amendment is a compromise – we wanted to get into our original state. But because, believe it or not, we know that the financial situation in Slovenia is not in the best condition, we were prepared to agree to this compromise. How many times have you asked us to come together and find solutions together? How many times! But walking together doesn't mean standing on one end, us on the other, and now we're gonna wait for someone to get there all the way – you have to find yourself somewhere in the middle. Mr. Tanko, this isn't the middle. We can also change by putting everything back where it was. That was our basic proposal. I also ask that we do not deceive people, ourselves, to interfere now with retroactivity and not know what else. We know when the Budget Implementation Act comes into force. You read the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, where this has not been specified so precisely in the case of the ZUJF. However, the Law on the implementation of the budget is very precise when it enters into force. So that opinion can't be exactly the same. I ask you, colleagues and colleagues, to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u295	Good. As it is said, I have already ordered the Legal and Legislative Service to draw up an opinion on the procedural question, the proposers, if we can vote on this amendment in accordance with Rule 116, Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure. As usual, I'm just gonna stick to it. The word has magic. Kristina Valenčič, then Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u296	Thank you for your word. Since I have been involved in this process alone and also the National Gazette, allow me a brief explanation or explanation from our side. I cannot agree that this amendment has not been coalitionly coordinated. We have invested a lot of energy in bringing the coalition into line with this amendment and we have failed to do so. That is why we tried with our amendment on Saturday on the Committee on Finance, and we were not successful there either. As we have had our last chance today, we have taken advantage of this opportunity because we firmly believe that we are eliminating unjust or unequal interference with rights. True, yes, we will increase the circle of beneficiaries in which we are interfering, but these burdens will be more evenly distributed. And that's why we believe in this amendment with all our heart, and that's why I support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u297	Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u298	Thank you very much. With regard to the resolution of Article 143 of the ZUJF, all those who have the will to look at and read the constitutional complaints that have been made. The Constitutional Court has rejected all the complaints made so far to the Proposal for a Law on Public Finance Balance. So far, no beneficiary has appeared to be able to repeal the provision in the Constitutional Court. The ZPS warning – and the president of the National Assembly can smile like that – is correct here because this representative warned in this particular case of the amendment tabled, because some other things are not regulated, of pure retroactivity. You also have this in your magnetogram. The text of this amendment does not differ in any way from what was tabled on the working body, nor does the amendment receive sufficient support there. I propose, Mr President, before we proceed with the debate at all, that we may just suspend the meeting and get an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service. I think it would be good for you to take care of this, especially since you're a lawyer and you're probably reading things, and the Legal and Legal Service, if you respect her opinion, wrote this to you on Saturday, when this was discussed, was well known. This isn't from today, it hasn't come back yet, but it's been known since then. I'm surprised you tabled an amendment that interferes with pure retroactivity. In the Law on Members, we dealt with improper retroactivity, and that was a kind of understandable intervention. Here, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, we deal with pure retroactivity and with an intervention in the rights of an additional 40 or more thousand people. The vast majority of them are those above the threshold of €622, and they will, for the sake of some, pay their contribution to those who have a thousand, 200, 000, 500 euros in pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u299	As we say, Mr Tanko, I will take this proposal into account, and before I put an amendment to the vote – but I have some time to do so – we will gain an opinion and I will take it into account because I am for things to be resolved in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. But it is necessary to be precise. In my procedural decisions, I always hold to the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Services concerning procedural matters, but when it comes to the substantive comments of the SPS on various proposals, I leave it to Members and Members to assess whether these comments are such as to convince or not to prevent you. On procedural issues, however, it is the President who decides. Let's move on. Mr Matjaž Han spoke, then Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Next, I will vote against this amendment, although I appreciate the efforts made by the Positive Slovenia and the National Gazette to in some way remedy the damage done by Janša's coalition in this mandate, which took a good part of the pensioners' pensions. I can't help but think that this was based on ideology. If we have wronged 27,000 people and our Social Democrats Group has twice passed a law that would correct these injustices, I cannot accept the fact that, because of the compromises, for my understanding of the wrongs, we are going to wrong another 40,000 pensioners. It would be the wisest thing for all the 27,000 pensioners you took from them with the basic ZUJF to return these pensions, and I hope that the Constitutional Court will determine this and that we will have to pay the pensioners back. That is why the amendment, which would further reduce 5% of pensionable pensionable pensioners by 40 000 who are innocent, cannot be supported. And so I would remind you, Madam President, as Mr Tank, who is now referring to the Legislative and Legal Service, once again, that it is a good thing to take the legislative and legal service into account over time when we adopt laws. Thank you very much. I will vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u301	Mag. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u302	Mr. Han, what's to blame for this 27,000 if we're left with 40,000? [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, we have tabled amendments, but unfortunately this coalition is not working. But still 5% is significantly less than 25 or more, and that is the only reason we have signed under this amendment. Now, just one more time about these back effects. The Law on the implementation of the budget shall enter into force on 1 January, Mr Tanko, 1 January 2013. How it can work backwards, I don't know, and I don't understand what retroactivity. From 1 January forward, it will be as stated in this amendment if we accept it. No accounts are foreseen and so on, there would be no doubt. And again. You read the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service when this article was in the proposal ZUJF. It was not specified when that law entered into force. For the Law on the implementation of the budget, it is perfectly clear that it shall enter into force or enter into force on 1 January 2013. So there's no problem with that. Once again, it was with great joy to support this — and so was our amendment on Saturday — to return to all those who, in my opinion, were also innocent, or who were on the wrong side at the time, according to some estimates. That's why I don't think it's right, and that's why we support this amendment, so that at least a larger part of it, I'm talking a little bit, will eliminate these injustices.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u303	Mr Jerko Chehovin, then Mr Frangež and Mr Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u304	Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u305	Excuse me, procedurally. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u306	Thank you, President. See, given that Article 73 makes it very clear: if the National Assembly decides that it is necessary to obtain the opinion of working bodies, the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government, the President shall terminate the consideration of the item on the agenda. As far as I understand correctly, the National Assembly has not yet decided to obtain an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, but it is the President's view that this position is to be gained. Therefore, I am procedurally proposing that the National Assembly decide to obtain an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service and to terminate this point until we have an opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u307	Look, I don't think that's necessary because we'll get the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service in time for the vote. That's essential. Procedurally, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u308	Mr President, it has been happening for some time now for us to adopt a agenda to adopt a timetable, to set up a college, to confirm it, and then to improvise something. It would be good if they ever arranged their work to have at least enough stability to know exactly what lies ahead. But then we were under pressure, which is now said to be tonight – and Mr Grims was talking about Miklavsev's evening – and then we should vote and then we should vote and probably anyone who wants to explain their voice would have a nice look at the other side. I therefore propose that we, however, act as it has been stipulated and announced that the vote will be tomorrow. Then there is really no regret at ten o'clock at night to interrupt the meeting and to consider this point because it is so foretold for tomorrow morning at nine o'clock in the morning. I don't know where the reasons are for not being able to do that. I will justify this to you, Mr President, by one more argument. The media thought that we didn't have Friday's decision after the schedule because we were afraid. It is not good for us to change the announced decisions, for some people to follow us and to adjust their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u309	Thank you. Well, we'll talk about it, we'll talk about it when we're done. I will put two conclusions to the vote in a row. The first decision will be to obtain an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service on whether the procedural assumptions for the amendment tabled are met and the second proposal will decide that the meeting is suspended. My view is that the first decision is logical, so that we will gain an opinion and on the second, I do not think it is necessary, because the Legislative and Legal Service can prepare this opinion at the time it is necessary to decide. So, first of all, I am putting to the vote a proposal for a decision to obtain an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service on the fulfilment of the procedural conditions for the amendment to Article 59. Please see if your voting devices work or insert cards. We're voting on the proposal. There are 64 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The decision is adopted. We are now voting on the proposal to end the meeting. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 38. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 38.]] So we continue the meeting and the opinion will be prepared. There's still a desire to discuss it. Mr. Jerko Chehovin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u310	Thank you. As far as Article 143 of the ZUJF is concerned, I think he has done more harm in this country than he has done. In fact, we cannot avoid the impression that this nationalisation of the work of pensions is for certain groups, a kind of ethnocide. Here we have come to the point that from month to month we are shortening these kinds, and eventually it will turn out to be just some groups of pensioners who just don't like them. That is why I think this proposal, which was prepared, in a way really compromises, for those who are disadvantaged, which means that at least some of it gets them. I don’t know why it’s such a joy if we rob someone of something — we’re not talking about retrograde. We're breaking the whole constitution and constitutional law. We have passed a certain constitutional law. [[Incomprehensible]] Articles 14 and 18 of the Constitutional Law, which means that we are an unworthy country or Members if we deliberately violate the Constitution. These people are justly affected. I think you've all received some bitter letters here, as well as visits if you're even accepting them. And that's why, in a way, I'll say, I support. Mr. Tanko, I must say, is a doctor of deception. When he speaks of the Constitutional Court, he only says part of the truth. The Constitutional Court has not yet considered any of these proposals, but has only rejected the retention of the measures of all applicants. So speaking of the Constitutional Court rejecting initiatives is not true. I don't think we can do anything like this and make things up when it suits you – we say what suits us. When we want to hurt someone, we are happy to hurt them with some vote. In such matters as human rights abuses, I believe that a maximum consensus must be reached in the National Assembly. From this point of view, I would like to thank the Civil Code that, as a liberal party, it has recognized this error and that it is at least trying to partially mitigate the consequences. The Constitutional Court will still be able to discuss this. However, I think that some people or some of the categories of people involved will not even wait for economic growth in Slovenia to rise by 2.5%. Most of these people will be retired by the time economic growth rises. Today, English Minister of Finance Osborne said that it will not be for them until 2018. However, we continue to argue and say that in two, three years' time, we will have an excellent situation and that economic growth will be such that it will allow these criminal provisions of the ZUJF to be eliminated. In this case, ZUJF is not an intervention law. ZUJF is actually a system law under which a lot of people are wronged in this country. And that's why I think it's a shame to look for some procedural and I don't know, different flaws, because it's about, once again, an extermination, at least partially eliminating the shameful 143rd article.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u311	Mr. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u312	I am one of those who supported this amendment on Saturday at the Finance Committee. But I'll admit that he's giving me a number of concerns today. The fact is, it is the most comprehensive and consistent solution that is our common expectation of the Constitutional Court. This is that the Constitutional Court, so I am sure, considers that an infringement of the rights acquired by beneficiaries under Article 143 of the Law on the Balance of Public Finance has been an unconstitutional intervention in their situation. I would like to point out that before the vote, we have another amendment, an amendment proposed by the Positive Slovenia, which will receive the support of the Social Democrats. This is an amendment to provide an additional €80 million in the state budget, so that we have the financial basis for the elimination of the injustices under Article 143 of the Public Finance Balance Act. In this situation, I am pleased that a decision has been taken to obtain an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service. I wouldn't want to be involved in any kind of unconstitutional conduct. Of course, the unconstitutional effect arises whether it constitutes an intervention of EUR 5 in the assets of someone or EUR 100. The anti-constitutional effect exists in any case and, in this respect, it seems to me to be significantly safer to remain waiting for the Constitutional Court to judge in its best interests, and that on the other hand, the opposition is always working again with further proposals for amendments to the ZUJF in order to finally achieve the deletion of Article 143. So, before further definitions – Alenka, I hope you understand this – I will wait for the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, and then we will decide how this amendment should be determined. Undoubtedly, however, whether injustice is greater or smaller, injustice always remains, and this must guide us. And the National Assembly cannot participate in potentially unconstitutional consequences.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u313	Mr. Matjaž Han, then Mrs. Masha Kociper. [[advertising from the hall]] Mrs. Masha Kociper, then Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u314	I'm going to have a very brief discussion. I regret to miss part of Mr Tank's debate on retroactivity. I will not interfere with this part of the procedural solutions – or as you said, presidents – that will be declared by the Legislative and Legal Service, but only as far as this amendment is concerned. I did not take part in the drafting of this amendment myself, but in reviewing this amendment, I can see no problem with retroactivity. The amendment, as it should, refers to the enforcement of the law and binds some rights the day before the entry into force of this law which brings this amendment into force, or the exercise of rights, such as the exercise of rights after the entry into force of this law. Therefore, such an examination – I do not hope to say 1000% – shows that we cannot talk about any retroactivity in this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u315	Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u316	Thank you, President. I will vote against the amendment. I must say that this amendment is like a two-faced leadership of the National Assembly. You speak publicly of respect for the rule of law, but you are violating it yourself. In this amendment – this is your law, Virant's parties, right – you have wronged 26,000 people. It is likely that these people will be able to challenge her constitutionally or otherwise. Now you want to correct this mistake in a way that uses the opposition to further harm 40,000 Slovenian pensioners. Aren't you ashamed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u317	Anyone else on this amendment? Mr. Matjaz Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u318	Just one more addition. Three days ago, when we adopted the pension reform, there was an amendment and money for the coordination of pensions, 50 million at the annual level. If only half of that money were cut, these 29,000 people we have wronged could be fixed. But because DeSUS wanted its political prestige, there was money for this, for 27,000 people who we had wronged and who would be through the Constitutional Court – and I don't know what the Constitutional Court has been doing for six months – and they've concentrated our country and there's no funding. Today, however, we would be doing injustice to another 40,000 people and would take those few euros out of their wallets to see their problems even more each day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u319	Mrs. Masha Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u320	Yeah, about the last two debates. I have to tell my colleagues from SD that I'm surprised at your behavior. Rarely does one of the coalition's parties encourage and support any initiative of the opposition very rarely happen to us in the National Assembly, and in such a case, we would expect the courage of the party to support all those who are in opposition. And that we're not petty about whether the solution is half or half. I assure you that in such a case, the Positive Slovenia would do otherwise and would support the courage of the party that predates this division into opposition and coalition. I can't help but say it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u321	Dr. Andrei Black Nebula, then Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Well, I may have dealt with this issue more than any other Member, and I must admit that I had great dilemmas in me myself, but a respected colleague, a former constitutional judge wrote that this law is double-constitutional; for the first time because it makes differences between one and the other pensioners, this is said between pensioners and pensioners under article 232, and for the second time it is unconstitutional because it divides the pensioners in article 232 within myself. This is our answer, why we cannot support this amendment. So let's say, let's share the ashes and let's say there was a cardinal error here that divided the Slovenian nation completely by unnecessary, another conflict that we don't need. Let's crack those 18 million euros and solve the problem and say mea culpa, that's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u323	Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u324	It is true that there is a difference. But the difference is whether someone wants to trade, they're trading in an account of 40,000 innocent pensioners. That's you, and we don't want that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u325	Mag. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u326	I am very disappointed that today we have the most bile discussions when we talk about hungry children and pensioners. I'm really sorry that we can't and can't unify in these two things. After all, we can still try to change the ZUJF over and over again, but unfortunately they don't listen to us, they don't hear us and we don't get enough votes. I don't know if we should start setting ourselves on fire in front of parliament to hear that there are also different solutions. Once again, this is just a compromise; look at the 26 thousand who have today – how much less, how much less? I won't convince you again. But I'm really disappointed that these two categories, the pensioners, we're talking like we're trading a little bit up here, a little bit there, a little bit up there, a little bit down there. All those belonging to that article would settle in the same way, that is a fact. This is a fact because some are affected by more than 25% – but significantly, substantially less But I will no longer convince you. [[...]] With regard to the valorisation of pensions, there is only one thing – not one euro, respected colleagues and colleagues from DeSUS – in the budget is provided for the valorisation of pensions so that there will be no confusion. The budget in this segment is exactly the same as the first one we got before you started any coalition coordination. Not to think that you have the €50 million allocated for valorisation, unless there is an account going through the budget. So also for valorisation, Comrade Matjaž, is not guaranteed. Perhaps it does not matter, for it is likely that the ones we are talking about today are sad that we are talking about them in this way. At first I said that he divided Slovenia and divided the pensioners into yours and ours – I agree, but do you have any other solution, or wait five years for the Constitutional Court to say whether it is or not?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u327	Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u328	Thank you for your word. I think that it is the intention of us to accept everything on the average, so I would kindly ask those of us who, in your own profession, are lawyers to try to understand that this is not exactly the kind of debate and half-solution that strengthens confidence in law. It's simply that a mistake has been made. The coalition does not want to acknowledge it, and as an opposition party, we have twice done what we thought must be done, that is to say, to delete the unjust provision. If I look at it for some very simple reason, because people are hurt; if someone hits me, it can hit me hard or a little less hard, but it will still hurt because it hurts even more at the symbolic level. But if he hits me, then why would he have to make a decision to hit someone else next to me? Dear fellow Member, I know it is not nice when you feel alone in Parliament and that your solution, which is well thought, will not be supported, but as a member of the opposition party with ten Members, I often feel like I only see eight or ten votes against – depending on how many of us – but I am not angry at anyone because it is free will and decision. It was hard on me on Saturday at the Finance Committee twice. It was because I was on the Committee on Finance, and secondly, because some of my decisions not to support this amendment were accompanied by a great misunderstanding. I had to have a very intense conversation with myself to clear up whether I would be able to deal with the alleged injury and anger of those who would be satisfied with the adoption of this amendment, or whether I would rather insist on what I think is right — a clean solution. I've decided to make a clean decision, which means it's only acceptable for me to do away with the original injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u329	We can go to the debate on Article 62 and the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats, the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia and the amendment of the coalition's sent groups to Article 62. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u330	Thank you. This 62nd Article of the Law on the implementation of the budget is truly extremely interesting. In principle, it was envisaged to sell EUR 3.4 billion for the purpose of providing 120 million in one year and the next EUR 120 million for the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute, as well as pension funds. The amendments we have on the table are changing the flow in a way that I assume will not be adopted by our amendment, which speaks of this article being deleted and that we do not do that when it is least worth it, because we will need it tomorrow and tomorrow even more if we want to raise the gross domestic product. We've already talked about the budget today. Gross domestic product is falling, unemployment is rising, and you are still peacefully insisting that the state property needs to be sold and filled, because these will be very low prices when it is sold, especially private pockets. With this amendment proposed by the coalition, you will not go to the destruction of the Capital Company, as the capital company should sell all its assets as originally planned. You've decided that the Capital Society will not sell this property, but sell the Energy. So, the most profitable sector in Slovenia, which is heavily owned by the country, will be sold out by the 62nd Article of the Budget Implementation Act in 2013, 2014. Are we really so eager to privatize Energy that we don't care what happens tomorrow? Are we so eager to sell out the lowest value of the most precious assets? Energy is the one that makes the profits. These profits can be invested further in investments, these investments are hydroelectric, specifically in Sava, a chain of hydroelectric power plants. This means encouraging investment and encouraging gross domestic product as well. Energy could provide European banks with favourable loans to boost economic growth in Slovenia through investments in Energy. And you make a calm decision to sell your energy. Once again, I can peacefully argue that the Prime Minister of the Government has this immediate priority as a change in the political system, he wants to blur the situation in Slovenia and here again reveals what you want to do. In this particular case, sell energy. What is the sound reason why you sell energy when it's the least valuable thing on the market? You are consciously giving up investments that really raise gross domestic product, economic growth, more revenue in the budget, then we have fewer problems, or someone will be hungry, we have fewer problems with how much money we will give to boost the development of the economy, less problems with how much infrastructure we will build. Once again you prove that the development of Slovenia is not in your interest, but exclusively the final privatisation of state property. Filling your private pockets is the only priority you have before you and you don't see a meter left and right, but achieve a goal at all costs. In doing so, you are making peaceful use of the pension system that will buy you the money that is missing in the 2013 and 2014 budgets. There's no more property once you sell it. He's gone! I would really like to get an answer on how you will raise economic growth, how you will ensure a higher gross domestic product and consequently the higher budgets that we urgently need in order to ensure an adequate social level, an adequate social status for everyone in Slovenia and, above all, new jobs. You don't care if you put the highest-quality jobs at risk. In fact, when you privatize Energy, Energy will have no interest in investing in the needs that we show as a country that solves its needs, but this private interest will first take care of itself. He's going to try to get even more profits, and this can only be obtained by reducing wages for all the employees in Energy. If this is not enough, of course a certain number of people will only be forgiven for the reason that profit will be significantly higher – a completely untransparent way of managing state assets. The capital investment management agency is at large. You don't have leadership, the members of the agency's council have resigned, and you're talking about selling something out. Before that, you have peacefully replaced the supervisory councils with personnel coming strictly from SDS, perhaps from another coalition party, but usually from the most powerful party. What kind of policy is that? What policy is it when you recruit people just to fulfill the party's interest? Where is the interest after economic growth? What's the interest that the OECD is after all? You're laughing because the OECD doesn't care, because once you sell out state property, the OECD will no longer deal with it. Who else would deal with Slovenia, which has such a policy that has such a coalition that sells out the most precious assets without shame? I will not support this amendment. And if there is any judgment, support the amendment of the Social Democrats to stop the nonsense that is happening in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u331	Mr. Lucky Meh? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Matevž Frangež, then Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u332	The Article of the Law on the implementation of the budget is harmful. It may cause us to actually systematically incorporate the need for privatisation on both sides. First, by committing a capital company to cover the difference between income and expenditure to offset the financial plan of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance up to EUR 120 million per year. On the other hand, we will recover these funds from the sale of state property. If Kad wants to make this happen, he will have to sell his investments in the best quality Slovenian companies: Krka, Petrol, Gorenje, Hit and others. On the other hand, the State will sell state assets to repay debt to Kad, which in the meantime will become insolvent and will exhaust its capital base, in order to repay the debt to the capital company. Excuse me, you installed a systemic emergency in two places after the privatisation of state property. That's not necessary. Once again, I urge you to reconsider the amendment of the Social Democrats to delete this harmful article. Here I address the most representatives of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Why? Because about a month or two ago they cashed in an important victory to maintain the capital company as a single company within the Slovenian state holding company. Now, with the adoption of the Budget Implementation Act, if our amendment is not adopted, they will cause the capital company to be emptied. It is important to talk about why the capital company was created. The capital company was created in the context of the property transformation of companies in order to maintain part of the former social property as a permanent asset base for the financing of the pension fund. Let's not ruin this in one, in two years. So much for the debate. By the way, Franz Kangler announced that he would resign tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u333	Good news. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u334	Thank you, President. Now I ask the Members and Members for a little attention, even for some viewer and viewer, if they look, it is good to hear this information, that they hear how much water your words hold, what it will be like, if it is foreign, beautiful, happy, and at all, happiness will be present everywhere. Krka and Lek in 2002; Krka 360 million euro annual realization, Lek approximately the same. In 2002; Krka 46 million Euros of net profit, Lek 55 million. Dear Members and Members, who are in love with privatisation and the big words of foreigners you so like to listen to, what is 2011? Krka is approaching billions of euros in annual realization, Lek is almost half behind, 645 million. Krka in 2011; after the profit that comes from that percentage that you would like to reduce and already have, in the state budget 150 million euros. Lek; a privatised, large foreign company, the world is probably an example of a minister who is no longer – there is – and to all others, 73 million euros in profits. This is your great success in privatisation, which you continue to force through your liberal agenda through this law, and you will harm Slovenia and Slovenia. Do not stay with the Flossules, honourable Members, read the calculations and use the numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u335	If there is no further wish to discuss, I shall put to the debate Article 64 and the amendments to this Article. This is the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors, the Positive Slovenia and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. There's still a desire to discuss it. . Mr. Weber and the mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u336	Article 64 refers to sanctions for offences and we are talking about a fine of EUR 2 000 500, which punishes the responsible person of the direct or indirect user of the budget of the State or the municipality. Homely speaking, schools, kindergartens, and similar institutions will be punished if they do not respect what the State will assign them, if they do not respect how much the congregation will give them. However, no one wonders whether an individual public agency will be able to carry out the tasks for which it is established by the State or by the congregation. No one wonders how many teachers you have to have in order to be able to run a program in kindergarten, no one wonders how many teachers you have to have to run a program in school and so on. If the person responsible for running this institution, these institutions, will want to avoid penalties because the state has given him less resources without considering what this means – and in a similar effort by the congregation – will be forced to forgive people or drastically reduce their salaries in order to meet this, forgive the term, the rude condition of a government that is uncritically reducing resources without asking what it means for those who are performing the tasks for which we have established by law to provide the public services that we urgently need, from those of the youngest to the oldest when we speak of the homes of older citizens. Such a way of functioning of the Government, which simply reduces funds and says that now, if you do not respect this, the director or director will have to pay the penalty, is totally unacceptable policy if the goods are expressed and really does not contribute to making things right in Slovenia. It will lead to the collapse of the public sector. And then the idea will come that because the public sector does not work, we have to privatise it, and again it will be the same image. We will privatise the public sector and then again from the state budget we will provide money so that the private community can live in order to provide public needs. Again, we do not support and propose with our amendment that this article be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u337	Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u338	Thank you, President. You made a lustration law with this article. Those of you who have ever worked in real life know what you do if you have institutions that have 80 or 85% of the cost of work and you take away 8, 10 or 12% of what you transfer to them, without allowing them by law to reduce wages in a way that is covered by law. You will force some institutions not to matter at all, whether they perform less important, medium-sized or important tasks for the country. You will force them to reduce the rapid and terrible number of employees. However, since this is also followed by severance payments, you know in advance that it is impossible to do business positively. You've opened a public service front with a very clear purpose, and you're partying with the staff, so that's exactly what you're doing -- why do people say, when they're demonstrating, banish the maggots? - which people don't want. You will open the door wide to your client colleagues and colleagues to occupy the jobs that are important to this country. You opened the chandelier, because this law leads exactly this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u339	Mr. Darko Jazbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u340	Thank you so much for saying that. We also agree in Positive Slovenia that paragraphs 64 and 65 should be deleted, and I will explain this anomaly in the field of health. We all know that hospitals have been lost, and about 26 million have been produced this year. There's still a cumulative loss of about 81 million, and if we go to health homes that haven't been lost so far, this year is one third, we can see the trend where this is going. But how much money is in the health register, that's how we all know. There is no more room for manoeuvres, directors have no tools, ZUJF can't work flexibly, have fixed contracts to the Health Insurance Office and are tied to salaries in the public sector. So, no autonomy of decision-making. Such an article makes no sense to public institutions in itself, and virtually no one agrees with it, as much as we discussed in the debate before, the Minister of Health said in various interviews that he disagreed – I do not know how this was coordinated with the Government. Given that 10% of hospitals have already been taken in the last three years and 3% in the next year, it is not possible to operate without loss in theory. It's a systemic problem, and it's a little strange that the law would punish one director because it's not a problem in the office, but it's a systemic problem. Unless you want to have it in one marriage, I'll say just in case you want to make a trade. But then it's a matter of the rule of law. The director of all health care institutions said on this subject: "If they adopt a law which provides that the director will be able to be released and punished with a fine, the patient is seriously ill-written. The director who wants to save the hospital's losses will only be able to do so at the expense of the patients." With these two articles, you can practically legislate the crisis ban, which is really a little funny or unacceptable. This is a matter of the rule of law, conflict with many other laws. Dr. Pirnat said it was unconstitutional. It is also strange that health establishments are not financed from the budget, but from the health treasury, but still this article of the law tanges them if they remain in it. After all, the Director would be suspended for a false reason, i.e. without any judicial proceedings. In this case, the government is placing itself in the position of judge, prosecutor and executioner, all three in one. This is true also from a legal point of view, if we have talked about these laws in this way, unacceptable. In Positive Slovenia we propose that these two articles be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u341	Thank you. And Mr. Jerko Chehovin, then Mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u342	Thank you. I have to say that I don't even know why we've been spending all day here today because we have this law, which is essentially some blank currency to the government and we don't have to deal with amendments, budgets and so on. In any case, there are also possibilities of redistribution up to one third from the position to the opposition. The law is full of some covers that do not fall under the Budget Implementation Act at all, and from some strange solutions regarding the amount of RTV contribution to this famous 64th article, which I must say, forgive the expression, the babies, but only at first sight. In fact, it means transfer, transfer of responsibilities and, above all, the upheaval from the level of the National Assembly to ever lower levels. He's going to argue with the employees, the administrations, the sacred institutions and everything else, so they're going to figure out who's got the skills, who's responsible for what, who's responsible for what, who's done something. As a result, of course, the work in the courts will be increased, as the courts will receive additional work on the basis of these Quirolan articles and we will re-supply the courts with this. I think everyone understands a little bit about what's going on. It is easy to prepare for the takeover of institutions, as the privatisation of the economy is ending and the next target will be institutions. First, those institutions that are financially well-standing and some medical establishments, especially smaller hospitals and so on. But in order for this to happen, we need to first show how all the leadership we have so far, from the worlds of institutions to the administrations of these institutions, is incompetent and unable to implement the provisions that we place with the so-called ZUJF-2 to the lower levels. I don't think this provision is worthy of a state governed by law. If we have sacred institutions, if we have a law on institutions, all these people have certain competences, and if someone doesn't work properly, then there are other levers to resolve this matter. And that way, we'll just prove how we're going to penalize them for that. You might say we're down three-quarters. Just bartering from 10,000 to 2 thousand 500 is causing some discomfort. And I really don't see any legal, economic or, above all, the social role of such legislation. Unless what has already been said is indeed being prepared, the ground for the installation of the remaining political supporters who support this coalition. I don't see any other logic. That is why I will vote against this law myself. However, I think it would be appropriate to withdraw such an article because it does not really fall under the Law on the Implementation of the Budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u343	Mag. Katarina Hotchevar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u344	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello again! I myself will support the amendment of the coalition to Article 64, and I do not see it as a prosecution of public servants, but rather as a measure of responsibility by this Article. Also in public administration, we need to slowly adopt certain criteria, criteria and awareness that we are dealing with public money and that this so-called fine allows a certain degree of responsibility for those paid with public money, that is to say with the money of all citizens. Some of my predecessors you said. that it is not possible to operate without loss. That is why we have a problem in the public sector because there is too much of this thought. In the past, we have worked too hard in the way that budget funding has encouraged us to spend, because we know well that if we have not spent on items, then the second year of funding has been taken away in some way. When we talk about nothing being able to – I say that it is not necessary and necessary for us to be intimidated by a great deal of forgiveness in the public sector. Here we have a number of institutions available, from rationalisation of business to integration of services, especially those who care about logistics and so-called parallel activities, we can reach out to non-payment of work performance, we can limit the payment of overtime, we can be more rational in determining permanent readiness, and we can also make substitution – if the senior counsellor goes on maternity, it is not necessary to replace the same job, but we can redistribute the work and hire the apprentice and thus allow young people to start a career. You can do anything if you want. I will support the coalition's amendment to Article 64 myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u345	Mr. Joseph Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u346	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I like that: everything can be done if it wants to. Looks like he doesn't want to listen to us. I've worked in public institutions for 33 years, I've met people, and I have to tell you that maybe I've been lucky enough to work with responsible people, that they didn't have to be intimidated, that we're going to punish them, that we're going to give them these and other fines, that they're going to do what's right, that they're going to do what's best for children, that they're not going to steal, that they're not going to lie, that they're not going to raise clientism, and so on. Look at what you're trying to do in Articles 64 and 65, it's nothing but intimidation, discipline and somehow putting people in line. Just what you know. When we enthroned the Prime Minister of the government, I said that what Janek learned was John's knowledge, and that's exactly what you're doing. You're doing exactly what he does and you're intimidating and disciplining people. I tell you that this is not good, especially in the light of what we want or what you want to do with public institutions. As I said, in public institutions, we're talking about school, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u347	I'd like some peace and concentration if you could listen to your colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u348	I understand that. We've been here 14 hours. We have been here for 14 hours, and I am sure that the coalition is already determined how it will vote on what it will do, and today we are speaking mainly to empty our soul a little. It's nothing more than telling us what lies on our soul, because the coalition has already decided, at 9 a.m., she already knew how she's going to vote and how she's going to deny everything we're going to tell us today, so my colleagues aren't bothering me. In the area of education, 90% of school funds come from the state budget, and this is about wages. 10% of the money they have for maintenance is for fixed material costs, and they get it from the congregations. Maybe it's 2, 3% up or down, something else comes at the expense of the diet. We're talking about this money. And if the state fails to pay or grant, if the municipality fails to grant, if it reduces the grant, then there is a public institution in crisis, then the director, the director of the institution, and so on. Here you can manipulate, here you can do anything. If the congregation or the mayor wants to get rid of any principal, that month, two, three months will not be granted a grant. If the Ministry wants something different, it will, and the principal will be in trouble, and that's the principal who won't be obedient. If he is too creative, he can also be properly sanctioned. I therefore suggest that you do not support this Article and support the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u349	Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u350	Thank you. I support the deletion of both articles. I would like to point out that, in Article 65, the chairman of the indirect user of the budget would be dismissed for a false reason. It's very simple, isn't it? Those who depend on the budget as you say must be responsible, but if this is at state level, it is a bit of a debt. However, the direct budgetary user, his chairman, is not responsible and is not guilty. You know, that's a little too easy to take to school if you want. Not even in school can anything be done if you want to, not in the theater, not in the health department. There are standards, there are norms, there are rules and doctrines of the profession to be carried out, and there can only be a qualified person in the classroom who can do the work. Because of regulations like this, we're going to lose them. At that – please! – we combine institutions, and we don't even know what the costs will be. We're going to spend it on material costs because we're going to have to change the heads of letters. The State Secretary says that bringing together three schools in Maribor for students will bring great advantages because they will receive a large library, but she does not know that these schools are in three different locations. Where's that joint library going to be? He's going to Kranj because that's what they made up. When we abolish some institutions, we re-establish some, we establish them by law. I'm sorry, it's just like something comes along, just like you think it has to be. We're setting up a probation council, and we don't even have that specific. There are no professional grounds for implementation, so please, a little less such an easy approach to things. This is what people are trying to explain to us that some things we do out of enthusiasm, that we don't have any real analysis at the back, we don't know where the measures are going to take us. Let's hear it! Everything looks really good from here because I'm not cold and I'm not hungry. But not everyone's lucky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u351	Mr. Darko Jazbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u352	This debate, however, has given me much comfort today. I must say that the Director of the Health Insurance Service of Slovenia does not know how to get out of this financial crisis, including Minister Gantar has full concerns and does not have the right solutions, and Mrs Katarina Hočevar knows this. So what I have heard today is a great deal of joy and comfort, and I would suggest that it is an adviser to the Ministry of Health, because there is an urgent need for it there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u353	We said we wouldn't be cynical and like each other. Who wants to discuss Article 65 and the amendments to Article 65? At paragraph 67, I must inform you that, in the context of this study of the compliance of the amendments with the Rules of Procedure, the Legislative and Legal Service has warned me that the amendment to this Article is not admissible because it is an amendment article that has not been opened on the home working body. I will also get this in writing, so I am not even putting this article to the debate. Procedurally, Mr Tanko, but I won't let myself be convinced because it's a reliable matter. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate. Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u354	Thank you so much for saying that. It is true that you said that the article in the proceedings was not amended. However, the second paragraph of Article 132 permits this amendment. And this amendment shall be tabled exactly in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 132 and precisely to the provisions where this is permitted. The case is filed correctly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u355	You know it's not. Article 132 refers to the novelties of laws, and this is not a novel, but an entire law. So I'm not putting this up for debate. Mr. Lucky Meh, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u356	Mr. Tanko, congratulations! So after 14 hours, you invented the perpetuum cell phone. Just before that, you asked the Legal and Legal Service to say whether it was in accordance with the law or not. And now you're not comfortable with what the Legal and Legal Service has done. I suggest you step down as Head of the Parliamentary Group and go to the Head of the Legislative and Legal Service, because you will do such an excellent job.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u357	I'm closing the debate. Given that a number of interests have been expressed in several parliamentary groups [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] If I understand correctly, are both the opposition's members opposed to voting today? Okay, well, then I won't even make a dedication. Given that we had very clearly written in the time book that we will conclude today at 23 p.m., we will conclude. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u358	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I propose that you put to the vote a procedural proposal to vote on all the proposals that we have considered under the budget and the Law on the Implementation of the Budget be carried out today immediately after the conclusion of the debate. Please put this to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-05-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u359	Look, it's up to the chairman. I am very sorry, I would like to vote today and finish my vote myself, but since we had a clear deadline to conclude at 23 p.m. and it is clearly written that the vote will be tomorrow, and if there is no consensus for a different solution, I am adjourning and continuing tomorrow at 9 a.m. with the vote.
