ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 13th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Mr Matjaž Han from 3 p.m. on and Mr Roberto Battelli. The President of the Government and Minister of Finance are invited to the meeting on agenda item 2 and representatives of the Government are invited to all agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're looking at the budget package. This week is probably one of the toughest in Slovenian parliamentary history, so I thank all of you, Members and Members, for the work done through the days and nights, especially all of your colleagues and colleagues in the services of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 13th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Tuesday 8 May 2012, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for an extension of the agenda, so I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda for today's meeting be set, as you have received with reference. We will decide on the agenda, so please check the operation of the voting devices. We're voting on the agenda. There are 69 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 5. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the agenda for the 13th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item, this is the 2012 development report. The Government sent that report to the National Assembly pursuant to Article 239 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 239, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure, I sent it to you for a briefing on 20 April 2012. There is no debate or decision on this agenda item; the government just presents the report. I give the word mags to explain the report. Mr Boštjan Vaslet, Director of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development. Here you go, mag. Vasle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u2	Dear Members and honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the Government, welcome! We have also prepared a structural review of developments in the economic, social and sustainable field at the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis this year, and I will continue to present you with key findings on the most important macroeconomic developments in Slovenia. A key conclusion of our analysis in the field of economic development is that the development of Slovenia, which we have witnessed in the last 15 years, has ceased during the period of crisis. In 2008, 2009 we came close to the average development of the euro area at all of the 9% points, and at the time of the crisis we began to distance ourselves and the latest data show that we are on average falling behind about 15%. In other words, we have returned to the situation we recorded somewhere between 2003 and 2004. What are the reasons for this developmental setback? It's basically two groups of factors. On the one hand, Slovenia still retains relatively good results with regard to the employment rate, and on the other hand, we have great problems with productivity. On average, only 60% of the average productivity of the European Union is achieved throughout the economy, and at this point in Slovenia there is not a single economic sector that achieves the average of this productivity, much less to get close to those countries that are the best, outliers and with whom we want to compare. What are the key reasons for this lack of productivity? If I just count the most important. It is the fact that, at this point in Slovenia, we still have a very low share of industry in the structure of the economy, which can be described as technologically difficult, medium and highly demanding, that we also have low productivity in the high-tech sector segment. While we have a relatively satisfactory level of investment in research and development, we do not benefit very well from these funds. If I give you only one comparison, Slovenia registers about 60 patents per million inhabitants. The European Union averages 120 patents per million inhabitants. The next thing that threatens our potential to increase productivity is inefficiency in the education system, especially in tertiary education. The surveys conducted throughout the European Union show that the proportion of employers not satisfied with the skills of graduates in Slovenia is extremely high. There is virtually only one country across the European Union where this share is higher, with 18% of all employers with the skills of graduates dissatisfied in Slovenia, with an average of 8%. In the most successful countries, for example Germany, Denmark, Norway, this share is only 3%. The next thing that threatens our productivity is the rise in real labour costs. Due to measures taken in the past, both to raise the minimum wage and to pay the prizes in the economy even after the economic results have already deteriorated, it has led to an increase of more than 6% in labour per unit of product in Slovenia at the moment, while on average the European Union is increasing by only 1%. This comparison therefore shows a six-fold deterioration in Slovenia's position, as on average in the European Union. In addition, in Slovenia we are still witnessing the country's high role in the economy and also in the economy, which is, of course, linked to the inefficient management of businesses. In addition to these problems, which hinder our ability to raise productivity, we also have problems with financing the country and businesses. In recent years, the budget deficit has increased significantly. As you can see from this chart before you, we have practically covered structural deficits over the last 15 years, that is, the deficit created by economic policies, by covering up the positive economic results before 2008 and the actual deficit was small or we even had a balanced budget in 2007, and after the outbreak of the crisis the public financial situation deteriorated greatly, and this has led to difficult access to funding sources for Slovenia. At the moment, the Republic of Slovenia is practically very difficult to commit to international markets. If we look at what happened in the past when we had economic growth, which was somewhere between four and five percent, Slovenia was in debt at a lower interest rate, the interest rate was less than 5%, now that we are witnessing a decline in economic activity, or when we expect it to be actively reduced by about 1% this year, our debt price is slightly more than 5%, which is of course an unsustainable situation in this macroeconomic aspect. As a result, this situation in the area of country debt is also transferred to the banking sector, our banks are therefore more difficult to borrow in international markets, and this difficult access to funding resources is an important factor in why they have a larger decline in economic activity in Slovenia than other members of the euro area or why we expect even worse economic results. If we add to all these factors that inhibit our growth, low foreign investment, which, on the one hand, impede the transfer of knowledge to Slovenia and, on the other hand, hinder the transfer of new resources to Slovenia, then we can find that Slovenia has lost its market share in international markets in recent years. The comparison shows that at this point we are following the latest data where we were about 10 years ago, this is in 2010, 2011. Our market share increased gradually before the crisis by 2008 and began to decline during the crisis, meaning, in other words, that our competitors, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, that is, the countries with which we compete in international markets, are slowly moving away from these markets, that is, distance from the economic objective. If I continue with social development or with the achievements that we record in the labour market and in social systems, then there has also been a shift to the objectives set or to a major deterioration in the situation during the crisis. This is where we record results that we have not been used to in the past 10, 15 years. Slovenia has gradually approached the European Union in recent years. Gradually, material living conditions and the well - being of the population improved. However, this crisis is a development which has also disrupted this process in the social field. First, I would like to start with the worsening situation in the labour market. We all know that unemployment has increased significantly during the crisis, that employment has decreased, but with these poor data, labour market structures have also deteriorated. Here I would only mention that, for example, the work activity of older people has increased significantly, from 31% two years ago to as much as 35%, to double the long-term unemployment rate, for example, in 2009 it was 1.7%, with the latest figures of 3.5%, and there was also a strong segregation in the labour market. We have two problems. When we look at what is happening to youth employment, then Slovenia, in international comparisons, is back on track, unfortunately in a negative sense. In Slovenia we have practically the largest share of temporary employment among young people. If we look at this age segment between 15 and 24 years old, in Slovenia, about 80% of this population has fixed-term employment, so it has short-term contracts, while on average the European Union has half the figure, is only 40%, and in those countries that are the most successful, it has only 10% of the young contracts for a certain period, i.e. the problem on the young side. On the other hand, we also have a problem with the older population. If we look at the work activity of those between the ages of 55 and 64, only 30% of the population is active in Slovenia, while the average in the EU is 50%. In those countries that are most successful, however, it reaches 60%. When we add all this together, we find that we have a relatively short period in Slovenia when we are working. Compared with the OECD countries, this period is practically the shortest, and of course it has consequences both for the satisfaction and well-being of the population and for public finances. When we sum up all these factors, then we find that in recent years the real available income, that is, the income that we have in Slovenia has begun to fall in real terms. Over the past 10 years and from 2000 to 2008, each year has been realistic, so if we clean up inflation, it has increased somewhere between 2.5% and 3%, and the crisis has led to a reversal of this trend, leading to a shift in this trend. Over the last three years, in 2009, 2010, 2011, this available income decreased by 3.4%. We at Umar estimate that this year will also see a reduction. And when we add up all these four years, we're going to figure out that real disposable income has gone down by 5%. If we add about 8% of the inflation that was in this period, then we now have nominally as much as 13% less resources for our consumption. The second problem I would like to mention in the social field is population ageing. Virtually all countries in the European Union are faced with the fact that their population is old, but all countries are not in the same position. If we compare ourselves with the other countries of the European Union, then we find that this problem of ageing in Slovenia is among the most pronounced. If we look at what demographic projections show next year, then we can see that important changes will take place in Slovenia in the next 15 or 20 years. The share of the active population, i.e. in the age group between 15 and 64, will decrease by between 10% and 15% in this period, i.e. fewer people will be employed, fewer people will be active and, on the other hand, the proportion of older people will increase, over 60 by about one half and over 80 years will increase in the next decades almost four times. This will, of course, lead to additional pressure on public finances. Here on this graph, if you look at it, you can see that expenditure related to social systems, the background of which is also population ageing, will increase by more than 1.5 percentage points over 15 to 20 years. This may not seem to be much at first sight, but if we think that Slovenia has spent only slightly more than 1.1% of its research and development resources in Slovenia over the past years, then this figure is placed in a completely different context and it is clear that it is a very big change. In this social field, however, we also have some indicators showing a favourable picture in Slovenia. Above all, the quality of life indicators tend to remain favourable or even improve. We still have a low risk of poverty in Slovenia, and material deprivation is relatively low when compared with other European Union countries. We maintain favourable accessibility to public services and some indicators, which have traditionally been beneficial in Slovenia, such as the low rate of infant mortality and the long-awaited life expectancy, are maintained at these relatively high levels. If I summarize this event briefly, these changes that have occurred in recent years in Slovenia, then we can find that in many indicators or in many indicators at this point where Slovenia was already in 2005, sometimes even in 2004, and in some cases we have returned to the situation that we have already achieved in 2002, which means, in other words, that international comparisons of Slovenia, in particular with other European countries, show that in many cases we are on the tail of these comparisons. This means that the years since or after the outbreak of the crisis have been lost from a development perspective for Slovenia. What happened? Slovenia had a potential for economic growth sometime between 3.5 and 4% before the crisis. This means that we were able to achieve an average of 3.5% economic growth without creating greater imbalances in the Slovenian economic system, i.e. without excessive indebtedness, without excessive external trade surpluses, without excessive inflation. After the outbreak of the crisis, this potential has declined significantly, more than halved, and at this point in the Office we estimate that Slovenia is able to achieve economic growth of less than 1% in the coming years. Our forecast for this year even speaks of economic activity shrinking by about 0.9% this year. Finally, I would like to make a few words of recommendations or areas that we believe should be addressed if we are to avoid or get out of this trap of low or even negative economic growth. I'm sure there's public finances first. At the moment, in Slovenia, the level of expenditure is such that the economy cannot finance it without borrowing abroad. However, since this debt abroad for Slovenia is now severely hampered by the fact that the indicative yields on our bonds are such that we cannot afford them from a macroeconomic point of view, this suggests the necessity of fiscal consolidation. It is necessary to take measures to rationalise the current expenditure, to rewind individual expenditure groups, but that will not be enough. If we have in mind the demographic picture of the Slovenian population, if we have in mind the expected pressures that ageing will have on public finances, then in the medium term public finances cannot be balanced without updating social protection systems. This is where the pension system comes first, and then the health system and the long-term care system. These changes in social systems are not only necessary to balance public finances, but also to allow those generations who will retire in the coming years at least the same standard or at least the same conditions as those of generations or people who have retired in the past. So public finances are first, followed by the modernisation of social protection systems and the third major area that we will have to address in Slovenia to restore economic growth is the area of competitiveness. Slovenia is a small country and if we compare our exports with gross domestic product, this comparison is 70 %. Slovenia is crucially dependent on how we manage to position ourselves in foreign markets, how we can get into foreign markets and then stay in foreign markets. And if we want to achieve this in order to reverse this negative trend when our market share is declining, then the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy will need to be increased. And one last thing. The great problems in the labour market and these structural problems show that our labour market is very rigid, that we have problems with the transition from unemployment to employment, that then this group of people who are employed is very protected, which is therefore causing problems in business decisions. I therefore think that, after all, some attention should also be paid to greater flexibility in the labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u3	Thanks, mag. Vasle, to present the report. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012. The proposal for a budget rebalancing was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, to present the proposal for the 2012 budget rebalancing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members, distinguished citizens and citizens! The National Assembly is today and tomorrow before one of the most important decisions in its history. The step we are taking today has been promised by the previous government to our European partners already in 2010, and we are the last in the European Union to try to take this step. However, we are working this step primarily because of ourselves and because of our own future. This step is not simple, it has not been anywhere, nor has it been with us. Slovenia is particularly concerned with this step also with a psychological problem and a problem – Slovenia has progressed since independence. From 1991 to 2008, we were ahead of average developments in the European Union. Slovenia came from a poor 45% of the European environment's average development to 91% in 2008. We almost captured Italy in 18 years, which was for half the developmental step ahead of us at the beginning of our independent life. In 2008, we were more affected by the crisis than others. And since 2008 Slovenia has not been catching the European average, but has been lagging behind. According to the latest data, we have fallen by more than 5 percentage points, destroying the advantage we had before all the new Member States of the European Union at the beginning of this crisis. Despite the fact that the crisis has affected us, despite the fact that we have lost 60,000 jobs at home at that time, so many fewer of our citizens today have been working in the Slovenian economy after three and a half years, despite the fact that some 60,000 foreign citizens are working in Slovenia today than at the beginning of the crisis, and despite the severe shock that the economy has experienced in this crisis, that more than 12,000 businesses and entrepreneurs have lost their jobs at that time, the majority of the consequences of this crisis on the standard, on the public sector, on the scale of public sector services in Slovenia have been mitigated by debt over the past three years. Thus, if we can say that by 2008 we had been about the same in Slovenia as possible, receiving growth in prosperity, that Slovenia had progressed, that wages had gone up, that pensions had gone up, that the standard had increased, that employment had also increased, that more and more people could be educated and so on, and since 2008 this picture has been shared. On the one hand, the effects of the crisis, which were very familiar in the economy, the tens of thousands of unemployed people who felt this crisis most and their families, their family, all those who depended on them, which, of course, increased the pressure on social transfers, depending on the guaranteed or guaranteed rights, and on the other hand the public sector, which had not adapted or adapted to the shock or impact of the crisis at that time. As you know, in 2010, there was a consensus that the public sector's wages did not increase so much, so partial elimination of wage imbalances was frozen. But wages, unlike the economy, in the public sector remained at a real pre-crisis level or even increased. At a time when we lost nearly 120,000 new jobs in the economy, almost 10,000 people were employed in the public sector. Part of these jobs were justified because they were real needs and were part of the public sector. However, some of these jobs were not justified during the crisis. This led to scissors, which were mentioned earlier by the Director of the Government's Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development. When we talk about the psychological problem, we also talk about the problems that arise whenever, for the first time in history, some measures need to be coordinated, when indices do not increase, when numbers in the budget or in the balance do not increase, when expectations need to be limited, and when certain things need to be reduced. In fact, the majority of the generation facing these coordinations, negotiation and intervention does not even have this experience. And despite the fact that there is still a lot of memory about inflationary times in the former country and problems at that time, it is human nature to forget such things quickly, to remember more beautiful things, and in some ways then high expectations and memories of times when things went up, always prevail. So, apart from the public finances, it is also a psychological problem and we are facing it today. The adoption of the budget rebalancing for this year, which will soon be half past, is only a first step, one of the three urgent steps for Slovenia to emerge from the crisis, to re-enter the path of sustainable growth and prosperity. The balance of the budget that you have before you is essentially a measure of consolidation – of course with all the accompanying acts – of Slovenian public finances. That's the first step. The second step is regaining economic growth and the third step is new employment or new jobs in the economy. All these three steps are connected. This isn't about whether or not, it's not about three choices, it's about the three items we have on the table, and now we're going to take the one we love. This is a structural link between all these measures and these are also the consequences. And it's not a theory, it's also a practice that we can follow in a number of other European countries, we can compare these steps, we can compare the effects of these steps, and we can see where the countries that have taken this seriously, and where the countries where people have pressed or those who should make decisions have pushed their heads into the sand. Without consolidation of public finances in the context of a modern economy and a single European market to which Slovenia belongs, it is not possible to relaunch sustainable economic growth. And without economic growth it is not possible to expect new jobs in the economy. Until there are new jobs, it is not possible to strengthen the social function of the country, as real growth in prosperity can only be financed by real economic growth or by increasing what we create. When we talk about consolidation of public finances, the reduction of the budget deficit is one of the main objectives of this budget rebalancing, a key measure. Slovenia has reached almost or more than 6% of the budget deficit in the last three years on average. Our partners, who are bound by the Stability and Growth Pact as well as other rules in the euro area, because Slovenia is not only a member of the European Union, are also a member of the European Monetary Union, and these rules now set significantly different borders. When it comes to budget deficits, not only did we exceed the three per cent limit of the current Stability and Growth Pact for a few percent, but we exceeded it by 100 per cent points, for three years, at the same time greatly increased our debt, which was the second smallest in the euro area at the beginning of the crisis. Over the last three years, we have had the highest increase in indebtedness in the European Union. Without a reduction of the budget deficit, there is no consolidation of public finances. Here we are not just talking about measures to reduce spending on the expenditure side of the budget, we are talking about a comprehensive set, because only here is the solution. And also in this law to balance public finances, which you will deal with under the next item, there are measures on both sides. However, once again, we are talking about the 2012 budget rebalancing and we are accepting it for the 5th month, the year is 12 months, we are accepting it for the 5th month of the year. He'll be established if there's no complications in the middle of the year. And this fact only speaks of the fact that we are substantially limited in reducing the budget deficit by measures on the revenue side of the budget, because it is mainly measures that cannot be implemented overnight, which are largely possible to apply at the beginning of the following year. Most of this debate is coming soon, in a few months, when you will have to consider the draft budgets for the next two years. If anyone is concerned that the focus is mainly on the revenue side of the budget, he will be greatly comforted this year because many of these measures will still be on the table. I hope so. When it comes to borrowing, Slovenia has reached its limits. The criteria of the European Stability and Growth Pact, however, set a debt limit to which there is no penalty and which is acceptable to 60% of GDP. We're some bad 10% points today, below this limit, but we'll reach it before we even the budget. All these measures, which are ahead of us, do not address the deficit, they only reduce it, and we still need the debt to be around the normal functioning. We have received a number of comments on these budget documents with an argument or demand that consumption be increased and with an argument that we can still be indebted because we are not yet so in charge. We're on the cutting edge if we want to get out of this situation without major shocks. If we were already at 60% today, the debt should be stopped immediately and then it would actually be drastic measures. Besides, he's in debt, he's in debt, he's in debt, he's in interest. You are more in debt and poorer structural expectations are in public finances to move forward, it is more expensive to continue to be in debt. Of course, these things are connected. One of the approaches to the preparation of the budget rebalancing and accompanying acts is the government's desire to distribute these burdens fairly. This is your aim between a few dozen proposals or measures, proposals for crisis benefits and crisis taxes, which concern the more tangible parts of Slovenian society. We establish a safety net or censorship in measures so that reductions do not affect those living on a minimum wage, with a lower pension, etc. This is a very sensitive social approach, which we have not seen in any other European country where such measures have been taken, and we have examined practically everything. In this debate, also due to the simultaneous process of the Constitutional Commission, additional debate and integration with the budgetary debate on the golden fiscal rule were opened. As far as the golden fiscal rule is concerned, or the goal of balancing our budget so that we can spend as much as we create or gather in it in the future, this objective was promised to our partners in the common monetary union and the European Union as early as 2010. It's not something this government invented. The negotiations on the fiscal pact have also been concluded before the beginning of this mandate, and you have in fact unanimously ratified the fiscal pact, which requires us to introduce the golden fiscal rule into the internal legal order already last month. This golden fiscal rule is primarily the protection of Slovenian taxpayers from adventurous moves either by the domestic executive authorities or from the conduct of other countries with which we share the same currency. So all these debates that appear about whether this is even necessary and so on, or not for the benefit of the rich and so on, are completely depressed. If anything, then at a time when the European Union is faced with irresponsible behaviour in some Member States, and these irresponsible behaviours are also paid by our taxpayers, our interest is that this is no longer the case. And there is no Slovenian citizen who would be pleased that he must also guarantee Greek debts. By introducing this golden fiscal rule, we are introducing rules of the game, which, of course, will also be sanctioned, which will make it impossible to spend or live at the expense of others in the European family. Against the golden fiscal rule, there can only be someone who doesn't understand what's going on or someone who has some interests. In any event, the golden rule is primarily the protection of taxpayers, the ordinary taxpayer, who is protected by this rule from excessive risks, while at the same time the golden rule is also the protection of future generations, so that even in some way a irresponsible generation does not owe them a more critical time. For this reason, I will say, all honour to the Constitutional Commission, which resumed the procedure yesterday, and I hope that the change of the constitutional article that introduces this golden fiscal rule will soon be in the Slovenian Constitution that this is a huge step that the Slovenian National Assembly will take at this time and will also be a strong signal outside that directly influences the improvement of our international financial position. If anyone hoped that the policy in the European Union would temporarily change, that this was no longer the case after these Sunday elections in Greece and France, of course he made a serious mistake. Just because there's no other way. There's no other way. The fiscal pact will enter into force in a relatively short period of time, the ratification of 12 countries is sufficient and we are already halfway there. And there will be no new negotiation. This is also the position of the European Commission. Yesterday you could also hear a statement by President Schulz of the European Parliament, or socialist Schulz, who is in the same position as most other Member States, after these communications in the last days against any opening already agreed. But where would we have come if, after each election, we had changed what had already been agreed upon or signed in each country? And in some countries it's already ratified. In what position would you be placed as the legislative authority in this country that you have already ratified the fiscal pact, by consensus, in fact, if someone in Parliament now said, "Yes, but we had an election, don't hold what the previous government has signed, let's go to new negotiations." This would indeed be the desavation of democracy and the beginning of the collapse of the rules of the game, on which the European Union, as well as the European monetary union, are at all fundamental. If these elections in Greece do not lead to the formation of a pro-European government that will be able to keep its promise and stick to the agreement, then, of course, there will be new elections in Greece and these elections will also decide whether or not Greece wants to remain in the euro area. It is very likely that this will happen in June, since there is no high chance that these latest results will give such a government team. Greek voters will decide whether they want to remain in the euro area or not. I think we all need to make this message very clear to them. It is also important to know that most Greek debts are no longer on private commercial banks. For Greek debts you guarantee, taxpayers all over Europe guarantee, these are public funds and we have reached the limits when we can still risk them. Rather than any change in the rules of the game from what has been agreed, it is likely that the euro area, Greece's departure or those countries that are unable to comply with the rules of the game will be reduced. And from this, Slovenia must also draw its lesson. The interpretations that spread both across Europe and with us on how Greek voters punished those who proposed drastic austerity measures and reached an agreement with the European Union and the International Monetary Fund on austerity measures are only part of the truth. The Greek voters also punished those political elites who, through excessive spending and spending, brought the country into such a situation. Any other interpretation would be a great underestimation of the generation of voters, which at some fundamental level always exists. The parties most lost ruled decades ago, with an absolute majority, one, one, one, the other, sending the wrong data to the European Statistical Office and allowing what happened to happen to them by fraud. Speaking of consolidation of public finances as a prerequisite for new economic growth, we can talk about a structural link or a direct financial link; perhaps we should start by making this more understandable and very illustrative. You already have a huge number in this budget balance sheet, I think 750 million euros, or around here, that Slovenia will pay this year for interest on our debts. This number is significantly larger than it was in last year and is significantly larger than it was in the pre-Last year. If you compare this number with the so-called saved sum, which is the wrong label, but it is said so, then you see that everything we save by reducing wages, reducing travel costs and in all other areas, we will pay interest on the debts we have created. None of this, unfortunately, can go to investment. And if we continue this path, of course every year it will be more interest, because it is debt to pay, and it will be even less for anything else. We're on the edge now. Thus, the reduction in debt, the reduction of this pressure on the financing costs or the servicing of our debts is directly linked to the amount of resources available to us for investment, both public and in the economy. This is also linked in terms of duties and burdens and so on. And this connection needs to be seen. The creation of a more favourable environment for domestic and foreign entrepreneurs, the decommissioning of work, flexicurity is as important as tackling this pressure. Today, those European countries, Slovenia, are among them that have not done so, of course, are beating. Spain also has record unemployment in Europe because Spanish companies move their production to Slovakia, the Czech Republic and so on because of the rigid labour market. And they're in the same position as us, by having a bigger economy. For new economic growth, foreign investment, productive use of European funds, including more productive use of state capital investments, are essential. These are the steps that await us in the future. The burden of work, the reward of good work, innovation, this is the path to be taken in contrast with these proposals in order to further increase the balance sheet. There is no way out of the economic crisis in the balance sheet. Those who do more and better work, which is more innovative, must also be better rewarded. Not only in the economy, but also in the public sector. Therefore, in these negotiations with the public sector unions, the government has also proposed that wage imbalances, which are criminal to those who work better and create more, be eliminated. And we went into it, and I hope that this deal is finally signed. When we talk about what is important for economic growth, or when, not only in us, but also in general in the European area, this controversy is now taking place, whether it is savings or growth, it should be reiterated that this is an artificial dilemma, without consolidating public finances, to reduce the deficit in order to also ensure the strength of the common currency, there is no condition for sustainable growth. The fact that this dilemma is artificial also speaks of a number of documents that the European Union has drawn up in these times of crisis. The French elections did not bring debate on the need for economic growth. Last October, the European Commission presented a document detailing what measures should be taken, and it is already accepted that economic growth is being relaunched in Europe, but public financial consolidation is a prerequisite. Yesterday on Shuman's Day, or Europe's Day, the European Commission published a Communication entitled Time for Decision, Growth Action, Action for New Jobs, where it once again represents this link between the necessity of consolidating public finances in the European Union, especially in the euro area, and economic growth. These policies exist, Slovenia has co-formed them in their creation in recent years, and these agreements need to be adhered to, and they are also entirely logical decisions. As we speak of the third pillar or new employment in the economy, it is now clear that economic growth, the new investments alone can promote employment in the economy, is no other productive path. Here we have serious negotiations with the social partners, this second step in the preparation of a social agreement, where we will have to agree on this. It's not a disaster if someone loses a job, it's a disaster if you lose a job and don't get the same or better paid job right away in real time. And if, for a short time, when you are unemployed, there is no safety net, we have this safety net, the unemployment benefits in Slovenia are significantly lower than the minimum wage. Even now, these conditions are not getting worse. On the other hand, however, we have done nothing for flexibility. This is one of the main obstacles to new investment and also attracting foreign investment. Two days ago, I was shown a place where the previous German government, led by Chancellor Schroeder, was preparing the 2010 Agenda. This was at a time before the crisis when Germany had over 5 million, historically large numbers, unemployed. I must say that it went back to the times when unions and many others in Germany protested the introduction of the so-called flexible labour market. This market has been introduced. And today, despite the crisis in the developed world, Germany has a record low unemployment rate. Every morning, if you go after Presherno, probably a lot of MPs go by, you see species. Even this morning, there were over a hundred people lined up before the German consulate, where they were waiting for a work visa to work in Germany. These are people who used to work in Slovenia. It's important to ask why these species are there. One of the reasons is that we have not made the so-called labour market flexible enough and that remains for us if we do not want to share the fate of those on the path of destruction. The third extremely important thing mentioned earlier in Dr. Vaslet's performance is the restructuring of our school programs if you want to reform education. Every school in Slovenia also needs to analyse where its graduates are, how many of these people have received employment in their profession, how many are unemployed, how many have had to be trained. The vast majority of our educational institutions do not work or are not real. When we visit Slovenian companies today, at a time when we have more than 110 000 unemployed, we encounter examples of companies looking for workers, but there are no such profiles, they must be trained and so on. The huge gap is between the profiles produced by our educational system and what we need today and what we will need for the next ten years. The huge gap is between this production and what the European labour market will need in the next ten years. We have dozens of institutes that have calculated all this, who know that, who have got the money and are paid for it, but nothing has done to adapt to it. But it's going to have to be done. If I'm trying to narrow it down to support the budget rebalancing. The step we take is not simple, but necessary. We are the last in the European Union to do this. It's no easier way than what we do. There are many false prophets who invite on their hearts as mermaid sailors. But we know how such a journey ends. May our example be those who are successful, not those who avoid problems. We have both cases, we don't have to go far around the world to find them. And the smart ones imitate the good and the successful, not the ones that aren't. So it is no easier way, Slovenia has lived for three years in the belief that things will improve in themselves, that everything will be fine once Germany grows again. Germany is growing, and it has been accelerating for two years now, and things have not quite settled in themselves. We're in a recession again, and I think there must be an end to the utopian belief that even if we wanted to, we could not, and that someone else would pay our bills. Maybe some of the real bases for this utopia existed by the end of last year, and then came the sobering of 7% of the profit of our ten-year bond, which is a sign for all the alarm bells. I don't think there should be any utopian since then. Today we are taking the first step, before the next steps we will also have to take very difficult measures. As this first step continues with the preparation of the budget for the next two years, we are awaiting negotiations with the social partners for a new social agreement. Despite all the complications, efforts, misunderstandings, I think we are close to having the vast majority of the social partners in the Economic and Social Council finally sign the starting points for a new social agreement. Many have already done so. And there it is necessary to agree on concrete, real and even fair steps in all that needs to be done to ensure that Slovenia starts to grow again: in labour market reform, the pension system, health reform and, in particular, in adapting what we are financing from public money to real opportunities. We can be at least partially optimistic here, and the next few weeks will show how quickly we can make progress through a social agreement. The government would love it very much, and I could say that the government coalition would very much like the opposition to accept the partnership's proposed hand. We've been waiting about a month and a half for a single letter of answers to our offer. We have proposed both a substantive framework and a cooperation protocol. There has been no interest so far, nor has there been any comment. However, I must say that our doors are still open, today's decision-making is not over, it is only the first smaller step, and I hope that there will be different views on this side and that it will be possible to agree. On this occasion, I would also like to thank the social partners with whom we have negotiated over the past few weeks, first of all, for the fact that we have at least approximated the assessment of the situation in which Slovenia is and then for some of the first measures we are now taking. There is no perfect unity and it would also be illusory to expect it, but I think there are still many things that have been clarified, that we know where we are, that many things are also harmonised, some have also been signed, and that this is still a solid basis for us to move forward with the social agreement. I would also like to thank my colleagues in the government, who, in addition to all the hard work and additional work that falls on each government at the beginning of the mandate, have all gone very seriously to these talks and negotiations and to work night and day on how we have coordinated many things. All of them must also be thanked for their patience, which was one such good training for this crucial phase of the talks and negotiations under the Social Agreement. The hope dies last, and I still hope that the key steps can be coordinated, finally our future together depends on them, and that all this effort has not been in vain. I would also like to thank all those who have been in your mother's financial work during the last days, working night and day to make this important decision today. The government has no time for another month, Slovenia has no time for another month or two months to negotiate yet to prepare. As has already been said, we are adopting the budget documents for 2012, for a year that has already passed or will be half past, before they enter into force. And any further delay would be catastrophic. This waiting was three and a half years and another day would never come. As I say, I appeal to understanding of the procedure itself. It has simply not been possible, it would simply be a utopian expectation that in this real time we have available to do something else with the budget's rebalancing for this year, each of these few ten laws can be specifically put into the process and we can take it through all these complications that exist. It would take two to three years to do all this. I don't think that's in anybody's interest. This has also made your work, the real work of Members, much more difficult. It's complicated matter, there was some serious blood, but that's all understandable. Thank you for this effort that you have put forward for the procedure to come to this point, and I wish you as happy and wise a hand as possible. It's actually about our future together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u5	I thank the President of the Government for presenting the balance sheet, and I also give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Janez Šuštersič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u6	Your Honor! Allow me to present myself briefly some of the basic characteristics of the balance sheet and the accompanying measures in the Public Finance Balance Act, which in fact allows for the adoption of such a balance. We came from two key numbers when preparing the rebalancing. One is an income assessment, saying how much, in the main existing system, the burden the economy generates to finance public spending. This figure is around €8 billion, and we have come from the goal of reducing the deficit of the state budget to around €9 billion in gross domestic product or in the amount of €1 billion this year, which has also placed a ceiling of around €9 billion. This figure, €9 billion in expenditure, is more than a billion lower than that foreseen by the budget still in force today, and this figure, as regards the income assessment that is real this year, is more than half a billion lower than that to which it is calculated in the preparation of the balance that is still in force. One reason is the assessment that this year's gross domestic product will be about 4.5 billion lower than what was calculated at the time the budget was being prepared this year. In view of last year's realisation, we also anticipate less expenditure than was realised last year for a poor EUR 400 million. If we add to this all that has not been or is not to the same extent in last year's realisation, it is necessary this year, say higher interest costs, to come together that we had to reduce the actual expenditure by around €800 million by various measures compared to last year. These are the basic numbers. How did we do that? First of all, by starting serious processes, rationalising cost-effective behaviour. The government has adopted a number of conclusions, virtually every week in this area, we went through the budget together with the ministers and the minister, checked the programmes of various policies, investments, and tried everything that we did not feel absolutely necessary to adapt. However, it was not possible to achieve this objective alone, and we have also decided to amend all the legislation on which the expenditure of the state budget and public treasury are based. We've done this in several rounds of conversation. All these changes are now covered by the Public Finance Balance Act. As an important part of public expenditure is also expenditure on labour market policies, on family policy, on social policy, we also had to propose certain adjustments in the rules setting out these expenditure. Without this simple objective, we could not have achieved it. Similarly, by amending legislation or other regulations, we had to propose significant adjustments in the functioning of the public sector also in the area of payments for the work of those working in the public sector, or in compensation for other labour-related costs. That was an emergency, too. We also felt justified, given that in recent years the adjustment to the crisis has been significantly greater in the private sector than in the public sector. These measures, of course, are not simple. We are aware that they will affect a lot of people, and it was not easy to propose, nor simply to defend them. Even at a completely personal level, we have often had to look people in the eye and convince them that we actually believe that this is the only option we have in Slovenia today. Why must these steps of balancing public finances be hasty? Because data for previous years show that the deficit has not begun to decline in Slovenia in the last three years. However, we all know that this week the European Commission will also make its assessment of whether Slovenia is on track to fulfil those commitments that we have made as a country. The key of these commitments is that in the coming year, in 2013, the deficit of the whole public sector will be below 3% of gross domestic product, which means more than half as low as it was last year. Therefore, we simply cannot wait for the budget to be drawn up for next year, but we have already had to propose with this rebalancing measures to enable us to draw convincingly closer to this goal that we have to achieve next year. Such a planned deficit in the country's budget, which is foreseen by this rebalancing, is 3% of gross domestic product, will also allow us to see the deficit of the whole country sector and the whole public sector somewhere between 3% and 4% of gross domestic product. And it will allow us to plan the budget next year by meeting this commitment we have made. Perhaps at the beginning, because we actually had very little time not only to prepare the measures, but also to present them, there will be some minor differences in the numbers that we will be talking about here and we will officially accept them as our goal, and those that will be the first assessments by the European Commission, but, for us, what is essential is, above all, the substantive assessment that we are succeeding with these measures and in a different way of working to turn Slovenian public financial policy in the right direction and that we are on the right track to fulfil our commitments within this deadline. The question that often arises in relation to these measures is whether they will affect economic growth. This question is raised in the context of thinking, which in my opinion is inappropriate or does not correspond to the situation in which Slovenia is today, does not correspond to the options that Slovenian economic policy has today. We simply cannot think about increasing the deficit or maintaining the same deficit, and this is the means of borrowing to accelerate economic growth for a number of reasons. Firstly, because experience over the past years has shown that such a policy in a small open economy does not produce the right results. We already have three years of high deficits, and we still have about 0% economic growth and we have a growing number of unemployed people. At the same time, we believe that the key word needed to follow is to enable a new investment momentum, credibility, the credibility of economic policy and Slovenia as an investment environment. I do not believe that the budget could drive economic growth, at least not the main driver of economic growth. The budget must be prepared both on the income and on the expenditure side, that it is sustainable and that it is encouraging for those wishing to invest in a country, both domestic and foreign. This battle for credibility has been lost in recent years. I could have told you a lot of stories that I had heard in recent weeks by people, especially from abroad, as well as from local people who wanted to invest in Slovenia, but for that there was no proper hearing, received promises that were not fulfilled or that they ran into a wall of bureaucratic and other obstacles. We need to change these things and do much for our own conviction, or other projects waiting for the government, the start of the investment cycle, the recapitalisation of banks, without budget cooperation and the like, so it is imperative to make this fiscal adjustment today and make it convincing. The accounts presented to us by the government's official macroeconomic forecasters also talk about this. It is true that they have pointed out that this year's budget adjustment will have a slightly negative impact on economic growth by around 0.5% of GDP, but at the same time they have pointed out that without these measures it would only be worse in the coming years. While we can now count on positive economic growth in the coming years, if this fiscal balance is not proposed, up to 15 percent and more would have declined by 2015. This is the scenario we want to avoid with these measures. Since we, as a government, proposed these measures, the Proposal for a Law on Public Finance Balance and the Proposal for a Balance, intensive coordination has taken place with trade unions, the public, interest groups and we have also listened to certain warnings and proposals by the opposition. As a result of this negotiation, these discussions have been marked by changes. In the actions we have presented through the amendments in the past days at the meetings of the parent committee and even today at the meeting, we will do so. Let me mention something. In the area of social policy, labour market policies have changed the measures to abolish free kindergarten into a measure by which parents will contribute 30% of the costs to another child, depending on the class in which they are classified. Third and subsequent children, however, will continue to have a free kindergarten. Parental leave will continue to pay 90% and not 80% in recent months, as we originally proposed. The maximum level of parental leave will be limited to 2 times the average wage and not to 1.5. The unemployment allowance will remain the same in the first months as it is, and in the second year of unemployment we will reduce it to 50% in order to encourage job search and also reduce the duration in which the beneficiaries receive this compensation for the unemployed. May 2nd will continue to be a holiday. At the same time, following proposals made by trade unions and also by opposition parties, we have introduced into the very law on public finances a number of measures on the tax side that will facilitate the financing of fiscal adjustment and try to cover assets, capital that has not been sufficiently taxed so far. This is an additional tax on high-value real estate over the value of EUR 1 million. It is an additional taxation of powerful large expensive vehicles and vessels. This is about increasing the rate of income from capital from 20% to 25%, including the introduction of the fourth tax class in income, 50% in the amount of five average wages as a temporary anti-crisis tax for 2013 and 2014, and also the measure proposed in the law if we do not reach the goal of lowering the deficit of the state budget below 3% of the gross domestic product in 2014 automatically raising the rate of value added tax by as much as next year's surplus deficit, it is said that we have installed an automatic stabiliser. In the field of the public sector, in negotiations with the unions, we agreed to reduce wages by 10%, as provided for by law, to 8%. We have agreed that both steps to eliminate disproportionates should be eliminated immediately, at the same time as wage cuts, and some adjustments to some other work-related benefits. We have also agreed to move the debate on standards in education from this law to an agreement in the next few weeks. How will the financial effects of these adjustments be covered? With adjustments within the balance sheet with appropriate amendments. In order to be able to do so, we have proposed another measure in recent days, which was linked to the recognition of specific periods of retirement, periods of education, military service and so on. Given that we wanted to reach agreement with the social partners in particular, this measure was withdrawn yesterday, and we will have the means to cover these arrangements, the value of about 100 million, possibly several million, provided with transfers within the budget in the course of the year and with some amendments to be proposed today. Nevertheless, we will maintain the deficit of the state budget at that target level of one billion and 3% of the gross domestic product. What is the meaning of this agreement? Yesterday evening, we received a commitment, a promise, also by the public sector unions, to sign an agreement today. This signing is just taking place. What is the meaning of this arrangement for us? It is crucial that trade unions have given up the possibility that the Public Finance Balance Act itself will be subject to a referendum initiative or support such initiatives. This means that in the coming months, instead of dealing with the referendum, unstable, risky situations, we will have a peaceful situation in which the government will be able to focus on other measures that must also be taken. Trade unions will join those who have not yet signed the social agreements. It is very clear with them and it is also stated in these agreements that, in the framework of the talks on the social agreement to be concluded by summer, we continue to discuss pension reform, including those measures that have now been withdrawn, discussions on education standards, discussions on labour market reforms, all that is not in law now, and we will have to do as a state in the coming months and perhaps next year. At the end of the day, we still have a billion deficits left after this rebalancing, which will also need to be reduced in the coming years, because obviously there was enough consensus in the Constitutional Commission yesterday to move forward with the introduction of a fiscal rule into the constitution. This will also command us to find solutions for the remaining billion deficits in the coming years by 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The proposal for a rebalancing was addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Patrice Schulin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u8	President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! At its 19th urgent meeting, on 8 May 2012, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012 submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. The Committee was informed of the views of interested working bodies, which took note of the proposal for a rebalancing and did not formulate and adopt their amendments. The opinion of the Council was forwarded to the Committee and the Committee was also informed of the letters of interest to the public. During the business term, qualified applicants tabled sixty-six amendments to the proposed balance. The initial explanation of the tabled balance was given by the Minister of Finance, first of all pointing to the reasons for his submission. A key issue for this year's rebalancing was how to achieve a fiscal target that would allow the planned deficit to fall below 3% of gross domestic product, or billions and 72 million euros. With regard to the expected deficit, Slovenia has made a commitment and is expected to be convincing below 3%. At the time of adoption of the budget, which is adopted for two years, the forecast for economic growth was different than it is now. The government's decision on the excessive balance is in the direction of reducing budget expenditure. The aim of the government is to reach an agreement in which key trade unions will renounce the proposal for a rebalancing and a law on public finances to be subject to a referendum judgment. The Director of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development briefly presented a general economic picture for 2012 in which the economic situation has changed. The rapporteurs of interested working bodies, namely the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on Health and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment, presented the opinions adopted at their meetings. In the debate on the proposed rebalancing, members of a committee of opposition parliamentary groups pointed out that the way in which the economic crisis and the reduction of the deficit in Slovenia were tackled by the Government did not take the right path, as the measures only affect the expenditure side of the budget, particularly in the area of education and social protection. The deficit is the difference between revenue and expenditure and it would therefore be appropriate to influence and take measures on both sides of the budget, as some other members of the European Union have done. They believe that the proposal for a rebalancing is incomplete and point out the problem of projections for the following years because they consider them not realistic. There are several right ways to promote economic growth and one could also be to apply fiscal policy as one of the pillars of economic policy or to raise the level of public investment in the energy, infrastructure and environment that could have a positive impact on economic growth. Domestic demand and not just saving should also be positively affected. The problem is that austerity measures interfere with the social protection of people. They also highlighted the important impact of the pension system, the long-term sustainability of public finances and the important role of Slovenian banks. In the debate on the tabled balance, members of a coalition group committee said that the proposal for a rebalancing was realistic and expected to have a positive impact on the public financial situation. The balance sheet and the Proposal for a Law on Public Finance Balance should be adopted quickly as almost half of 2012 already has passed and Slovenia is losing funds every day without measures. The Committee identified itself to the amendments tabled by qualified candidates tabled in accordance with Article 166 of the Rules of Procedure and supported in this context all amendments of the coalition groups, amendments of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia to the following users: District Court in Koper, Kranj, Ljubljana, Maribor, Murski Soboti, Novi Gorica, New Town, Krske, Ptuj, Slovenj Gradc and the District Court in Ljubljana. The Committee did not support any of the other amendments tabled and did not identify themselves to amendments not tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u9	Thank you. This is followed by a shift in the positions of the members of the groups. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I give the floor to Mr Jank Webr.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the priorities for reducing the public financial deficit should be based on a balance between the means for development, social security and savings. Unfortunately, we find that this is not the case in the 2012 balance. The government carries the burden of the crisis to the medium layer, minimally burdens the assets, even burdens capital, drastic interference with universities, science and technology and the drastic reduction of public administration funds will be met by many investment start-up procedures. And as the most interesting investment – investments in rail infrastructure are back on the side track. Therefore, we will not support the 2012 balance of the budget in the Group of Social Democrats. The proposed austerity measures amounting to €818 million and the reduction of the structural deficit by 2% of GDP under the Stability Programme show a policy of the Government of Rapid Savings, which will reduce the public spending of the state budget by €350 million. In the Group of Social Democrats, we regret that the government did not choose for 2012 a prudent and gradual consolidation of public finances that would not have affected economic growth. Reducing the public spending of the state budget by 350 million in 2012 means that the state budget will contribute to a reduction in economic growth directly and indirectly in the amount of twice the reduction in public spending or by 2% of GDP. Reducing the deficit at the expense of public spending alone will thus stifle the economy. We also refer to the analysis of the International Monetary Fund on rapid savings, which poses a major threat to economic recovery. The International Monetary Fund has already concluded in its 2010 analysis that fiscal consolidation, equivalent to 1% of GDP, usually reduces GDP by about half a percent in two years and raises unemployment by about 0.3 percentage points and reduces domestic demand, consumption and investment by about 1%. From this we conclude that government measures reducing the structural deficit in 2012 by 2% of GDP will reduce the country's general sector deficit without taking one-off measures by 1.6% of GDP, i.e. from 5.1 in 2011 to 3.5% of GDP in 2012. On the basis of such consolidation of public finances in 2012, at 1.6% of GDP, economic growth will decrease by 0.8% of GDP and unemployment will increase by 0.48% and 4 thousand 800 people. In the Group of Social Democrats, we estimate that the continuation of the deficit reduction should also be based on an increase in the revenue of the State budget. In order to achieve this, we have already shown in the previous mandate when we wanted to reduce the grey economy. At that time, however, the ruling SDS party proposed a referendum on the Law on the Prevention of Work on the Black, which would bring employment for indefinite periods to employees in black, and a small job would also reduce the grey economy. The fall of pension reform has also increased the number of pensioners to record levels. As a result, the hole in 2012 is 300 million. As a result, there is a larger hole in the health treasury. In the Group of Social Democrats, we must stress that if our laws were to be adopted in the previous term of the referendum, public spending should not be so drastically reduced today in 2012, the intervention law should only be extended to freeze public sector wages by the end of 2012 and propose higher taxation of the richest. When we look at what the current government's income policy is, we find that the income scale has gone in the direction that, in the greatest possible way, is the richest. That is why, in our parliamentary group, we have proposed amendments and also an income law proposing an additional income class of €60,000 gross per year, which will tax the richest. The proposed additional class would increase the revenue of the state budget by around €40 million. This gives the government the opportunity to draw up more favourable austerity measures on the revenue side. We believe that the level of introduction of an additional income class at 3.2 times the average wage is an appropriate level of taxation because in fact it would be taxed on the richest people with wages above EUR 2 000 700 net, which is 25 000 in Slovenia. Unfortunately, we find that the government does not want to tax the richer. Although our proposal for an income class has been summarized, it has sought to tax those who have salaries higher than 5 times the average wage or more than 3 000 800 euros net. Of course, these taxpayers are significantly smaller, around 8 000, so that not only will the revenue in the budget be EUR 40 million, but we estimate somewhere between EUR 10 and 15 million. We also note that the government seems to want to tax the richer by taxing vessels. In fact, it proposes taxation of water vessels in a way that will in fact transfer ties from Slovenian marinas to Croatia and we will not receive an additional 250,000 revenues from our state budget. It is also a matter of what the government wants to achieve with an additional tax on motor vehicles. Richer taxes will try to avoid because instead of buying a new car, they prefer to rent or leasing a car, which is why they will not pay the tax. We think that if the government wanted to tax the rich more, then it would tax the immovable property that cannot be transferred anywhere, it remains in Slovenia and this property certainly includes empty apartments and numerous luxury villas. While a tax on assets worth more than EUR 1 million is proposed under certain conditions, this is far from a tax that could be claimed to be a fair division of the burden of the crisis. The proposed reduction in corporate tax rates from 20% to 18%, including an increase in tax incentives, will also reduce the tax liability for 2012 by 170 million euros. The capital is therefore burdened by €170 million. However, in 2013, 2014 and 2015 following this proposal, the tax rate will be lower by one percentage point each year, which means that in each further year the budget revenue will be lower by an additional EUR 32 million, or in all of these years by 2015 we will have 266 million less in the budget due to a reduction in capital taxation. This is a characteristic of the tax policy of the current government. The saddest part is that the government will spend these 266 million euros by lowering taxes without raising economic growth without eliminating unemployment. For example, if we increased the country's investment for this amount, we would have raised economic growth this year and we could have talked about providing new jobs this year. However, we do note that companies will not invest further, even though their tax liability is lower or their tax relief is increased. In situations where orders are decreasing, companies also reduce production and deplete activity. As a result, no new investments are decided, and an analysis by the Ministry of Finance of the effect of reducing the tax rate on corporate income by means of a general balancing model shows a minimal impact on all elements of the gross social product. In these uncertain situations, we believe that it would be better for the State to directly encourage the economy through subsidies for investment in technological equipment and calls for company development projects. In view of the content of the balance, we find that the rebalancing distorts the subsidisation of enterprises, cuts development resources, and therefore we expect Slovenia to increase the development backlog compared to the European Union, and this is extremely worrying. We think that the overall impact of reducing corporate taxation and reducing investment and subsidies and state aid in the budget will have a negative impact on the recovery of the economy that we know is indebted. We believe that the government should indeed maintain or even increase subsidies to encourage businesses. Over-indebted companies will not recover without tax aid and some will not be able to survive. Banka Slovenije data already show that only one third of companies are able to repay their credit obligations. Reducing investment expenditure and investment transfers in the budget balance will have a very negative impact on economic growth, employment and the existence of certain companies. In doing so, we must pay particular attention to the drastic reduction in the resources for the development of rail infrastructure. In 2012, projects totalling €136.2 million were planned and only €47.3 million is foreseen for the rebalancing, which is a reduction of around €89 million. I think it is clear that without adequate railway infrastructure there will be no economic development. If we make comparisons with the best countries, with better economic prospects, they have higher deficits because these countries are aware of the need to encourage the economy, but not just to save. Austria will, for example, create a high deficit of 3.6 gross social product at 0.6% of economic growth, despite the fact that companies are indebted to the lowest in the European Union. We would also like to stress that the recovery of the economy in the 2009/2011 period could be much faster, but economic growth has further fallen due to the consequences of the wrong economic policy of the then government, Janez Janša, which overheated the economy. Since the beginning of 2005, economic growth has been based on increased indebtedness. The most pronounced increase in gross external debt in 2007 was a good EUR 10 billion, which means that 6.8% of economic growth was based on very unhealthy foundations. The total external gross debt increased from € 15.3 billion to €39.2 billion within the mandate of Mr Janša's previous government. It is said that during the entire mandate of the then government, Slovenia was in charge abroad of almost the same amount as Slovenia owed from independence until the end of 2004. With the return of this government, a rapid consolidation of public finances is proposed in 2012 and in 2013. To a greater extent, the government saves without taking account of the situation in the economy. This will result in a lost decade of government and coalition, as the economy will be picked up much slower than it could otherwise be. We understand the Government's rapid and large-scale strategy of saving Social Democrats by doing this only because they want to be liked by the European Commission and capital owners or financial markets. If we look at the government's direction on expenditure in the proposed rebalancing: if we combine the policy of higher education, science, technology and information society and the policy of entrepreneurship and competitiveness, we find that in 2011 it was earmarked for the developmental conversion of EUR 886 million, 798 000 and 2.84% of gross social product. In 2012, the reduction of funds for this purpose will total 2.13% of the gross social product, or EUR 758 million 376 000, or to the 2008 level. I think it is clear that if we want to reduce the development backlog, we should increase these funds, not reduce them. If the Government would like to look after the economy rather than try to strangle it, it should maintain the level of resources for research and development, investment in education and the level of resources for active employment policy. Unfortunately, government proposals reduce funds for all these measures. With the 2012 proposal for a rebalancing of public finances, together with the proposal for a bill on the balance of public finances for areas within the competence of the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, we can conclude that Slovenia is giving up the future that is supposed to be based on knowledge. Compared to the implementation of 2011, the funds are falling by more than €260 million. The reduction of budgetary resources and other measures envisaged by the Government in the field of education, science and research will in the long term reject the intellectual potential of the Slovenian country and the institutions implementing the programmes will be at the brink of survival. Therefore, it is not random to warn experts who compare current events with events in systems that are supposed to be exceeded by civilisation and, in themselves, offer a thesis on the attack on the intellectual core of Slovenian society. It is significant, however, that new, political and economically semi-private higher education institutions are forecasting in the wake of the apparent impoverishment of public education, and it is more or less clear that such thinking is based on government intentions. If we also look at measures, increasing the number of children in classes, closing schools, reducing accessibility to high-quality public education and introducing schooling, impoverishing public universities and other educational institutions, degrading teaching and research professions, they are only part of the measures that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia records in documents and is faithfully sending them to Brussels addresses. It follows clearly from the above that universities and research institutes cannot bear such a drastic reduction in resources mainly in the second half of 2012 and that they will certainly have an emergency situation. "Not paying wages and leaving or preparing for the departure of the best experts will stop the work process, illiquidity will result in the loss of services. All of this will divert attention and action away from teaching and research work with all direct and indirect consequences." This is the thought expressed by the Dean of the Faculty of Economics, Dr. Marble. We also conclude that the government's savings and imbalance in the balance sheet with the Public Finance Balance Act will also jeopardise the functioning of many agencies, institutes and other indirect budgetary users due to the compromises adopted. Unfortunately, the government has decided on a strategy to save and reduce the deficit, which will be the most painful for people, especially for the middle layer. The political recalculation of the government and the failure to implement our rejected structural reforms condemns Slovenia to a lost decade of low economic growth and increasing unemployment. As a result, the Social Democrats cannot support a harmful balance and too quickly and misdirected savings in these two documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u11	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Bojan Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u12	Thank you so much for your words, Mr. President, and a nice greeting to everyone! We have before us a decision on the 2012 budget rebalancing. We know that this is a 9 billion-expenditure balance and about 8 billion revenues. There has been a lot of pressure and effort everywhere, and there has been a lot of effort to achieve this 9 billion consumption, everywhere, from wages to material costs, most of it in investments. With difficulty, ministers have probably found that, with such a reduced amount of money, we will be able to ensure the normal functioning of the country at all. Oh, yeah. They made a proposal, which we have somewhat supplemented on the Committee, corrected and is before us. It is right to accept it, so the National Gazette will support this proposal. What's my problem? It bothers me that I proposed last year, but I think we should push a little harder. It does not target 3% of the deficit and still create one billion euro deficits. See, in 2008, we paid 336 million euros in interest, in 2009, 488, in 2010, in fact, I cancelled for one year, 526 million euros, for this year we find that the cost of interest will be 700 million euros, which means that the total debt is increasing, the terms of the debt are getting weaker and the amount of interest we have to pay. EUR 700 million is quite a bit of money if I were to move it into all these amendments and all these attempts when we cut spending. However, this additional billion debt will also bring new 70 million in the coming year, perhaps even more. However, we hope that if we actually make this decision, we will still become credible in Europe, that they will believe that we have only turned the trend in the right direction. There's one more thing that bothers me. On the one hand, I am very positive about the approach and negotiation of austerity measures with the social partners, with all of them, and I have always called for us to be aware that we simply need to do so. I don't understand some, especially parliamentary parties, who talk in all kinds and in all ways, because we have enough time to agree, let's prepare new programmes, let's do analyses for five years. Of course we don't have much time. We must make a quick decision, and I am very happy that there is only some relative agreement with the social partners who have understood and I hope that we will all slowly realize that we have no choice but to do so. If we are too indebted at home, we need to know that we will spend less in the next period, and we will have to spend less if we are no longer able to do so. It's clear. We are not talking about this at all and no one has ever talked about this EUR 17.6 billion of credit, the country's indebtedness, that these loans will have to be repaid at some point in time, so that this scale will have to be reduced. I have heard the debater before me, who has very much defined how foolish we are when we want to take austerity measures to achieve certain measures and that we should work more on how to increase revenue in the budget. Of course I agree with that. I'm glad, I think these revenues are rational enough, they're not overblown, they're going to be what they're going to be. We know that we have significantly reduced some estimates on the revenue side, EUR 185 million on income, EUR 235 million on excise duties, and I hope that they will actually be settled on the income side, and we may even achieve a slightly better result than minus 3% this year. However, we must be aware of this, here I might add a few words that I have heard from the previous debate. In 2008, we had a public consumption of 44.2%, in total 49% of GDP generated in all four stores, in 2011, 50.9%, more than half of us spent in the public sector to perform the function of the country and all that. We've spent 18 billion and 189 million euros, and we've created 35 billion 630 million euros of GDP. It is clear how deep and how fast we are going and how nothing helps us if we speak out and look for thousands of options, how we should save, how we would continue to drive this too much public spending, how we would achieve it, in what way. I remembered a joke, and I'd say to her for a bit of relaxation, "Scott's son comes out of school all breathed and strong and says to Dad, "Yeah, what did you do to make you so tired?" And my son said, "But you know what, I ran after a school bus all the way, and I saved five pennies." Dad says, "You fool, why didn't you run after a cab and save a lot more?" This is sometimes the point and in fact the point of our discussions, which are completely meaningless. It is therefore clear that these things must be accepted. That they should be accepted as soon as possible and that one consensus should be found on these matters, which are important for all citizens. We can't play with this. I wrote in June last year when the rebalancing of the previous government was done, and I also quoted myself on the board as saying, "For God's sake, let's once understand the seriousness of the situation and step together and pull this wagon out of the shit we're in. Let's make this Slovenia more optimistic, etc. "Why do we always have to argue, and we always have to look for ways to go differently to things that we know we can't do differently and that we have to do so? I would also rather see that there is an investment momentum in the budget so that I do not know what more resources for this purpose, but these are the steps that will necessarily need to be taken in the future. I think that this budget is the beginning of a story, that it is an awareness of the situation and a common decision that we must start saving because it is one, unfortunately, of the preconditions that we can free ourselves of the opportunity to discuss how to increase our GDP, how to increase economic growth, how to create more. We've missed a lot. All of Europe is ahead of us. For God's sake, let's also give this fiscal rule, including the measures in this Public Finance Balance Act, which gives us support or something to write in the budget, and then this needs to be regulated by law. He does intervene in 45 marriages, and perhaps some matter is at stake. Well, for God's sake, don't look like I said, hair in an egg! But we do know that the purpose is good, that all things were taken into account, that he was trying to find a way to make this thing work quickly. And a lot of comments were taken into account. And this is one of the great things we've achieved. The steps that need to be taken to increase prosperity, to increase economic growth, are ahead of us. We're going to have to do a lot more and make a difference, both in our heads and in our actions. We have a whole series of different specs that keep us away from these problems. We heard that we were in debt – not in debt, then in debt to the banks, under the excessive supervision of the central bank, and when loans were made, and the overcrowding of other deposits in the banking system, because we were so easily and so irresponsiblely lending huge loans to buy-back companies for so-called tycunization. That money didn't do what he was meant to do. If you borrow money and don't return it properly, that investment doesn't increase the income you make with that money, and you get in trouble. And this money for the purchase of businesses has not increased the income a little bit, or has even been drawn further from these companies. This is the story of the wrong privatisation and the mistakes that I hope we will not repeat. These banks are now our common problem. I say, if they've been so irresponsible about lending loans to companies, to tycoons, to various financial holding companies, then they should try not to get everyone out of these banks. Make sure they get that money back! They should make an effort to take over ownership shares in companies, to manage them and to achieve results or repayments of their deposits and loans through the management of these shares. We have a whole series of things that have made our situation worse. But we also have a great opportunity, because as small, we can look for other markets, other things, of course, if we can improve our competitiveness a little bit. Here I must welcome, despite the failure to argue in a wide range of areas, that we have already taken some measures to promote or improve competitiveness. For example, raising investment incentives for entrepreneurs and businesses. Despite the fact that the talk we have spent on this, I do not think it is worth the money to make it easier for people to pay less taxes and invest in such a way the money they have already earned in their programmes, in additional programmes, will be a completely different matter. It is true, however, that we are very poor and constantly falling in competitiveness. One of the major burdens was when this country was increasingly swallowed up and absorbed an increasing proportion of GDP and there was not enough room for business development. And the other thing is in us, in tradition, in history. Our competitiveness, our productivity in the public sector and in the private sector is unfortunately much lower than European analyses show. We do a lot, a lot too little, which is why we have these salaries. I've said many times in companies where I've spent most of my working time, if we were doing the same thing as abroad, with the same productivity, with the same costs, under the same conditions, then we'd have the same wages, no worries, we'd have the same wages. And then I went to the other side and listed why and where. Three times, four times in my life, I was in companies where we raised productivity by 100 to 150% in three years! Doubled, done once more! But in the shoe company, because we're good, because we work more than anywhere in the world, because we achieve the best standards, people are good. They're really good, the ones that work. And I said, "Oh, for God's sake, why do we do that if we take into account all the employees, comparatively three pairs of shoes per employee, or in Germany or Italy make fifteen pairs? What the hell is wrong here?" Then I started listing. Our regulations have always had to be fixed in half an hour, lunchtime. We find that a lot of people were sitting around the offices and throwing papers, and there was a lot of directing. In some companies, we've reduced this direction without firing anyone, by half or more. We've moved people into production and we've increased it to so many minutes. We looked at the cost of purchasing materials, we looked at all the stupid costs that we had paid in companies, we deleted them, and we practically got the company without credit, or even vice versa, in the companies where I was, we had to repay old loans without getting any new loans. And all of this had to be obtained from a higher quality of management and business. We have to do this in our companies and in our country. In companies where they provide higher economic growth and our higher well-being, there is still a lot of room, there is still a lot of reserves. Never and never have we asked the state to give us something that is not comparable in the world. We said, "For God's sake, give us the same conditions to manage as in other countries of the world!" It is called a simple and fast country in preventing bureaucratic obstacles and all that and favouring entrepreneurs, which is far from there. We only have bureaucracy for ourselves for other plans. The other thing is the cost of work. We could have 100,000 employees more, for example, if in the labour-intensive industries we reduce the tax, what I know, the second wage tax, and none of the economists can calculate why all this labour-intensive industry has failed. Of course, trends are shrinking, production is moving, but this could be happening slowly. There are almost a thousand 600 people in the Jury of Alpine, when the company continued and lived, slowly went to retirement, and there were no major job losses. And it could be similar in other companies. And we went to these poor wages with such percentages that it's terrible. Nowhere in the world is such taxation work, especially in the upper classes, but there is too much in the lower classes. We know that on average, a higher-class worker does not get 20% of what the employer pays. We have a whole series of different bureaucracys. I found it in the company, but now we've managed somewhere, what I know, in Mura, hell, whether we've really forgotten to pay 6% for someone who's been understaffed. And I'm going to take a look, because that was 600,000 euros. I calculated that instead of 120 disabled people 60. And you have to pay a minimum wage for those 60s. And I could count it. And we walk inspectors, we do a variety of analyses on how these jobs are, whether they're really lit up, and they demand huge investment from companies, huge investments that they don't make anywhere in the world, and so on. We do everything we can to ensure that these companies have more costs than they need to. Some things will have to change the state, not give money. In my proposal, which I made last June, I said that state subsidies in the economy should be reduced or almost abolished, as well as to banks. But why, none of this has had any effect, people just got used to it. I tell you an example when I asked, an impossible situation, a loss of markets, an impossible, a huge debt of the company, half the markets lost, half the assets lost in the former Yugoslavia, we lost the markets of Russia. I'm talking way back. What I'm trying to say is what's going on. We have lost markets where we have earned three times as much per unit of product as we have from exports to the West. Fortunately, we had a big export to the west. We had to increase our orders and activities in the Western markets that remained and sell and survive there with three times lower earnings per unit of product than before. In doing so, we asked the country for subsidies to help us. We didn't get anything. Then I almost gave up as director, and then I said maybe it was better that we didn't get anything. We spit in our hands and started working. It has to be supported. We have to move on. We need to work together for the good of all of us and not be too smart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Starman. Good day to you all! In order to present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, please ask Mr Roman Žveglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u14	Your Honor! Good day to you all! According to the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, today is a historic moment. Slovenia has not yet had such a austerity budget or a rebalancing of the budget. If we look through history, there were virtually no serious problems in the area of public finances. After the initial shock of independence, our economy grew to moderate growth levels until 2008. There was also a constant increase in budget revenues, so that we adjusted our expenditure all the time. There have been no major shocks, disasters or other unforeseen events. So practically there were no problems. We even got used to it, so after 18 years, practically nothing can be wrong in this area. Well, that's how it went. We support this budget balance in the Slovenian People's Party. We would also support a sharper version, because we need to come from logic so that our standard of living can be exactly what our economy can afford. Any anomaly or deviation from this basic concept, not only is it known once, even more. The shock of sobering up is even greater then. In case I can figure it out. Let's just say I made a good living in 2008 and in my work. I buy a Mercedes for a leasing, I pay for a high meal every month. Then comes some unforeseen situation, my employer cuts my salary by 15, 20%. Of course I don't just give myself up. I'm still driving my prestigious car. I don't want to give up my standard. The first year of leasing would probably work. I'd borrow a little bit, spend a little bit of time in the second year, whatever little things I'd give up, and so on. I guess I'd still be able to make it next year. I'd still borrow, increase the limit on the bank, take a little more expensive credit. During the third year, I would have been very familiar with this in my daily life, since I would have been in charge of the neck, and I would have run out of available income for the current needs, practically for normal life. For four years the house of Lysin would certainly come and take it away from me — a Mercedes. And that is the case with the state of Slovenia. In 2008 the crisis catches us off guard. You have to admit that. In a very short time, there is a strong fall in GDP. If we go back to the case. In the case of transfer, we get paid down, but as a country, we still drive a Mercedes. More. We bought additional equipment because practically every budget on the expenditure side was larger than the previous one. At the time, we did not give up our standard, despite the completely changed economic situation we have lived practically as we have lived. Every year, the country took a few more loans. Slovenia was still an excellent mercenary and was in low debt at the time. Despite the poor situation in the financial markets, we have received money. Price – change, two billion euros each year. At that time, of course, it was not about major investments that would draw the economic cycle, draw the Slovenian economy out of the crisis and so on. No, no, no. At that time, we guaranteed the same wages and maintained all existing rights, those rights that we already had quite a hard time affording ourselves in 2008. After the poor results of the Slovenian economy, however, this has become virtually impossible. Let us look ahead at the real situation. What's saving? It's a procedure when you spend less than you have, and you put something aside. Even after the adoption of this balance, Slovenia will not save anything, so our pig will remain empty. There will still be a budget deficit of around 3% of GDP or, if we say so in the figure, a good billion euros. Despite the measures it has been so scrupulously opposed in recent months, we will still spend a billion more than we have practically. Would you like this government to really save money? Then imagine that all these measures that we have on the table today are even twice as tight as we have so far. We reduce wages by 20%, social welfare funds also, education funds. Is that what you want?Oh, my God! I guess not. But that would be real savings. Such austerity measures had to be taken by countries in need of international assistance. With us, thank God, we're not in this situation yet. With today's rebalancing, we're just following our finances into some normal framework to show that we can even limit ourselves. Therefore, it will be difficult for us in the Slovenian People's Party to convince us how drastic these measures are in fact, when we imagine no, what can follow if we do not begin to do so immediately today. There's something else that's interesting to say. Investments. There is often talk of state investments that drive the economy. Whether we are aware that we are saving less than we are saving on public sector spending, we need to take more on other items. Are we aware that every half percent, when we give up, for example, on public sector salaries, represents millions and millions of euros of public investment. Obviously, we are not aware of this, for many people are convincing us that there is no need to take it anywhere, but at the same time we would spend more. If I say that's not possible, I don't have to be any neoliberal. I'm just a man who can figure out it's two and two fours and not seven, eight or even more. Knowing that this proposed policy has not produced much fruit in recent years after all these indicators. Today, we can ask again publicly those major criticisms of this time's rebalancing, those who like to call themselves members of another economic doctrine. If we play by our rules, because we have chosen a harder path, so without raising taxes and additional financial burdens, tell us how we would solve the current situation. Raise taxes is no problem: today we write a decree, tomorrow all citizens pay more and more. Who will be harmed by this measure, if not by the socially weak, who consume the entire income immediately? Unless, of course, we assume that people with low incomes are practically not buying anything other than food. Where are the rents, gas, electricity, water, telephone, internet in this scenario?Oh, my God! Is that free?Oh, my God! Who saves on such a measure?Oh, my God! Not the public sector. It is increasingly at the expense of burdening the weakest and Slovenian companies, resulting in job cuts and direct printing of family budgets. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that rationalisation is not yet over. It will also be necessary to deepen the functioning of the state apparatus system and to find reserves that we all know exist. But it can't be done overnight. The government needs time, and some measures are needed today. The government coalition has decided to take the hard road and first arrange the expenditure. Yes, for the first time in history, we rationalise consumption, followed immediately by measures that will have a medium-term impact also on budget inflows, on competitiveness, on a better business environment, and that require patience for investments. Every fruit grower knows that fruit tree needs to be cultivated every year. At the end of winter, it must be circumcised, let into the roof of the sun, light if we want to have the same and quality crop every year. If we don't cut off the top, we have a lush flowering, but one year no crop, and the other year a tiny and unquality fruit. The government coalition will circumcise and arrange this roof, which can be named Slovenian public finances. The present balance of the budget is part of this regulation and is therefore absolutely supported by the Members of the Slovenian People's Party. However, I would like to say something else, but none of the SD Group members are in the Chamber, but still, when I heard the position of the Social Democrats, I would like to add this on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group. We have also adopted intervention laws in the previous term. In 2009, the intervention law counted 9 articles and in 2010 the intervention law counted 11 articles. The substance of both laws was the coordination of social transfers and the coordination of pensions. So the target audience, if I may put it this way, were unemployed and retired. There was no spirit or hearing in the previous mandate on taxation of rich people, not the spirit of large state investments, nor the spirit or hearing of any rationalisation of consumption by ministries, by the public sector, on taxation of property, superstandard. Today, this government, which has been in office for three months, is given opposition instructions that it should take these measures and that it is already late. The difference between the current government and today's government today is that the former government has had the resources to intervene in the economy, as it has accelerated its debt, while the current government no longer has these funds, as cheap money is no longer available in the markets. Thus, through the creation of a savings rebalancing government, it reached into almost 50 laws, looked for reserves everywhere, prepared progressive measures that least affect the weakest. The measures are systemic, some are only temporary, but they are fairly distributed and all bear their share of the burden of the crisis. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that this is the only and only way. Dear Members, I wish you a wealth of clear thoughts, constructive words fighting, peaceful blood and a cold hall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u16	All welcome, especially to government representatives and dear colleagues! The 2012 budget in force was adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in November 2010 and is based on much higher and already outdated growth forecasts in last year and this year. The economic and financial crisis has worsened considerably since the adoption of the budget. Therefore, the need for a thorough intervention in public expenditure and revenue has been demonstrated. Today we have a proposal for a budget rebalancing that significantly reduces budgetary expenditure. Cuts are given to all policies, one more, the other less. However, it would be very difficult to afford to leave the budget as it was adopted a year and a half ago, since this would mean that we are weak and completely irresponsible masters and that we are not aware of the seriousness of the situation in which not only Slovenia but all Europe is in. We would continue to spend more than we master. The fact is, with each rebalancing, something is taken away from someone that arouses dissatisfaction and protests. In the DeSUS Group, we are particularly concerned about the lowering of items in the areas of family policy and social security of the unemployed, especially young people who finish their studies and cannot regulate their own lives and create a family due to unemployment. The other risk group are the unemployed elderly, who are difficult to employ, and neither for their own fault can contribute to improving their financial situation, as well as contribute to the budget and the cash flow of the health, pension and social system, but are the beneficiaries of social transfers, which is probably not appropriate to them. The situation of the protection of older persons, long-term care at home and institutional protection is of particular concern. We fear that the accessibility of all these services will be greatly hampered by low-income pensioners. In these areas, many more discussions and constructive discussions will be needed to achieve acceptable solutions for these vulnerable groups. Together, we must be aware that the balance, which unfortunately cannot be enjoyed by all, must be accepted as soon as possible, as many individuals, jobs and projects depend on it. As an example, I should mention the programme within the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs: Promoting employment and self-employment. A little less than €40 million is allocated annually for this programme and, above all, the self-employment programme is of great interest to citizens and citizens. This year, this item is increasing by 7 million, which is certainly commendable, but the programme has not yet begun this year, as it depends on the adoption of the budget rebalancing. People who are trying to do something for themselves, start their own business are dependent on these funds, so we must not forget that the early adoption of the budget rebalance is dependent on a large number of people, and that we must not afford muscle measurements between coalitions and opposition, but allow the programmes to be implemented as quickly as possible and the ongoing business to take place normally. We have listened to many proposals in the Parliamentary Group and the party DeSUS, together with coalition partners, and have taken them into account to the greatest extent possible. At the same time, the coalition partners have also listened to our efforts to maintain the annual pensioner-recreation allowance, with under-average pensions, which are comparatively high in our economic conditions for the poverty threshold. Let us not forget the promises that we have made to our constituents to act constructively, regardless of party affiliation. In the DeSUS Group, as representatives of responsible Slovenian policy, we will support the 2012 budget rebalancing proposal, bearing in mind that compromises should continue to be sought so that there is as little dissatisfaction among the entire Slovenian population as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u17	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, distinguished Council of Ministers! Yesterday we celebrated Europe's day and marked 62 years of European integration, which was conceived by the great statesman, Christian Democrat, first President of the European Parliament Robert Schuman, one of the fathers of modern united Europe, after the horrors and ruins of World War II. The European project started with six members, now 27 members and will soon be 28 Member States with half a billion people. Europe is united on the basis of values such as peace, freedom and solidarity. It is good to remember the past and achievements, but we need to prepare well for the future. In the European Union over the past two years, more than ten years have been done in the construction of a real economic and monetary union. But the future is not in itself given to us; it requires continuous efforts for the common good, efforts for the spiritual and material well-being of all citizens. In this spirit, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, we express our deep conviction and call upon all of us, the whole of Slovenian politics, to make a real effort to do something good for our children, for all Slovenian children, for their future, and not to forget our ancestors, who have created the foundations of our present. About this is how Mrs Nataša Goršek Mencin, Head of Representation of the European Commission in the Republic of Slovenia, reflected on yesterday's address on European Day. Today, we are wiser, and we know that it is worth the effort, for example at night sessions, to listen to unions and negotiate for more than a hundred and fifty hours to listen to the opposition. In the New Slovenia Group, we also hope that opposition, unions and social partners will think similarly about government and coalition. We Slovenians have always been able to step together in historic times, today's moment is challenging and the future depends on our behaviour today. The 2012 balance of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which we are considering, did not want this coalition, nor was it a balance that reduces the expenditure side of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012, but is necessary and is the only way. We did not want a law to balance public finances, but it is a necessary and only way we see it. We wanted to start implementing our programme, the coalition contract, the Slovenia Treaty 2012-2015 as soon as possible in the early 1990s, since the five-party coalition took responsibility for the leadership of the country. The main reason for the necessity of adopting the 2012 budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia is the unrealised planned expenditure and the pre-optimistic estimated revenue of the adopted budget of the Republic of Slovenia for this year, which was adopted in November 2010. In the 2012 adopted budget, the revenue of the State budget for 2012 was estimated at EUR 8 000 695 million, and the 2012 revised revenue estimate based on Umar's spring forecast of the economic trends in March 2012 and the proposed tax legislation was only EUR 7 000 942 million, which is approximately at the level of realised revenue in 2007. In the 2012 budget adopted, total budget expenditure was planned at a total of EUR 10 000 118 million. The budget deficit for 2012 was estimated at EUR 1 000 423 million, or 3.6% of the gross domestic product forecast for 2012. At the current estimated 2012 budget revenue, the planned expenditure in the 2012 budget would amount to more than EUR 2 000 200 million, or more than 6 % of gross domestic product. The goal of the Government for 2012 is to achieve a reduction in the deficit of the State budget in 2012 to 3% of the gross domestic product by means of the rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to achieve this objective, the 2012 state budget balance should reduce the total budget expenditure to around EUR 9 000 14 million, or EUR 104 million less than the budget. The increased indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia over the past years and the worsening conditions of indebtedness in international and domestic financial markets have also been added to the weaker forecasts in GDP growth estimates. As a result of past, excessive country deficits exceeding 3% of gross domestic product, an excessive budgetary deficit procedure has been introduced for Slovenia by the European Commission. In accordance with the excessive budgetary deficit procedure, Slovenia must reduce the deficit of the wider sector by the following year, i.e. by 2013 below 3 % of GDP. An additional challenge in the preparation of the budget rebalancing is and will be the reorganisation of the Ministry and Government services in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Act and the State Administration Act. Today, the Republic of Slovenia has the smallest government since we live in a single country. The effects will not only be direct positive financial in nature, but will also be positive in terms of reducing, shortening and simplifying bureaucratic procedures that have brought almost total blockade in some segments. In drawing up the proposal, the 2012 budget rebalancing expenditure was followed by the government's main objective for this year in order to achieve a reduction in the deficit of the State budget in 2012 to 3% of gross domestic product. In order to achieve this objective, the 2012 state budget rebalancing should reduce the total budget expenditure to around €9014 million, a decrease of €349 million in 2011 and a reduction of €104 million in 2012, according to the 2012 budget adopted. From today's perspective, it seems completely incomprehensible that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia with €1.4 billion has been adopted here in this house for 2012. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is worth recalling the debate on the Committee on Agriculture, where one of my fellow Members correctly observed that Slovenian farmers had stayed through the centuries, through all the different socio-political systems, irrespective of the state budgets that were sometimes more, sometimes less favourable to them. But I added and repeat, indeed, the Slovenian farmer stood still also and especially because he never excelled greed because he knew that he could only spend as much as he did, or in other words, because the Slovenian farmer always practiced a golden fiscal rule that limited his spending according to the summer. It may not have been written on the front of the farm, but it is a good, practical and only reasonable example, which should also be taken into account by Slovenian policy. Slovenia has been moving away from the strategic objectives of economic development and the well-being of the population in recent years. The decline in economic activity in Slovenia since the beginning of the economic crisis has been one of the largest in the European Union, which has pushed us from 91% to 85% of the average economic development of the members of the European Union, measured in gross domestic product per capita by purchasing power in 2010. However, further increases in the development gap continued in 2011. Despite measures aimed at mitigating the impact of the economic crisis on the social situation of the population, the economic situation has led to a reduction in the available income and thus a deterioration in the material well-being of the population. The economic and social situation requires a sustainable consolidation of public finances and a solid foundation for reviving economic activity, which will be more resistant to shocks and will enable jobs to be created. In New Slovenia, we claim that without consolidation, without balancing public finances, there will simply be no economic growth, so it is also quite understandable that the Slovenian economy supports the government and coalition in its efforts to balance public finances. Without structural adjustments, the development backlog will deepen and the tightening of the labour market will continue for longer, reducing the quality of life. The measures should therefore focus primarily on, firstly, the consolidation of public finances, secondly, the regulation of the financial sector and thirdly, the adjustment of the social protection system, the pension and health system, the system of long-term care and ways of delivering public services, which will, in financial and demographically modified circumstances, maintain the accessibility of public services, material standards and the quality of life at least at the current level. After economic development since 2008, Slovenia has been moving away from the average of the European Union countries, which it was already lagging behind in 2010 more than at the start of the implementation of the 2005 Slovenian Development Strategy. In recent years in Slovenia there has been a shift from achieving the central economic objective of the strategy for the development of Slovenia – to becoming an average European Union country by 2013, which will not only be temporary in nature. The reasons why, after a severe fall in gross domestic product at the beginning of the crisis, there was no more serious economic recovery, mainly from the domestic environment. The current economic and social situation dictates the earliest sustainable consolidation of public finances, the recovery of economic activity and the improvement of the labour market situation. Your Honor! Slovenia is an important member of the European Union. We are not a closed state or a closed economy, we are a country that wants to build a stable socio-market economy. Therefore, it is important that we send signals today, or at this time, abroad. For the past two years, we have been telling the truth and making false promises to balance public finances. And we didn't, even though we tried. We have received the lesson and I am sure that there is today a willingness in Slovenia to limit public spending. I am afraid that the referendums and sentences, before anything happens, do not affect the rise in Slovenia's credit ratings. The former Member and Minister Lahovnik cautions that reckless political moves and events such as the sentence will increase the cost of indebtedness, which will needlessly be reflected in the even higher interest costs that will be paid for public debt in the future. If this government package of measures in the referendum is rejected, we will send a clear message abroad that Slovenia is not prepared to limit public spending. Slovenia is still in a position to take action in time and avoid the Greek scenario. The blackest scenario that can happen in the coming months is that when the state tries again to issue bonds on international markets to cover part of the past debt, no one will be willing to buy these bonds due to high risk. At that moment, we will find ourselves in the scenario where Greece is today. The New Slovenia Group will support the 2012 budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the previous amendments signed by us. Saving measures, which are inevitable for balancing public finances, are not simple, but we hope to look everyone in the eye and explain their urgency. The standard we've been used to right now, and hopefully only temporarily, is no longer possible. We can't spend any more than we produce. With sobriety and patience, that must be understandable. It is for the patience of citizens and citizens from this city that I am asking. It's not easy, and we have everyone in mind when we decide on austerity measures. All this, in order to ensure a better and stable future for all, especially the generations that are coming. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. On behalf of the Italian and Hungarian national groups, László Göncz has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! To begin with, from the point of view of indigenous national communities, we are pleased with the part of the proposal for a rebalancing that directly relates to the functioning of our organisation and institutions. The Government has done the right thing and respects the principle that in the field of vulnerable groups such as the Hungarian and Italian communities, any intervention would have irreparable consequences or damage in terms of maintaining the development of this community. As regards the position of our Group on the overall budget balance, I must point out that we have tried to form an assessment with a slightly broader model angle. Nevertheless, I will not waste my word on the arguments that favour a reduction in the expenditure side of the budget, given the imbalances that have emerged in the last period. We must accept the fact that the first urgent intervention in the process of balancing the budget is a reasonable reduction in the expenditure side. With regard to the selection of falling items, it is likely that views and views are very different and I am not just referring to client aspects and differences. We hope that most of the cuts in certain items, if we also take into account coordination with the social partners, are to the greatest extent reasonable and rational. Accordingly, our support for the proposed budget rebalancing, including the amendments supported by the committee responsible, will also go. At the same time, we must stress that we would like to see measures in favour of a positive shift in economic growth even more intensive at this stage. Personally, I would not fully limit myself to measures in the area of value added tax raising, but I hope that the government has appropriate plans in this regard as regards the situation. We believe that, in addition to the laws already adopted, it is necessary to take an even more complex and priority approach as soon as possible to the preparation of investment programmes mainly in the area of infrastructure projects and the regulation of healthy cores of economic activity, which will indirectly have a significant impact on the revenue side of the budget. I am convinced that there are still reserves in this area, as regards political activity, without directly interfering with the direction of economic policy. From the point of view of citizens' confidence in the rule of law and also in the current political structure, including the opposition, an even more intensive upgrade of legislation will be necessary, which will specifically prevent and effectively sanction all possible abuses of various Taiwanese, clientistic and other groups and more transparent and in terms of overall social interest, affect the fairer functioning of financial institutions. As I have pointed out in the introduction, the proposed budget rebalancing does not directly affect the functioning of national community organisations and institutions, which is important and is also exemplary in terms of the wider European perspective. Unfortunately, however, problems also exist and remain in this area and will need to be thoroughly examined and gradually resolved in the future, in part within the budget for the following year. Unfortunately, in the context of the linear reduction of the budget of the former Ministry of Culture, the cultural activity of indigenous national communities suffered a relatively large contraction last year, which has profoundly cut into national activities and caused a number of negative phenomena that will need to be remedied as soon as possible. There are also a number of open issues in the field of national media, both in Italy and in the Hungarian community. In the case of national RTV programmes, the systemic problem is that the proportion of resources from the State budget, which together with the subscription funds enables the preparation and implementation of programmes, is neither specifically nor correctly determined on the basis of substantive arguments, but is always the result of political coordination, which is somehow wrong. In our view, we should find a long-term solution in the proposed general law on indigenous national communities. Problems of a different nature also occur constantly in the case of the only Hungarian diary. There are also several partial problems in the Italian community, including problems in financing institutions, which also have their headquarters in the Republic of Croatia for the needs of communities living in Slovenia. Let me also mention the warning that representatives of national community organisations have consistently stressed. Due to the structure and proportion of members of indigenous national communities who, to a certain extent, are employed in public institutions of a national character or services where knowledge of the Italian and Hungarian languages is conditioned, reduced resources in certain areas are particularly affected and burdensome in relation to measures aimed at balancing public finances. As a result, despite the understandable approach taken by the Government and other national authorities, members of national communities are in an additionally difficult situation. In Prekmurje, where the standard and social level are strong below the Slovenian average, the situation is particularly difficult. Let me conclude by noting that the preparation and adoption of the budget and the rebalancing is always a difficult task, which needs to be tackled with particular sensitivity from the point of view of vulnerable national communities. In this case, at least this is how we find out, the government is largely in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u21	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Positive Slovenia, he shall have the word mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u22	Dear Vice President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen! In Positive Slovenia we are protesting the way we work in the National Assembly as we receive it this week. And it's certainly not a problem in quantity, it's a problem in the way it works. Mr President of the National Assembly, who unfortunately is not with us, you are a lawyer, a doctor of legal science, and in this week you have allowed legally unacceptable things to happen, and I have said this very nicely. The adoption of a law which has received such an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, as was the case in the case of the Public Finance Balance Act, is a disgrace to the National Assembly. But, dear fellows, for you, all this is lawful and proper. About a month ago, in big words, you rejected laws where half the articles should be amended. This is supposed to be unacceptable, because this amount of amendments means that the marriage is incomplete, you taught us. Now that you've taken over the government, it's completely normal. Moreover, parliamentary practice gives you such rights, you say, even though you know this is not true. Your mega marriage needed an amendment, so to speak, to every article, and that is no longer unacceptable to you. Unfortunately, your way is that when I run the country, it is forgiving when it is guided by someone else, and it is necessary to destroy everything that comes in our way, regardless of the damage the country suffers, that in all the history of our country such a law and such a balance the Members have not yet had before them. On the rebalancing you have tabled an amendment to the coalition, which said somehow: "We take on all programmes and we give on all programmes, we just don't know how many." And you, President-in-Office, Mr Virant, have accepted this as an appropriate amendment. Of course, then you withdrew this amendment to our pressure, but the mistake was allowed and made. And you allowed that, Mr. President. Clearly, there are no obstacles and no limits to respect for the rule of law, you are introducing unacceptable parliamentary practice, ladies and gentlemen. And despite all these irregularities, confusion and inadmissible legal errors, we Members of Positive Slovenia have worked constructively on all committees and have tried to convince you that this path is not the right one. The measures you have drawn up are destroying our social state, and I believe that we all know that the social state is not just a concern for those who cannot take care of themselves is much, much more. Europe is that whip that ordered us all what you are doing today, so you say. We think completely differently. Not because of Europe, but because of us, public finances need to be put in order, the question is how. Completely different than you did, you'd have done it to me. According to our assessment, consolidation needs to be done on both sides, on both sides, on the cost and on the income side, and above all on the condition of our economy. That your path is not right, the statements of eminent global economists and the end of European politicians also show that in June, the programme to save money with the growth programme is expected to be adopted. And when Europe says that we need to give more for investments that promote economic growth, you will do so without question, because this is what Europe requires. Isn't that what we've been telling you for two months?Oh, my God! When you change things to Europe's will, look what we've been trying to tell you. And what we've been trying to tell you for two months. Saving is certainly necessary, but saving should be done with a little greater sense or a little more intelligence. When you started talking about saving 800 million euros, I warned you repeatedly that these would be painful cuts into people's rights. Of course, you explained to me that you would reduce material costs and rationalize public procurement, and this is it. And public spending will be 800 million less. Of course I don't know what I'm saying. Today it turns out that, unfortunately for our citizens, I was quite right. Family and children are your main target of this savings package, which is reflected in the balance sheet this year. Children are 20% of our population and 100% of our future, they say. You've dealt with them from the very beginning, with maternity benefits, and all the way to university education. While we want to be a society of knowledge, at least I hope that this is still our goal, you are destroying our universities, public universities. What makes you think that's a good thing?Oh, my God! When applying free kindergarten, you were full of mouths about a good and smart family policy and how greater involvement of children in kindergartens will help improve their development. You were right about that part. The involvement of children in kindergarten has increased, which is good for us and our society. But look at the fraction, after four years, you wanted this measure simply to be abolished. The same was true of the free diet of the students. Before the 2008 elections, you've introduced it, today you're shutting it down. And if we think about it, with the measures proposed, you are correcting a lot of your decisions from the previous term. These proposed measures represent your new family policy. Despite the fact that some of the measures in this family policy are of an intervention nature, the whole period of your life should apply. Dear colleagues and colleagues! What you're doing today is your new family policy. You may not like it, you may want it to be different, but you do it, and that's the fact. For two months, we want to convince you that we need to take measures on both sides of the budget – expenditure and income, and even more so with higher economic growth. Most of the countries that are more developed than we are have done so. Why do you always compare us with the Baltic countries and their actions? Shall this be our example?Oh, my God! Their standard and their rights, I hope not, and that the Prime Minister of Slovenia will also begin to compare with better and more developed than us and not worse or less developed. If you want development and more prosperity for our people, you need to set different goals than yours. For two months, we are telling you that the consolidation of public finances must take place by 2016, and we do not understand why you have to intervene so radically in the lives of our people in 2012 if our goal is to reduce the deficit below 3% in 2013. Last year, the country's deficit was 6,4 % of gross domestic product, but except for so-called financial transactions, the recapitalisations that will not be available this year following your assurances were 5,1 % of the deficit in 2011. Why am I bringing this up? Because that's basically what we need to lower. This means about 1% per year if we want to get below 3% in 2013 and have a flat budget in 2016. 1% of GDP is 350 million euros and not 800 million, which is what you want to take from our people. It is absolutely unnecessary for you to say that we are in Positive Slovenia against everything that this government proposes and that we have no idea how to solve the public financial problem. We told you everything and gave you a lot of ideas. But we hope you don't expect us to do that. Today, we deal with or correct past mistakes. The big part of the situation in our country is the crisis, the European crisis if you want. But there are many things we could have done differently in the past. In the last mandate of Pahor, the crisis was first resolved with financial incentives and as many investments as possible, and nothing or little has been done to reduce unnecessary costs. Today we even find that these financial incentives, which have created our deficits, have not produced the desired results. Deficiencies and debts, of course, are here. In the 2004-2008 mandate, this is the mandate of the previous Janša government, we have reduced taxes. This has not been adequately adjusted by the expenditure side of the budget. At that time, at 7% of economic growth, even with the significantly reduced fiscal capacity of the country, it was possible to fund the same amount of expenditure, even higher, since even new rights were introduced in your previous mandate when taxes were reduced: free kindergarten, free nutrition and – the biggest blow to public finances – pay reform. Today, with substantially lower revenues due to the decline in economic activity, of course, this cannot be done. And we are where we are, and action is urgently needed. We don't deny it. But we deny you the path you set for yourself. An agreement on measures that are certainly structural in nature and have long-term implications for our society needs to be made on time, as these are major social changes. Do not force your head through the wall with the pretext that Europe will already show us how and what, and it will send us its officers who will do this ugly work instead of you. If people do not take this punishment, these radical measures, another punishment follows. It's a VAT hike, according to yours. In any event, they must be punished, for things that are not people's faults, but for the policies so far, at least the last two governments, and for the last term also the biggest opposition SDS parties with calls and assistance in rejecting reforms. With the proposed changes, we are interfering with our social system to the very roots. All right, if you think that's right, at least try to explain to us and people what good it is for our country that your actions or savings mean at all costs. What does it mean for our children, our families, great families, children with special needs, pensioners? That your actions bring nothing good, they show the public financial projections that we have received. We've received projections without your actions and your actions. And you will not believe that public finances are equal to the euro by 2015 through measures and without measures. How can you explain to us that your actions have a positive impact on our economic activity if this is not true according to your own data? The balance we have before us has some €150 to €200 million of holes on the expenditure side. You probably don't remember anything like that when you've been here for 20 years. You accept a document that has 200 million under-planned expenditure for the payment of legal obligations and salaries. All of this will be resolved by redistribution, you say, when you have always advocated that the reallocation in the state budget simply be abolished. Again one of your many when you were saying something, and today you are doing something completely different. In Positive Slovenia we tried to show you that how you do it is wrong. We have proposed a series of solutions that have not been taken into account. But we have to admit, at least one of them, a little bit, but you've taken it into account. You've obviously seen that your actions are too radical and you've minimally changed them. But they're still a big hit for our people and our team. Perhaps, respected colleagues in the coalition, you find it hard to believe that in Positive Slovenia we want our country well, even if you are in power and not us. I think you can imagine for yourself how well your response would have been if our government had prepared such a set of measures and procedures in the National Assembly as you are taking them. We probably wouldn't be discussing measures, but just replacing the government, the president of the National Assembly, the early elections and more. And you don't have to worry because we wouldn't, and we'll never do what you do. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We suggest you stop the rebalancing process, cover and fill that 200 million hole and bring it back to the state. That would be the only thing right. Accepting such a balance is irresponsible. Finally, I would just like to stress once again that in Positive Slovenia we are protesting against such a way of working in our temple of democracy. If this national council is still here. We are protesting the destruction of our social and legal state. On behalf of the people, colleagues and colleagues, please reconsider what you are doing with our country and our people before voting on the measures and the balance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and on its behalf mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u24	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! The economic, financial, social situation in the country is unusual, this is indicated by data. Data on the deficit of a country which, as mentioned, was 6,4 % of the gross social product, the Maastricht criteria required 3 %. The debt situation, particularly the debt trends, particularly the fact that public debt has actually increased over the last three years from around €8 billion to €17 billion and that interest has increased to 750 million this year. This, of course, means that these interests will be paid by future generations. It is not moral of our generation to impose this obligation on future generations. We all know that, and this is where we have to stop blinding ourselves. It is also not moral, of course, to increase these interest rates not to 700 million, but to more, more and more if we continue to pursue such a policy. And of course, we all know what a good master does. The good master operates so that his expenditure adjusts to his income, and this country, especially in the last period and throughout the whole period, here we can talk about the difference of one or two years, has not done so. And we know what debt means. Indebtedness means that guarantees must be given for this debt. And if we don't repay the debts, then the guarantees will be realized. Those who do not repay his debts will, of course, take over those guarantees. These guarantees may vary. They may be property, may be part of the territory and may also mean a partial loss of sovereignty in the country. Debt means that the sovereignty of the state is lost. These are examples from Latin America, these are examples from Africa, and these have recently been examples from Europe. In other words, fiscal rule does not mean a loss of sovereignty, but further debt means a loss of sovereignty. This budget rebalancing that we have on the table today is the first important step in changing the trend and not going in that direction. It means that we must first align public spending with what we actually create. If we do not do so, the trends in deficits, spending will continue and so on. And that's the key question today. If we're talking about a savings programme today, it's not my personal opinion that it's a savings program. This is a program that aligns consumption with what was created. We save when we have something more. When we make more money, we put what we don't spend on a savings account. But if we're spending less than what we're actually creating, that, of course, means reducing consumption. This needs to be included in this budget, which actually means that if this budget is adopted – and I strongly believe that it will be adopted – that the direction of development will change. And this is one of the first successes, if you want, for all of us, that the state will come into a state, that the ratings will stop falling, that they will at least stop and that on this basis development can also begin, that interest will be reduced, that the conditions for the economy will be more competitive and that, in the end, citizens and citizens will also be more prosperous. In addition to these measures, other measures and other important steps are needed, not only in the area of public finances, including in the area of the financial system, in the area of banking, in the field of limiting the so-called credit crunch. Strong banks need to be set up. We also need competitiveness measures, further action in the area of legal certainty. The basis of the rebalancing is therefore a partial adjustment in consumption and this partial adjustment in consumption is also, I will say, accompanied by certain revenue measures, in particular in the area of additional taxation of so-called luxury. And it is not true that now all yachts will sail to Croatia due to additional taxation, because in the meantime Croatia has strongly raised the taxation of yachts and now the question is, of course, where will these yachts actually go. And it is not true that this is an inappropriate measure. And it is not true that as a result of this, more cars will be bought for leasing, as leasing is also taxed by the extra taxation of large cars. On the income side, the measures will be prepared, including measures that will tax dividends more, interest that will tax capital gains more, large real estates that are not used for business purposes. Legislation in the field of tax procedure and in the field of tax procedure will also change, in particular, in the case that those who conceal taxes that do not pay taxes do not pay taxes for workers who do not pay contributions to workers will also be publicly appointed, publicly presented and punished. Finally, an extreme measure is also envisaged, and this is supposed to be an increase in VAT. This is a measure which, in my view, is extremely negative. And I'll tell you why he's negative. This measure has already been proposed by some other parties since the beginning and think that by raising VAT it can easily solve the crisis, increase income and solve the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, with the VAT rise, we will tax the poorest, because the poorest spend all their income on the purchase of goods, those who are taxed at 8.5% today, and those who are 20%. 80% by 20%. And raising just one rate does not mean that the poor only buy products that are taxed at a lower rate. We all buy food today: those who are less rich, richer, poorer, poorer, poorer. So of course that's not true. Second, there will be an immediate increase in prices, inflation will increase and the non-competitiveness of domestic supply will increase. And there's something else that's true. This tax is immoral because, in a hidden, demeaning way, it mainly taxes those who have the least today. Why? Because he's hidden in the price and you can't see him. And merchants manipulate him with various discounts. By announcement – see ads: Today we sell without VAT and so on. Thus, the consumer does not know how much he is actually taxed. It's a means of manipulating consumers if you're looking from a moral point of view. And this is an unfair tax, this is the most unjust tax known today by tax theory because the consumer does not know when it is actually taxed. But every step is taxed! Every word is taxed, one way or another. That is why this solution is an extreme case. We can also talk about this here – and we welcome this in the Slovenian Democratic Party – that there has been a close agreement with the social partners, particularly the unions. This also gives this balance of budget and accompanying law great symbolic importance. It's possible to make a deal. It's not true you can't make a deal with the unions. And Janša's government agreed in 2006 and 2007 and also signed an agreement with the unions on social and social and economic policy. And now we're just as close to signing it. This budget balance and this special law are accompanied by the fact that coordination between the government and the social partners will actually take place. On several occasions, the question has been asked whether action must be taken now and now. Yes, the situation is such that action must actually be taken now. I believe that this is the time to act. Extreme time in terms of economic trends, financial and social trends. If we didn't act, we'd all lose the social state. Failure or status quo would then mean actual tyranny. And it has not acted in our country for a long time also because of elections, including the crisis, political and economic. This is why it is a crucial time for action to actually take place. The next question raised here is when we talk about economic growth, that our country raises economic growth, that it creates jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, the role of the state is to create the conditions for the economy to create jobs, to be competitive, to come to foreign and domestic capital, to start investing. The country itself, except what it itself employs in the public sector, cannot create any more jobs. And the public sector is included in the gross social product of around 15%, 85% of the country's gross social product creates a real sector, that is the economy. So to expect the state to solve everything is absurd. Perhaps there were such countries once 30, 40 years ago that said we would take care of all the citizens. However, such countries are no longer in Europe today, and there may be other countries in the world, and they do not care about citizens. That is to say, if we do not act today, there will be no social state for anyone. The goal of this government and the goal of each government is to increase prosperity for people, but this prosperity cannot grow evenly, but for various reasons, both domestic and foreign, the trend can reverse and then this trend is negative. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the budget rebalancing and expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take further steps towards improving the conditions of management, ensuring greater legal certainty and also towards greater investment in Slovenia. And they're going to invest in entrepreneurs. It's not the country that's the smartest to know what, how, where to invest. State officials are not smarter to actually grant a subsidy in this and this company, in this and this activity or in this industry. Entrepreneurs are the ones who will create that will increase the prosperity that will increase the gross social product. The role of the State is historically very large in the current period, different countries, even if we look at it comparatively, much larger than it has been in the past. However, the role of the State is not entrepreneurship, but the role of the State is to create conditions for entrepreneurship. And this budget balance is a signal to entrepreneurs, a signal to international financial institutions that things change and change for the better in Slovenia. And that will bring greater prosperity to the people. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this budget balance as well as the accompanying law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the individual parts of the proposal for a state budget rebalancing. In doing so, let me remind you that, as an individual part of the budget, the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing, a specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal and a plan for the development programmes, and we will discuss each one separately. We are now moving on to the general part of the draft budget rebalancing proposal, and I assume that there is an interest in the debate, so I am opening up the application. I'm asking you to sign up. Sixteen panellists applied for the application. The first of these is Mr Franz Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to the ministers and ministers and, of course, also to you, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! It's just the way it is in this country. If someone comes with a proposal, the other side opposes it. And that's what we've been taught, at least for those of us who have been sitting in this national council for a few years. It would be better and better if we actually thought that at this point and now something concrete had to be prepared so that we would not go to the abyss. The situation we're in is far from pink. Today we are not talking about cuts to the revenue side of the budget because we have the resources in stock. Today we're talking about incisions in an empty place where we don't have them. Even though we will save a few hundred million dollars with cuts, we will still have a billion left, and for this billion we will need to take the appropriate credit to make the budget even, I think, for 2012. The next item will discuss the balance of public finances. We are already talking about the balance of the budget and we are talking about the balance of public finances. In the parliamentary group and I myself have participated, as far as possible and given, and my abilities have been, in designing this balance at various interviews and meetings. The Group of Members has also participated, and we are convinced that the balance in the proposed form must be accepted. Of course, some will object, but I am sure that most of us will. I must admit to myself that I am not satisfied with all the measures contained in the budget's balance sheet because it is a reduction. It would be significantly easier and better if we talked about an increase in the 2012 budget rebalancing. But unfortunately it's what it is, and all the cuts are always painful. The measures proposed by the government or coalition are necessary because it has finally set the time for sobriety, that we cannot simply spend more than we create, because we will destroy not only our children's future but also our grandchildren and grandchildren. Everything needs to be done this year and next year to enable the economy to grow again. Today, we have already heard in the explanations of the parliamentary groups how we need to increase the revenue side and how we can do so in principle. You know, words can be simple, and actions are very complicated. If we do not first stifle public spending, we cannot talk about being able to go to the other side immediately and increase the revenue side of the budget. The pensioner population, which our party particularly advocates in the National Assembly, has earned its pension fairly and has been sharing the fate of intervention laws for a third year, thus effectively reducing their earned and not only their paid pension. This is a population that no longer has time, because people are 75 years old and over. In some ways, however, they understand that in this country as it has been so far, it cannot go any further. In the course of the measures, we have also protected the socially weak with the balance of the budget for this year, and this will also be our concern for the future. Pensions for which contributions have been paid must, however, maintain their real value, otherwise let us destroy the meaning and purpose of the supplementary pension system. However, given that I am also the president of the Defence Committee, I would like to draw attention to some things. In this area we have actually come under 1.25% of gross domestic product for defence and protection purposes. This is, in my opinion, the extreme level at which we can combine the defence system as well as the protection and rescue system. We have a very well-organised, trained and prepared system of people working in this system in the event of major accidents. As far as the defence is concerned, I must remember that the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia decided at the referendum that we would enter international integration. In fact, we have undertaken to train and equip our defence forces with our resources so that these defence forces can also participate in international missions. If we go below this percentage, with respect, including representatives of the Government, under this percentage 1.25, the next year of the 2013 budget will not be personally supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u28	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished ministerial assembly, a nice greeting from my side, a nice greeting from Slovenian Gorica, where I come from as a Member! I can say that in those days when the proposal for a budget rebalancing was coming, I was very much in the field, I was in the organizations in our region, I was among the people, I was among the people at social risk, I was among the pensioners, especially among the students, one day I know that I was with the Rector of the University of Maribor, in many colleges where we talked about the systemic solutions to this crisis. Look, in the debates on all the committees where we met, where the concerns went, where the cramps went, why not cut, why not increase the revenue side, why just spend money, why we use rhetoric, why this government will somehow dismantle our social state, which we've been building for years and years, why we literally end the army and stuff like that, I always ask with one clear eye, why I'm going to vote here, why I'm going to vote here against what people whose direct representative I am in Parliament have told me somehow, what I'm going to do is trust my problems, problems and how I'm going to decide. The things they trusted me with were the following: people, entrepreneurs who have done a lot, who have been successful entrepreneurs for 20 years, today only say in the following terminology: "Messenger Breznik, we can no longer, we cannot as a towing horse of this burden any more, we are no longer competitive compared with the Austrians who have an inappropriately expensive labour force due to some unsuccessful fiscal policy." The main problem is non-competitiveness. On the other hand, it's a series of laws. With regard to the Labour Relations Act, we are talking about flexible labour policies, which the Austrians have, and where each of these employers I have met has faced a number of problems. He's talking about getting a job and thinking 15 times about who he's going to hire and why he's going to hire him, when he loses this job, or he's going to be interrupted, or it's some kind of job for a while, he's going to find it hard to forgive these people. Austria has been implementing this policy for many years. When a contract for a job is concluded with a smaller entrepreneur, he may at the moment hire his employees when this deal is terminated, perhaps it is just for a period of time that is somehow regulated, this worker goes to the employment agency normally and there waits for some better times. Above all, it is a month-to-month transfer to time, and often it is seasonal. And these things are very good, some 20 kilometers away from where I come from, they work. When I went to high school, they gave me new directions. I think that our education is one of the basic problems, not just education, but the whole thought of our school system is somehow no longer working well. We have solid elementary schools, we have solid high schools, we have solid colleges. Most of the students I meet tell me the same thing all the time: "In postgraduate studies, professors can't tell us anything anymore." I don't know why you have to go to postgraduate school because there's nothing going on there anymore. The same professors explain the same thing to me as they did in my undergraduate." I am talking about the content that we should give, I am talking about the last level of education for which we are paying immeasurable funds and for which society, those who today earn 400, 500 and 600 euros, expects solutions that will be integrated into our products, which will give us this incredible advantage over other countries in this incredibly competitive time or in some competitive environment. And education is personally one of the biggest problems of Slovenian modern society. We're talking about some inflation of the entire school system, I'm talking mainly about the higher education system, where it's happened that colleges are today generators of structural unemployment in our places. You're talking about the revenue side today. Tell me which projects the government should start at this point, that we will save at least 50,000, 60,000 unemployed, who have lost their jobs in the last two, three years. What projects? With what? With graduated philosophers, economists, lawyers, historians? Who's going to solve our problems? What's gonna happen? We will be in debt for a billion, 2 billion at the expense of future generations, we will pay 400 million interest again, and we will save the unemployment of central Bosnia, Kosovo, perhaps even Slovakia will no longer come to our country because they are no longer paid for it. And here's our basic problem. We are talking about the structural problems of Slovenian modern society. And here's the problem why this government doesn't immediately implement measures to raise the revenue side. I think that the basic problem is and that the basic solution is exactly what this government has started: consolidating public finances. In the first phase, I am talking about financial institutions, credit houses: "Dear institutions in the world, look, Slovenian policy is united at this moment. We are aware, we have overlooked, we are going at this point in the development phase, which will encourage the consolidation of public finances in the first phase, in the second phase we will give a clear signal to all institutions, entrepreneurs and all other segments in the wider European region that we are a great partner, in which it is worth investing, that we have a good tax policy, that we have a flexible workforce." And that's the basic signal. Here I see the solution of this country – consolidation of public finances. There is no other alternative at this time, it is a basic and key concept. And the balance of the budget, which some are rejecting with the obvious that it is premature, that it is perfect, of course, the time today is not our ally, we are losing an incredible advantage over the other countries, which were in no way comparable to our country five years ago. To compare ourselves today with the Slovaks, Czechs, Hungarians, is embarrassing to me as a Slovenian. We were a former country, I can say, for 250 years we had the image of a country when some say that we were Habsburg shepherds, but we grew up in some incredible environment where all moral and ethical values were also high. Unfortunately, at the expense of the Austrians and Germans and all others, we have lost those elites that have raised Austria and Germany since 1955. Unfortunately, we have lost them, and now we are laying all the foundations for a new one. And here I see that, above all, those who are the biggest opponents of the budget rebalancing, that you are aware of this, that we are aware of the fact that we have most of the structural problems that we once inherited, I have recently heard that in the twelve years we have given 660 million euros only for fighter pensions that have never been paid into a fund or budget, but were granted to a beneficiary under a certain law in 1964. I agree with the fighters, but, look, all this burden is on this company today. All this burden, all this ballast is on some entrepreneurs and some economic operators that we still have here in the middle of this beautiful country. And in the midst of a country that has such biodiversity in which you can come from the Alpine world within two hours to the Mediterranean world, which has an incredible geostrategic position, an incredibly good historical position to fail us, we need to ask ourselves and step on the real ground. And the balance of the budget, the introduction of the fiscal rule, the golden rule, the 148th Article of the Constitution, are two basic concepts that are quite simple. We're here, we're here, we're here, we're here, look at us, and that means the biggest signal for all those who want to invest in Slovenia. I know a lot of investors. We would like to invest in Lipica, in Glass Rogaška, we could invest in a number of companies that I find interesting. But they cannot invest in a country where politics is fighting, left and right, where some day-to-day policy is mixing with some reality. We always have to ask ourselves who we are, what we are, what we want. Of course, in this crisis is also the question of who I am, what I am or what I can possibly do more than sit in the first restaurant and say that nothing is worth it, everything is without connection, I will retire, the state is obliged to give me everything, all social policy. On who? On account of your neighbor, my friend, I don't know who. And here is the question for Slovenian modern society right at this point. Whether we have overlooked or are moving forward, we will take sides with Portugal, Greece and the other countries. So we stepped down from the saddle. In the following stages, I believe that Europe will be divided into two parts: a part that is responsible, which has an incredible responsibility to the whole of which the rules of the Sunt servand pact are in place, or you will get out of this. This is likely to follow, not to say expulsion from monetary work, but probably from another sanction. And we can only say one thing. All those who read outside Cankar's Hlavce today can say, "Look, we're not servants, we're one of the broader social interlocutors in this European community, and I think in the very steps that the government is doing today, we can do it." We are a small economy, extremely export-oriented, more than 70% of exports record our economy, and I believe I am a great optimist that in a few years we can succeed an incredible breakthrough into those most developed Western countries. We can do this, we have an incredible nature, an incredibly good people who are perhaps a little demotivated at the moment. I can see for sure the first solution here. And all those who doubt this today would once again call for us to step together so that we do not go on a day-to-day policy, some political prestige, some statements that may be in the newspapers in the first place tomorrow, but will not bring to our people, our citizens, our wider community a fundamental goal that we have. This goal must be a blessing for all Slovenians, not just those who have now been privileged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u30	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Council of Ministers, welcome! Before today's discussion on the budget rebalancing, I was asked by journalists in the hallways, what is the balance anyway. I would say, according to Slovenian, that this is a correction of the existing budget. Any good master knows that as much as he creates in a year, he can spend so much in some way. And this is how the state should behave. We all want more, we all want more for kindergartens, more for schools, more for development, more for economic incentives, we all want it, even in coalitions. But the fact is, we can just give as much as we can collect. In some ways, however, the state can raise money into its own budget. One option is, which the opposition is very much talking about, raising taxes, for example raising VAT. This is relatively simple, even fast. Another option is to increase our revenue in the budget to create new jobs. Of course, these new jobs cannot be created with words. We are no longer living in a time of socialism, when some party secretary said that from tomorrow he would be, for example, at the Titan Stone Factory, 100 more jobs. And they were. It did not matter whether these jobs were needed or not. That's the way it was done, but in these days we don't live anymore. The logic is that the more jobs there are, the more he will pay in the budget. But today, things are just the other way around. Instead of putting people into the budget when they are employed, the state is still giving them social support. If I touch, for example, the first option the opposition is talking about, it is an increase in taxes and an increase in VAT. In recent years, we have spent 2 billion euros more. This year we will spend even one billion euros more and more than we will collect in the budget. Calculations exist that if we raise value added tax for one percentage point, this would mean €120 million more. And if you follow me, one billion 120 million, that would mean that this hole would be filled with a VAT hike, so that this tax should be raised by 8%. Can you imagine? From current 20 to 28 percentage points. I don't know who could do it. And another thing to be pointed out about this is the so-called Laffer curve. The economists will know that very well. For my fellow Members, I have drawn up a graph where it is very good to see that raising taxes does not necessarily mean more revenue in the budget. When we reach a certain threshold, even if we are increasing taxes, the revenue in the budget is falling. You know, higher than taxes, the more people avoid paying taxes. If in this case it is not just an economic theory, I can substantiate this implementation with today's financial article, which has the title, maybe it flies to the opposition, especially to them, do not break it by raising the VAT. We have a concrete case in Spain when they raised VAT and the revenue in the budget went down. By raising VAT in some way we can alleviate the symptoms of the disease in the short term. Unfortunately, we do not eliminate the cause of the disease. After all, this means that our economy will still be sick if we just burden and burden it with new taxes. What did this coalition decide? This is a conceptual difference. The opposition is more inclined to raise taxes, we are trying to create better economic conditions. And what does it take to do? This is widely known, I am only stressing once again, for the first time, the tax burden and administrative burden on the entire Slovenian economic system should be lifted. Above all, it is necessary to have clear rules of the game. What does that mean? It's a state of law. Not that today some people don't pay bills and nothing just happens. And another key thing that this coalition is dealing with is access to funding resources. In what way Slovenian companies can get money to finance projects. Since the logic is this: if there is no money, there are no projects, if there are no projects, there are no new jobs, if there are no new jobs, he has not paid into the budget. All economists make it clear that the first step to freeing up the credit crunch, as is said to be modern, or to make it easier to access funding sources is to regulate public finances. And that's what we do with this balance. If we have unregulated public finances, we have poor credit ratings. Poor ratings mean higher and more expensive money we rent on foreign markets. After all, this is also more expensive money for commercial banks. And when we get to individual companies, that means higher interest rates and more difficult conditions for issuing loans. These are facts anyone can see if they want to see. I understand, however, that in these moments the coalition has placed a heavy burden on us, when what we have to do must be done and that the opposition is in a much easier position, when it can always say, but we would do even better, and we could do it differently. We will take this responsibility, support this rebalancing and I am sure that the situation in Slovenia will also start to improve at some point in time.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u32	Dear President or Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, Minister for Slovenians around the world, who I see is the only one here, and Mr Minister for Defence, the others have left us! First I'd start like this. In the introduction, Mr Boštjan Vasle gave a report and I would like to say just two sentences forward on this subject. "We all know that unemployment in Slavonia has increased in recent years," he said. "Slovenia is a small country, we have major problems in the labour market" and so on and so on. Mr Janez Janša, President of the Government, continued: "The National Assembly is today ahead of one of the most important decisions in its history." He continued to be affected by the crisis in 2008, we lost more than 60,000 jobs, public sector wages increased or increased, and economic growth was not possible without the consolidation of public finances. Slovenia will pay more than €60 million interest this year and so on and so on. Respected and respected! I would say that the government is obviously on the diametric opposite coast, as we are in opposition, so solving the problems and austerity measures it is taking to get out of the crisis is doing in some way which, in my personal opinion, leads in the opposite direction rather than in the right direction towards the common objective of getting out of the crisis. The difficulty of government measures is on the expenditure side of the budget and expenditure of the socially weak and vulnerable groups, which I think is due to ignorance, because I doubt that anyone who is aware of what he is doing will consciously take measures that can have lasting and irreparable consequences on key segments of society, such as public health, education, science and culture of the Slovenian people. No one has anything against saving, but against the way and the chosen path to us all together. Unfortunately, your chosen path is not right, for it only distances us further from the goal. The balance ahead of us is estimated to have a negative impact on economic growth in Slovenia by about half a percent. If these measures were not available, economic growth would be even higher in the current year by half a percent, a very interesting finding by Umar. In Positive Slovenia, we have come up with a proposal whereby a country with virtually painless measures could obtain around €900 million on the income and expenditure side at the same time, but the focus of the measures on our proposal is on the revenue side, unlike the government proposal, where the burden is on the expenditure side. In preparing austerity measures, we would expect more understanding, knowledge and responsibility from the government. The government should be aware that without investment there will be no development. The responsibility for beneficial infrastructure investments is reasonable and necessary, even urgently needed. The country does not have a future without economic development, and we all agree, as we all do. In doing so, I would point out the painful inability of state bureaucracy to draw financial resources from the European Structural Funds, which are intended in operational programmes to invest in emergency infrastructure projects such as water supply, waste management, transport and rail infrastructure and could still be listed. At the end of the financial perspective 2007-2013, it is a sad conclusion that we have managed to draw 15 to 20% of the fight from the European funds. I am afraid that in 2012-2013 there will be no time to prepare all the projects. On the basis of my experience, I find that there is no problem in projects; there is a problem in individuals. The problem is literally in incompetent bureaucrats who are not watching how to help, and not trying to help, but watching them say "no" and how nothing can be done. That's why we're where we're not supposed to be. Because of this, dear colleague and colleague, I have nothing left but to publicly acknowledge, in front of you and in front of the Slovenian public, that I am very sorry that the President of the Government has not proven to be a capable and effective economist, such as the President of Positive Slovenia, Mr Zoran Jankovic. You can land Zoran Jankovic in Antarctica and with penguins he will create conditions for development and a better life, prosperity if you want. The Ombudsman, Mr Janez Ivan Janša, would have made Antarctica out of perspective China without penguins and other living things. However, if the government coalition led by Ivan Janez Janša through the austerity measures presented, which in my opinion lead to an even greater crisis, manage to trigger or raise economic growth and preserve the human being a decent, social and legal state of Slovenia, I am always prepared to make a public apology. I'd like to make a few more protest notes for the end. I protest that this government is not doing well in Slovenia. I protest because this government saves where it shouldn't, in young and young families. I protest that this government does not know what a competitive economy is, as this is reflected in their austerity plan. I protest against the evaluation of the parliamentary state. For the end I would like to return to the beginning or to the address of the distinguished gentleman, I think it was Mr Tanko. "The entrepreneurs are the ones who will save, which will increase economic growth. The role of the state is to create conditions for work and entrepreneurial creation." But, dear gentlemen, it's not, it's not actually in your programs. And here in my bag I always carry your program ten plus one hundred. I don't think you carry this program with you like I do. I wear it for one simple reason – because it is an excellent program, a good program. Ten plus a hundred. If you stick to what you have written in this programme, dear colleagues and colleagues, this Slovenia will emerge from the crisis. But in austerity and rebalancing, unfortunately, it's very small, almost nothing. Why did you work hard and why you probably hired high-level experts to write a great program for you, but you do the opposite in a diametric way! I only invite you and challenge you – use this knowledge and this program of yours, because it will do you good and you will not disappoint your electorate and electorate. Because this program was literally just written as many other documents that remained in the drawer. Why don't you use this, because this is the knowledge with which you have gathered 26 Members and Members? Dear Vice President, distinguished present, small numbers, representatives of the government, who should be here today and listen to what we are talking about. Perhaps you will have a new thought or the idea of how today, tomorrow, tomorrow, the next day, to complete acceptance, to improve this balance or to improve conditions and what is actually better for Slovenia. Unfortunately, I'd like to have a much more joyful speech, but unfortunately I don't have it, because I simply find you kicking your head through a wall where it's not necessary. Only one meter away is the door, and it's even unlocked, and you want your head through the wall. Unfortunately, it all depends on your knowledge. Once again, I will stress that knowledge is a holy ruler and not money. Money is just one of many products of knowledge. And we here in this country of Slovenia have a lack of knowledge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Darko Jazbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, and a very nice greeting to you and to all present! I keep hearing that a farmer can spend as much as he came in. This goes through the ears every day. Probably a good farmer can grow as much as he needs to. But I'm not going to go into these numbers at the rebalancing, because it's actually mathematics and economics itself, as they did with cuts and numbers to show at the Ministry of Finance. But I'd like to comment on the health balance. This is also the main reason why I cannot support this balance, because in the end, the biggest cuts are in health. You all know that this is the highest value for healthy society to contribute positively to the economy, but the biggest cuts on the average are in health. The figures range from 20% to 70%. I find that really unacceptable. A particularly worrying five-year projection of this balance is. If we're looking at just one year, it's going to work, but in five years, there's a lot more consequences. The walls of hospitals and health homes will hold up, but the interior equipment will no longer. There's no money to renovate the equipment, let alone get a new one. This will also slowly resolve the contents of these buildings, and we will have only empty buildings without content. Your coalition contract says in capital letters that you decide that money should follow the patient. Now not only will he not follow the patient, nor will the patient follow the money, but the patient will follow the institution where the operating apparatus is. This is already happening on the ground, and now it's going to speed up. The patient's gonna have to go where some other C.T. works to keep him out of harm's way. I am not saying that only ambulances will drive along the roads to transport patients, but the issue will deteriorate significantly in the coming years. On the two committees, I wanted to draw your attention as a constructive opposition, but it was not taken into account, nor did I get a response from the Ministry of Finance. For the elderly and disabled and for the injured, those unable to live on their own, a certain amount has been taken away from the Ministry of Labour's balance sheet. Not really big, but enough. There is no money at the Ministry of Health for any new nursing hospital, and the needs are already great. And you know, we got this week from the Statistics Bureau of Demographics, and they were published in the media. And what does it say? The main problem with Slovenia in the future is the ageing of the population. That's a fact. With this balance you created no one's land, no one will take care of these people. They will be dealt with by social workers, and they will be squeezed a little by the Ministry of Labour, a little by the Ministry of Health. I thought there was a mistake here that you missed. I didn't get an answer from Mr Zivkovic, but then I thought that he was still a specialist in the health economy and maybe it's not a mistake, but it's a deliberate one, because maybe Mr Zivkovic knows the information that about 70% of the health money is spent in the last year of his life. And you know what I mean, maybe it's purposefully done that way. I listened to Mr. Starman today when he said he would press harder. He probably thought he'd increase these austerity measures. All right, but tell your voters, but not in numbers, tell them that the average life expectancy will not increase, tell them that the long-term care for this will be worse, tell your voters, especially in DeSUS, that older people will not be able to be treated in any small local hospital. Please let them know if you've made up your mind. I think that in the future Slovenia will become a country of philanthropy when volunteers solve these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Happy Meh, prepare to pray to the Mags. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u36	Dear Members and Members! Today, someone was talking about the prestige of the debate on the rebalancing of the opposition. He spoke of the welfare of citizens and citizens. Forgive me, this is not prestige for me, and what we are offering today, what will happen to this balance today, is not the welfare of citizens and citizens. Yes, for one part of citizens and citizens. These guys already have a great position. But those who pay the most with this balance and those who don't talk about prosperity. There's no prosperity. It's very cruel for patients, for the elderly, for the unemployed, for the pensioners, for those who can't help themselves. And the letters we received from desperate patients, hospitals, and all the others who need help put us on the spot, on our conscience, that we will do something for these people. And don't talk about prosperity, please! First, I would like to make some suggestions or questions. My first question is, what, respected government, are your predictions. What will you do about the results after the first year of adoption of this balance? How much will the number of unemployed be reduced? How many more employees are there? How many new jobs will there be? What will our deficit be, and what will we do? I expect answers to these questions. My second question is, how and how will we or will, because you have excluded us in the opposition from any proposal, encourage the economy. How much and what will we invest in infrastructure? What infrastructure are we going to build, which railroad, the road, the factory, the power plant? Whatever we do, let's write it down so we can control it. My third question is how many EU funds will we use this year? It's a specific question. Will the European funds for which government approval is granted benefit in Salek Valley? Today, it has been said that if one government accepts something, it is also true of another. That is why I would really like to see if they will have state resources in Salek Valley to take the pipeline with European and municipal resources. Now it's about what the Prime Minister said. First, that the crisis in 2008 has affected us significantly more than other countries. However, I would be very happy if the Prime Minister could answer what he was doing for the four years that this crisis affected us in 2008. Why the public sector has not adapted, the Prime Minister is asking today. However, the current president of the National Assembly was a minister in 2008, I think, whether in that year he enormously raised personal income and everything around public spending. And why is this a problem today if it could be simply arranged, if it were done differently. My next question is what the government will do for economic growth. I do not agree with this, as I understand it, that the Minister of Finance has said that the government simply will not deal with the economy and that it will not do anything about raising the economy, because it will only do so. When we reduce the deficit and when we balance the budget, it will be a miracle that this will happen in itself. I think it would be good to invest in some projects, in some countries they can say it, and I believe that we could do it. President, the government of Janez Janša also spoke about the late acceptance of the rebalancing. For God's sake, yes, who last year prevented, ladies and gentlemen, all that was proposed as a crisis countermeasure in this national assembly and who worked so fraughtly. I can guarantee that as an opposition Member I will do everything that the government can do and that I will not encourage the referendums until I think we can do something else. Referendums should be tools, but not everyday tools. Let them be the tool with which we can really ask people what people think. The point is that today the Prime Minister also spoke of a golden rule. He talked about preventing the golden fiscal rule from the adventurous action of any government and being responsible for the balance. Excuse me, the balance of the budget is the responsibility of the position and opposition in Parliament if you listen to us. To this day, the position has not listened to any of our proposals or to almost any of our proposals. So we're not involved, you're working alone. Okay. Moreover, the Prime Minister says there is no other way to balance the budget. We in the Social Democrats have also warned that the second way is that this does not have to be done in 2012. Maybe not in 2013. We've warned about revenue because we don't do anything about income. We have pointed out that there was no need to change the rate of tax to profit, nor was it necessary to adopt that income relief which was adopted here. And you calmly accepted it. Then there's the partnership offer. I imagine partnership in this way to make a proposal to get an offer and then talk. Such an offer was around the budget and you did not accept it. And the minister's suffering was discussed by the Prime Minister. For God's sake, the ministers knew what they were going into, because they didn't think they were going to play golf when it was hard and hard to work. We were all aware that our work was extremely hard, difficult, responsible and that we would all do it as best we could. Don't talk about someone being more burdened than they should be. And one more question. By means of the laws that we are changing, we will also have a significant burden on the congregations by means of a rebalancing and by means of laws. The municipalities warn that this has increased the obligations of municipal budgets. The municipalities are also proposing, and I suggest that you prepare yourself, the respected government, to monitor the indicators and indicators by which we will monitor what you propose, i.e. the amendment of 45 laws, the amendment of other regulations that we do not know about yet, and thus monitor what will happen after one year or the following year. If this monitoring is not available, then we cannot monitor the indicators for which someone will say it will happen or this will have to be changed. And one last question to the Minister. Are all the agreements you have made with the social partners, i.e. the unions and others you have spoken with, covered in the budget's rebalancing and in all the amendments you are proposing? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Meh. The word has magic. Stanko Stepišnik, get ready to pray to the Mags. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished ministers or government representatives! This rebalancing, I'd call it more a coordination programme or an adjustment programme. It is a realisation of the programme in 2011, where it is collected that the revenues are around 8 billion and that expenditure needs to be adjusted. This is one way to solve the 3% deficit in terms of a social gross product of around 35.6 billion. But we probably know another way. It is always stressed that a good master of expenditure has to adjust to income. But you have to think about how to increase your income. At the first step, as has already been said, it was a miracle that I wrote this same thing down as your president this morning that it was easy to do so, that for 800 million people it cut into expenditure and thereby reduced social rights, which were probably very difficult to obtain or some of them on your part, and now by way of forgiveness to the people. It is true that Virant's salary reform in 2008 caused this disaster in Slovenia. At that time, the country’s sector was about 3.2 billion euros of gross wages, and today this gross wage is 4.4 billion. Social transfers have also increased, and this economic crisis has come and this real sector is no longer in a position to cover the good that the public sector is giving us. The problem will be a second step. In the forecast for the following years, we see that revenue is almost the same. This means that the following year, when it comes to zeroing or two years from now, we will cut the public financial deficit for another 800 million. I don't think that's gonna work. Therefore, the opposition has very constructively proposed that, at the first step, they should try to think about how to carry half the burden to the expenditure side and half the burden to the income side. But again, I'm not thinking the way it was supposed to be, on the income side, we're just going to increase taxes and we're going to chase down capital. This happened in Europe ten years ago when Europe was hunting tycoons and capital. But the capital escaped elsewhere into the world, to China. There has been 10% economic growth in recent years, and in Europe there have been terrible problems with new investments and, of course, employment. From this we need to learn something, we need to be extremely careful, capital taxed, but in some proportion, not persecuted. If we drive him out, we decide that the capitalist country or that the capital we're building on is the one we're running away from, we're going to be left with the social one. So, in the first step, something needs to be done on the revenue side, but not only with taxes, it is necessary to increase economic growth, a social gross product needs to be increased. In the second step, when 800 million will have to be cut, there will be a social crisis, so it is essential to think already in this rebalancing how to increase the social gross product. Indicators showing how gross social product increases are private consumption, which is about 20 billion in Slovenia, then public consumption, which is about 7 billion in Slovenia and investments of 7 and a half billion. That's about DDP if I think about the little things like balancing with different stocks and so on. That is to say, we have three main indicators that we should monitor and in the following year or two years we will bring the DDP up by 10%, that is to say 40 billion to remain exactly the same picture of expenditure. At that time, we will be able to offset the public financial deficit in Slovenia. What can we do about private consumption? Very little. This is entrepreneurship, wages – probably very little. Public spending is already foreseen by the Dying negative in the coming years, so it is said that we can do nothing. And if we want to solve the situation, all we have to do is invest. However, since our economy is over-indebted and unable to obtain money, although they have the conditions to increase the volume of work, some have even fallen into insolvency because of, I don't know, what stories they have, competitive markets, they have a product they can market on the world market, and they cannot get money for their turnover. All of this shows that the country should launch public investment in such a crisis situation, at least for the benefit of two or three years. Of course, we ask ourselves again where to get the money. Yes, with such a number of civil servants, as much intelligence as we have in Slovenia, public and debt capital is not difficult to obtain for investments. If an entity can obtain investments for three times the value of its turnover, if these assets, even poorly, can under certain conditions, the State may also make an effort to do something in this area. Of course, we will not be able to raise GDP to 10% in one year or economic growth, this is identical. We will probably have to raise economic growth by 3% every year if we come up with a zero-rate result. Economic growth by 3%. The following year, economic growth is projected to be minus 1%. In the next two years, when we look at Umara's report on the development of Slovenia, we find that very high numbers are set for net exports. Today, if we look at the data, yes, because we import more than we export. For the first three months, see January, February and March and last year, each month around 1.7 billion imports, 1.5 billion exports. This is said to be negative, not positive, as foreseen for 3.5 to 4 percentage points in the coming years. Either they made it up or how they did it, I'm not gonna find out. State investment and possibly more conditions for a competitive economy should be laid down in this 2012 budget. This is where we cut everything up. In the long run, you can invest in the company only if you have knowledge. However, knowledge is acquired either by investing in training, research and development and transfer of knowledge from scientific institutions to enterprises. And there's another thing that's been wrong for a long time in Slovenia. We have somehow set ourselves up to have 3% of the GDP for development and research in Slovenia. We can't do that. We have informed Europe that we will give 1% of the GDP for development and research from public funds. We can't do that either. I don't know how we're going to be if there's no such thing as knowledge, if there's no incentive, how we're going to invest in companies. An entity may invest with knowledge only when it innovates its products. And this data from Umarje also follows that only 50% of companies in Slovenia innovate their products, products and services, but 50% not. This is said to be 50% of businesses, if they do not innovate their products, products or services, in a few years' time in a terrible crisis situation, insolvent, uncompetitive and so on. If you want to keep up with Europe, then products must be competitive. In addition to the fact that the company has knowledge, it is said that it invests in research and development, training, skills acquisition and so on, and what the President said is that we have great problems because there are no technical professions in Slovenia, because we have 80% of naturalists and 20% of the techniques and we face a major problem in the professions, the next problem in the company is if you want to invest in money. This financial spasm, which is pressured by companies in Slovenia, cannot develop normally, although they have the opportunity to increase the volume of business, what is the aim of Slovenian companies, at least those good ones, and also countries, in order to increase the social gross product in order to be economic growth. It is true, as Mr Shircelj said, that the country cannot create new jobs except in the public administration, where, as has been said, it has been said, the last 10,000 years. But it has to create conditions, and here it has to do its best to create such conditions in the school sphere, so it has to do the utmost to create conditions in the financial sphere, as well as in other spheres. But the budget shows that most of the funds were cut just for research, education, it is said that in the long run we have demanded a very strong branch. There is nothing in the balance sheet for foreign investment or very little, twice as much as 10 million. It's nothing. It's almost nothing. Inward investment in Slovenia should increase by at least 300% if we want to raise the social product within three years or in two years to those 40 billion. Otherwise, next year we will face another crisis, how to cut 800 million off. The next thing I would like to say is that this non-innovative balance, unincreased to economic growth and uninclined to the long-term component, causes enormous problems. As some say, this is saving, well, adjustment, but this causes us a major social crisis, and a major social crisis does not motivate employees in Slovenia to work very productively. It is clear that the state is in a situation such as that of debt being very expensive. Surely something must be done in this area – and something is done, it must be acknowledged – in order for Slovenia to show itself in a better light abroad, then this debt would also be cheaper. Although I think that this European policy is such that, some countries, they want to keep us at some level a cheap supplier and dependent on that money, because 700 million interest per year is extremely much money, as has been said, so all we want to do is trim 800 million euros in interest. The added value in Slovenia is zero. That is to say, all that is added value, we simply eat, there is nothing left for development and research, there is no investment left, it is said, there is no economic growth. I would like this rebalancing to be more innovative, more focused on economic growth and more strategically weighed to just think about how to increase the social gross product or economic growth or what we've been saying over and over again, the revenue side. But not just looking at the revenue side as to how we would take taxes — we will not be able to take any more taxes. The next time we can't collect anything with taxes, because people will have nothing more than they have now and they won't take anything from social services, because that's going to be a lot more problems. At least some of us, for the first time in Parliament, wanted those ideas and good experience to be passed on to this country in order for everyone to be better. And as Mr Happy Meh has already said, we speak empty, no one listens to good or bad, no ideas, you push your buttons. If I look at Mr Tank, then, say, when Positive Slovenia or SD makes a proposal, everyone against, coalition all for. At night, I was thinking about how best this solution would be in this House, because it is not a parliament, that is, what I know, vote, typing. It would be best if there were the same number of positions and coalition members in each committee, and until we agreed that the majority or at least one of them would have convinced the others on the other side, that would not have gone to the National Assembly for so long. And that would be best for the country, because then only good proposals would really come, and now only unilateral proposals will come. There is something to be aware of; it is right that you take this into your own hands, and it is also right that you bear the full responsibility for doing so. If none of our proposals are accepted by the opposition, then do not speak to the press or write, and the media should be aware that the National Assembly has accepted, the coalition has accepted, the opposition was opposed when the results are determined, you bear 100% of the responsibility. And this 100% responsibility also means your face to your electorate and probably a lot of deviations. Because the many words and numbers you utter are thought to be unthinkable and are very much for a short time to please the voter who gave you the vote. I would actually like to move forward, whether you will take good suggestions from the opposition or reject them with arguments, not just by clicking on the button, because we want the power of the argument in Parliament, but not by argument of power, at least those we are from the economy, we know how it went and how it goes if we win the argument of power, but then ultimately there is only one responsibility and then there is crying and cattle. But if we are all going to take responsibility, then we really have to follow our consciences about how we vote and press the button. And don't make excuses that someone wasn't there, that he didn't know, and so on if the situation was going to go the other way. We will certainly remind you of what we have said today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Leila Hercegovac, prepare me to pray to the Mags. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respectable people from the government, colleagues and colleagues! Personally and in front of Positive Slovenia, I protest against the proposal for a rebalancing and will not support it. Why? Because I am responsible for the people I work with for 35 years because I am responsible for the profession I have lived for and because I am responsible for my heart and vote. In my opinion, this balance is simply not good. I'm only going to comment on health because that's something I know best. Compared to the 2012 budget adopted, the rebalancing represents a decrease of 46 million. Rationalisation will take place in all areas, but mostly in investments. If we look at the last two years and the comparison in 2011, there's a lot less money. This year 2012 we have 37 million to invest, that is, my dears, very little, the four projects that were in the previous government are not designed to say anything else that has been in the drawers for many years. The maximum share is for investments, but goods and services are reduced by 30%, subsidies by 35%, transfers in public institutions between 10% and 30%, the balance of payments for healthcare providers is adjusted to 0.8%. So I don't know, I hope the government representatives are aware of the health status of the population in the country, how many mental patients there are and how many other diseases there are. We all know that there must be more money for health care in crises. I know that all of us sitting here will find a way to heal or in our country or we will pay or abroad, but the workers won't. Therefore, it must be said publicly that there are so few resources in this rebalancing that it is easy for people to tell that there will be fewer rights in the basket, that there will be additional health insurance, that there will be no investment, that there will be no new apparatus, that privatisation will be destroyed public health, that waiting periods will be longer and that we simply cannot expect because there are less resources for preventive programmes to make health better. We want him, we are aware that he should be, so once again I appeal that the 20% reduction in the balance sheet is very high. No country, especially a smaller country, with 2 million inhabitants if it wants a healthy population, will ever do so. Where are we gonna get the money? Of course, we can take the money out of the weapons, out of those means we don't need so much, and of course, we can get the loans back from those who took them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek. I'd like to ask Mrs. Alenka Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u42	Thank you for your words, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly. Dear Ministers, Madam Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have heard that the last four years for Slovenia have been practically lost. There will be more lost when Croatia joins the EU and later Serbia. We were moving away from the targets. According to Umar, in 2008 we were the closest to the EU average in development terms, 9% of the average. Later, Slovenia moved at a high rate away from this average and was 15% of this average in 2010, which comparatively took us back to 2003. The figures we have heard and clearly indicate that the situation is alarming and that the measures are urgent, so the government has focused on four areas in the first phase of the crisis exit measures: consolidation of public finances; recapitalisation of private capital banks and not taxation money, so that banks are more appropriate and able to service the economy; and as a third measure – increasing the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and, last but not least, adapting systems due to the ageing problem of the population, such as the pension system, the health system and the sustainable age care system. According to the current situation, the budget adopted by the previous government in different circumstances under the assumption of 2.5% of economic growth is due to an excessive budget deficit and therefore the budget needs to be corrected and the 2012 budget rebalancing law and the golden fiscal rule in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia must be adopted. This is just the first step, and it's the basis for us to move to the second to fourth phase of what I've been talking about. With regard to the budget rebalancing, it should be stressed that we are not only talking about measures on the expenditure side, which will, in fact, in the first year only settle interest obligations of the Circus 750 million euros that Slovenia has to pay for excessive debt, and therefore will not be in the first step of the investment money. That's the reason. The measures are also on the revenue side of the documents before us, but only in 2012 will the effects of these measures be precisely due to the fact that the budget is adopted mid-year, and the revenue side in particular in the field of taxation, and everyone is on the basis of annual accounts and will have effects in 2013 and beyond. The tax measures already taken are referring to a reduction in the corporate income tax rate from 20 gradually to 15, an increase in the unlimited aid for investment in equipment and intangible fixed assets, an increase from 40 % to 100 % for investment in research and development. These are measures that increase the competitiveness of the economy and increase economic growth while at the same time recapitalising banks, I repeat, from private capital and not from tax money. The aim of governments is to place the burdens of measures, particularly in the tax area, on the burden of the wealthier and to ensure that measures affect the medium layer as little as possible and that they do not touch the socially weakest. All these measures do not address the deficit, but reduce it to the limit to which we can still be indebted. Other tax measures relating to so-called luxuries taxation are provided for in the documents before us, such as an additional tax on high-ranking motor vehicles, an additional tax on vessels, an increase in the capital tax from 20 % to 25 %, an additional tax on real estate exceeding the total value of EUR 1 million, except for commercial and industrial use and for public purposes, a capital profit tax resulting from a change in the destination of land, which is gradually falling from 25 % to 5 %, depending on the time dimension, from the time of purchase and sale of land for which, in the meantime, the purpose of building land is to be converted into a building plot, and a change in the income scale which increases the net annual tax base, which represents between the second and third classes of the applicable EUR 15 000 681 to EUR 18 000 534. And an additional fourth income class with a rate of 50% for a net annual tax base of over EUR 69 000 313. As the next measure, it is also very important to remove tax secrecy due to non-payment of taxes and non-payment of contributions. As a last resort, the value added tax has been raised, as already discussed by a colleague of mags. Spreadel, but I would like to comment here, the opposition proposes a quick and effective VAT raise now and immediately. We have recently heard the arguments of one of the opposition MPs on the subject of saving to make it smarter and to the poorer to increase the VAT ceiling, instead of saving on the expenditure side proposed by the Government, because the poor do not buy the luxury taxed by 20% of the tax rate. So things the poor can't afford, but the rich can afford it. I would stress that supporting the measure by arguing that it is socially fair is misleading families with lower incomes, so we are careful in the coalition to raise VAT and would only introduce it as a last resort if we do not achieve below 3% of GDP in the absence of deficits. VAT already burdens the poorer today. Why? Let's see who can save today. Richer ones can save and do not pay value added tax from the savings. The poor live from month to month and also need to live on certain goods and benefits from certain services, such as food, drink, clothing, footwear, medicine, electricity, heating, purchase of housing equipment. The poor also need clothing, footwear, and services such as water, electricity, gas, heating, and housing equipment. Statistics on household consumption of goods and services show that the poorest households pay 17% of the country's total VAT and 18.3% of the richest households. Indeed, it could be concluded from this data that VAT is smart to increase, as the wealthier households do pay more value added tax to the country, but the effects are more complex and show a different picture, and they detract from the arguments of value added tax advocates in general. The tax returns that when all households consume VAT reach 17%, it says that 8.5%, i.e. a reduced rate of tax, has no significant social impact. The poor also have apartments and thus costs of heating, electricity, driving cars, buying alcohol and cigarettes, need clothing and footwear, and have mobile phones and computers. While VAT as a consumer tax does not have the same effect as income to encourage avoidance of taxes, evasion and non-declaration of income, it does encourage saving, which is beneficial, as a source of capital. But I've already mentioned that the poor can't save. The negative impact of value added tax on the poorer becomes when we compare available household incomes. Nominally, we would have spent more money, but we have to look at the income available, and the poor would have paid 26.8% of the income available, and only 17.1% of the income available. VAT is a regressive tax, and this fact would not change the VAT rate increase. And that's why at this point in the coalition, we're careful of him. In previous discussions we have heard an assessment of the actual situation, we have heard the reasons for the situation that led us to such a crisis, we have heard a proposal for measures to come out of the crisis, we have heard comments. We have also heard the proposals proposed by the Government and the coalition and also the arguments for this. Consolidation of public finances is therefore necessary for all countries of the European Union and also for Slovenia at this time. There are dynamic and momentous times ahead, and they will be historic if he wins reason. The key to a solution is in people, in cooperation, in a common perception to achieve the goal, so please let us be politicians, be statesmen, in the true sense of the word, and fight for a common goal for the resolution of Slovenia from the crisis. This is not about who wins, whether the opposition or position or the social partners, it is about winning common sense. We need to consolidate our awareness before the public finances are consolidated, and then Slovenia will be sovereign, as we have heard, even when it is no longer indebted or sovereign, when Slovenia is able to repay its debt. Therefore, please support the first step, i.e. the proposal for a rebalancing and the law on the balance of public finances and also the incorporation of a golden rule into the constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mrs Alenka Pavlič has the floor to prepare, please, Mr Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u44	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! I protest because this government does not know what a competitive economy is. We are all aware that we are in a situation where costs need to be reduced, so we are saving. None of you in the government, however, emphasises that it is necessary to reduce unnecessary costs and save wherever possible, and not the average and the way you do it. Government, you have not yet presented to us how you will bring additional funds into the budget. Positive Slovenia has already said in the electoral campaign that we are in favour of raising VAT, and the coalition has been vehemently opposed, and everything shows that it will have to do so. How you will save state-owned businesses that operate positively but are overloaded by credits from incompetent directors. To date, you've let a number of companies, Radeče Paper, Primorje, and you could list them. You have no solution in what way and how to save Intereuropa, Slovenian Railways, NLB and some others [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] My colleague, is this interesting? Good. This is about saving jobs that the whole European Union is fighting for, because they are chronically being taken over by cheaper Asian countries. I notice there are no economists on this government team who are aware of this. Although there are some economists who are testing their theoretical knowledge against us citizens. Where we are led by the military policy of the Prime Minister of the Government, who, in his second term, continues the policy of the first term. He wants to argue with the citizens. During the first term of office, we had established disputes with Croatia, and disputes between the Ljubljana and Mariborians intensified during the election campaign, and now they started between the public and private sectors. Dear citizens, do not sit on these vile provocations of government, we all need you, Ljubljanans and Mariborians. We're just gonna get out of the crisis together. Respected coalition, judge for yourself whether the balance sheet is good or will indeed have a positive impact on citizens, as demonstrated by members of the government. You will not be able to do this with cutting, your distinguished colleague, Mr Starman, who is coming from the economy, has told you this many times. I'm not gonna back this guy up. Slovenia needs a government that knows what it's doing. I protest that this government is not doing well in Slovenia. Pika.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor to prepare Mr Jerko Čehovin. But I would warn you that he who has a word will have the opportunity to turn himself in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u46	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Dear ministers, distinguished Mrs Barbara Brezigar, colleagues and colleagues! My disagreement with the document on the table today will be reinforced by some of the thoughts that are my own, which are also the result of thinking in our Positive Slovenia Group, which are also the product of some of the amendments that have been good to us, correct, pragmatic, which could lead to the improvement of the entire document, but these amendments are not and will probably not see the light of the world. Smart people always learn or learn from the mistakes of others. We learn a little less from our mistakes. The lesson on their mistakes is usually the most expensive lesson a person has to give through, and this lesson is actually also given by our country through some governments. There were years of fat cows, years of flourishing and high economic growth, at which time the money was so low that it was treated recklessly. Many ratings were determined, standards were raised, then incomprehensible, and today we come in different times. Well, at least after this period of fat cows, there has already been a state of sobriety and a search for solutions for our future, then many reforms have been launched from the government that would have brought the country out and improved this fiscal structure in that situation. However, as we know, these reforms have fallen as dominoes, very carelessly, the treatment at the meetings of the National Assembly and not least at the referendums, and so we have lost them, although I fully agree that any of these reforms would then be withdrawn and adopted either at the referendum or otherwise, then probably not today. Today the devil took a joke. Today we are probably finally saying good-bye to this very rich and varied period of fat cows, sobering up, looking for options and solutions to take this country to a better future. We are inventing models such as the model of today's rebalancing, in which we have already made some comments. In particular, from this point of view, that the design of this crisis rescue model did not take into account our opinions, our proposals, our advice, this model is not as accepted by some other European countries, and very unilaterally affects the expenditure side, intervenes and cuts in particular those rights, social rights that concern the most vulnerable and vulnerable groups. Here we do not differ much if Positive Slovenia were to design such a model, perhaps even cut into certain rights or some spheres, but the adequate on the other hand would certainly provide a better way for the revenue side to become more eloquent and more secure the overall state and balance of public finances. That's not what this is about! And we can save when we have the money. This period of fat cows is behind us, the money is gone. We can't save any more. When we don't have the money, all we can do is give up. This model and this document is a model for promoting and increasing poverty. This model will somehow drive the inertia of this spiral down into the even greater poverty that our country is now facing. After all, poverty is a matter of every society, including modernised countries dealing with poverty, but it is not necessary for our country, the country of citizens and citizens who are conscientious and responsible to engage in and face poverty such as it will come. Mr Happy Meh also said that when we draw the line and see the implementation of this whole model that you are proposing today, we will see how successful we have been and how not. I'm afraid we won't be too successful. I am afraid that because this document is so disproportionately defined and, above all, too little interference with the economic field, in the area referred to by colleague Stanko Stepišnik, there is little interference with the area in order to encourage the economy to set up this investment cycle in order to achieve new jobs on the basis of this, which would in the long term securely ensure better public financial stability. However, this work is not available and this is lacking in this document, Mr Economy Minister. We don't think that's enough. We will not only save poverty by speeding it up, cutting it down further if we do not have any other momentum, some economic generation, and the creation of new jobs. And, of course, I agree, we must reduce this public financial deficit. We still have reserves, including in the field of public services, public administration and so on, we have them. When we look at spending, it is still much, much too much in many areas as it needs to be. When we look at the public procurement system, we know who's getting, who's giving public orders. Those favoured companies that have always been connected to the entire treasury, state treasury and cash registers of individual ministries. We can do an analysis, and we'll see where the money from the state treasury is financed. The same names of these companies and of these companies appear. If, in the light of this document and also in the light of the future, when this document is implemented in practice, it looks at the country from which I come from, that is Koroška, then somehow I am afraid, that I will probably stay here more and more in Ljubljana, that I will not go to Koroška, because I am always met by people and read to me, of course also indirectly to all of you, including colleagues in the coalition, that we do not know how to manage this country and that we do not know how to adopt laws that would ensure a better future. We probably don't get a euro in Koroška to open new investments in infrastructure. The roads are such that I do not recommend that you go to Koroška, if you do not have a well-protected car, that you do not accidentally rip off a bicycle so that you can implement it. There's no money for Koroška for any road. If we look at Koroška as a border area, where at the end of the day it is easier for some people to move to Austria, where conditions are much nicer and much better, it is getting bigger. But today we are not talking about migration, today in Koroška we are not talking about the day of migration, today we are talking about moving people, young families, young families moving from Slovenj Gradac, from Dravograd, from Raven, from Radelj to the whole area, to Pliberk, Celovec and so on. It's about emptying some space. I am afraid that this document, which is here today, which I cannot agree with and cannot support, will accelerate all this negative state and negative trends that Koroška is experiencing right now. For Korošice and Korosce, Austria is now a much more friendly country, which allows them to have kindergartens, education, the construction of their individual houses and so on. And look at the statistics, and you'll see how many people are moving to that side of the border. Otherwise, we are Europe, one and the same, because it doesn't matter where we live, whether we live here or there, but it is important for them to move there, that life for them is easier, nicer, more orderly, more legal, more secure, and also employment policy there, so that you have a job for an indefinite time and that you have an adequate pay for it. There are many things that say that this document is not true that this document should be processed. I also listen to the suggestions that the opposition has made, because, as my colleague Stanko said, "we are all trying for this country, we want this country the most beautiful and the best", but you just can't believe it, colleagues and colleagues in the coalition, that you are the only ones that are the most successful, the smartest, the brightest, that you will design some documents. That is why, if you follow our suggestions, we will not usurp power, power is yours, you have gathered it or taken it away or whatever. Finally, as has been said many times before, the line below the line will see the implementation of this document. Therefore, it will probably be necessary to keep accounts at that time, even if negative accounts do not satisfy us in the opposition, but we will be even more sad and sad, because we will know that those measures that we have proposed might be the ones that will sustain and improve the whole situation. Even then, there will be no satisfaction when we see that this rebalancing document was not the point that we should accept it differently, that we should design it differently and also look at other countries for the first time, as they do not do so in such a way that they simply linearly cut everything and everywhere, but also, on the other hand, ensure that some continuity is maintained, a dynamic that also ensures the levelling of balanced public finances. This is my opinion, and I see that there are still amendments coming, which are quite a few, I hope that at the time of this adoption you will form as much as possible a better document, but you cannot improve it to the extent that you are pleased with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin has the floor. Let's get ready, mags. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all three ministers, secretary of state and colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I must say that I strongly protest that the opposition does not have the normal conditions for working in this House. In fact, those of you who are in the government coalition have already arranged for your meetings, you have government services, ministers, secretaries of state who serve you and also convince you that this is the right thing to do, what you do, while the opposition learns a lot of things only from the media. We received, in particular, at the marathon session of the Committee on Finance, as well as today, only in a much faster order, hot papers, some called them hot buns, so we didn't even know what it was about because you had to have ten documents to figure out what it was. The willingness, at least on the first day, to explain the things we're getting wasn't much. I must say that also, Mr Minister, who, while I admit to him that he was with us almost all the time, began his first day with an unusual attitude, a little underestimating and arrogant to the Members. I must say that these criticisms have had a positive impact, and I must admit that things were much better the next day. However, I cannot help but avoid the feeling that this Parliament is turning into a government depot. I don't know who lives in this mess. In short, there are no conditions for normal work. Even today's very 13th extraordinary meeting means that we have thirteen extraordinary meetings, otherwise, if I spoke in the language of my colleague, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr Shirtzl, I would say that this should be "unusual meetings", not an extraordinary meeting, because he said that we have an extraordinary or unusual situation, but not an extraordinary situation. All right, let's leave it at that. Second thing. There is no problem that we do not agree, and the opposition agrees with the detection of the situation in Slovenia. We know that the economic situation is difficult, but, on the other hand, you do not want us to work together to be your development partners, and not one, I will say, you do not accept the substantive amendment even if it benefits the full budget. While you accepted, you boasted that 11 of our amendments were accepted, but this is only a substantive amendment, and this is only about whether I will move things from left to right in the district court. We do have 11 district courts in Slovenia and you said you supported 11 of our amendments. Congratulations. I mean, if there were 11 substantive amendments, we'd be even more pleased, but that's not the case. I must say that we agree with the situation detection, but we do not agree on how to resolve this issue, how to get out of this situation. Here I think that the basis of our misunderstanding is what we always say is that things need to be resolved in a way that, if I say so, means, savings or whatever we get on the revenue side, half on the expenditure side, thus cutting down on the sensitive areas of the country and cutting down certain rights. Finally, you have understanding partners on the side of unions. I congratulate the government on its success in reaching an agreement with the unions. I think it's the right way. We don't need referendums and we don't support them in our party either, that's what we said on the first day that we won't be like any other party that's generated referendums, some in agreement with the unions, so they were partners at the time. However, when things are reduced to the fact that we are proposing only an increase in VAT, I must clearly protest. We have made it clear in both our programme and later implementations that the VAT plant is also an emergency for us, but we then proposed 1% of VAT, if you remember, in our programme. The only client who could even predict that. Now it's said, some experts are talking about 2%, in two months it's going to take 3%. And I will not be a false prophet, as someone has already mentioned here today, that the government will sooner or later land and accept higher VAT. That's what's gonna happen. I'm gonna bet. Sooner or later, it's gonna happen, whether you want to admit it or not. In fact, this has been done by all the countries in our neighbourhood, including Austria, including Germany, all the countries have done so, Croatia, not to mention the extreme case – Hungary, which went even to 27% of VAT. However, there is a conceptual confusion here. So, if you just introduce it, I predict you're going to introduce it, but don't tell us it's the only action we're proposing. However, I would like to say that most Members do not know what VAT is talking about at all. But I think Mr. Shirtzelj knows well, and what he said today, he deliberately said that it was a tax with hidden intentions. He's got secrets where they don't issue bills. If someone calculates in their service or their goods VAT, but does not issue an account, of course it is hidden there. But in the store you get this, where it clearly says, the price of the goods is that much, but the VAT price is so much higher or lower. But there were some other things that were not accurate. One thing was said by the Slovenian People's Party in presenting that the higher VAT relates – Mr Žveglič, for example, used the name "water". I must tell you, however, because I am only obliged to report this, i.e. 8.5% of VAT is paid from food, preparation of food, from the use of sports facilities, public hygiene services, from medicines, sanitary protection, including contraception, whether fit or not, from speakers, words, images, products and services used in agriculture, forestry and fisheries, from housing, medical devices for disabled persons, from tickets, from accommodation in accommodations, from copyright and ultimately, if I conclude with this, from funeral services. Of this, a lower VAT rate is paid. And, of course, which is not true, water also pays a lower VAT rate. So, what I'm saying is that what we're talking about in terms of VAT is repeatedly used, I'm sorry, too, Mr Zerjav has used this repeatedly to increase the cost of the economy. Here it has only one segment, i.e. it increases costs only to an economy that is not liable to pay VAT, i.e. to those micro-enterprises that are not taxpayers. While large companies, in particular exporters, are not affected by VAT. In the case of exporters, even the opposite, the VAT rate is as high as possible, they get it back from the country. The entire entry VAT is charged for the goods they buy at home. So I would really ask that it be used properly, but I wouldn't want to be your teacher, but not work from this family. Well, all countries have VAT. We used to have in our former country, as well as some time in our new, so thick book, which was called the Traffic Tax Act. In this law, thousands of exceptions were mentioned, and in the absence of any exception, the tax inspector punished you, even if it made sense. So much for this VAT that I won't bother this thing so much. Next thing I want to say. The main drawback of this budget is that the restrictive is linear. This means that it essentially promotes budgetary logic in a negative sense. For he who has squandered in previous years, if I say by his own words, has saved, as is now modern, is now struck, because he has nothing to take. But the one who spent up to the last cent, which the budget has given him, is now rewarded and laughing cheerfully, because he can spend further, to a lesser extent, but still costly enough. Here, the government has missed an opportunity to do certain sectoral analyses and to find out in depth where we really have too much, where we do not have enough. We have too few, say, officers in the field, we all say we have too few, but we probably have too many people in the General Staff of the Slovenian Army and those who parasite around it, but we don't do these things. In general, we have too many agencies, too many different institutions, too many people from office jobs before government mandates expire, which are about the same, we have moved on to regular employment at various ministries, funds, agencies and so on. We really have too much of this, but instead of getting deeper and really picking up where we have too much of this, linearly, it is taken everywhere and some programs are also disabled or moved in such a form that it is not possible to do normal work. The next thing I want to say, when we made some proposals with identical movements, such as the amendment must be prepared, proposed to the committee, was the justification or also in the package that we received today by the government, that these things cannot be moved because we have some obligations. With the latest package we have now, this is probably due to a signed agreement with the unions, but this is the same text, but all of a sudden, it is possible to take money from servicing public debt, it is possible to take money from military programmes and so on, despite the fact that it has been said that the military is so powerful that nothing can be moved. This means that it's important that you have this right color, not that you have this right idea, or that you're now at a union meeting that was so good that they've spared everything with the referendum. This means, once again, that one is offered, the other is done, one is spoken, in practice the matter is different. Another thing that really bothers me about the economy. We all know that the solution to this crisis is to strengthen the economy, its competitiveness and, above all, its development components. All I have to say is that I am very disappointed, Mr Žerjav, right now I am looking at you among the microphones, let's say that you cut almost 50% of the funds in this budget to promote tourism and the exercise of tourist destinations. It was the industry that, even during the previous so-called worthless Pahor government, did not suffer any serious injury, but even one of the few sectors that had a positive growth trend. Such things are not done if you are serious about this growth of the economy and so on. Therefore, I must say that even the internal budget is not coherent; it is working in haste, very forcefully, without the possibility of any exchange of views that has occurred, it is only because of the pressures of trade unions that have forced some things to preserve what you have left behind. But I have to say in the end, given that someone is boasting in this debate today, "that this is a feist to stop giving these fighters certain privileges." I must say that, more acutely than a member of the 48th-thousand-member organization, this is the NOB value fighters, I am protesting that this balance is used to take the so-called martial arts supplement. This is how this old population is tried — 18,000 more live fighters, of which 6 thousand must be given an extra, others have normal pensions — to take on old years and to be given some bitterness in the last years of life and to wonder whether their fault might be because they did not fight on the right side and did not wear the right uniform. That, I must say, goes beyond all limits. It's an economic crisis. But not so great that we avenge ourselves on some of the older populations. Among other veterans of the war for Slovenia, to a lesser financial extent by increasing their additional health insurance. Mr Hršak, don't laugh, it's also sad, the fighters are also members of your party Desus. I tell you this, I don't think you really need to laugh because it's very sad. And that country that doesn't respect its history doesn't have a great future. Unless we see a future when Mrs Alenka Bratusek protested on the Committee on Finance against this type of work, not because we are afraid to work, but because we take the time to look at things, she gets the answer from our Commissioner-in-Office of the Committee to go see what it feels like to be in front of the German Embassy when people are waiting for visas. Of course they are waiting, as some Slovenians are waiting for visas in Zagreb for Australia and so on. But if that's the solution, then tell us clearly that this is the solution to go before the embassies or to send our children and grandchildren into line before the embassies. That's a little demagogic. It is demagogic that such a proposal came into the balance and, in particular, to the ZUJF. I strongly protest this country's vendetta against veterans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Jurša responded to the replica, raises his hand, and only mentioned was Mr Ivan Hršak. Did I get it right?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I would like to inform my colleague of one thing that, in the party I am representing in Parliament, I am well aware that far from being an unrealistic time, that there are very serious times and that we are well aware of that. I hope that you, too, in your parliamentary group, are personally aware of what time Slovenia is and what needs to be done to change this matter in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, perhaps procedurally, because you were not mentioned, but did I follow? Have you been mentioned? Here you are, but I don't remember you being here, but I'll check. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Mr. Jerko mentioned me. I'll say it's true what he said. I also mentioned water in this matter. It's not water, it's at a lower rate, but it's true that if you're building a plumbing, the rest of the stuff is more expensive. Also, this water I drink here is in the bottle, it says, the bottle is at a higher level, the stopper, the label and also the transport. But I'm sorry, it's true, I mentioned it, and it's my fault. But I also said other things, which are at a higher tax rate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Magus, too. Andrej Shircelj was mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. He just explained a few things to Mr. Chehovin. First of all, the VAT rate and the tax rate. It is true that if the exporter exports goods, it gets all the DDS paid back, but it also pays more VAT when it purchases, meaning that either when it purchases or imports it pays 22 % or 25 % of the taxes, it will get everything back. VAT is neutral here, so the higher rate does not mean any more taxes in the sense of getting something more than he paid. It always gets the same, whether it is at a rate of 5 % or 10 % or a rate of 30 %. I can also comment on that dialogue with Mrs Bratuškov. I think it was more than that at the time, not that it was more late in the hours, but it was not that we still had to look at these documents, but that we worked long into the night, and of course it was also mentioned that, in fact, it was not unusual for me to work in the National Assembly, if we also work in perfectly normal hours for Slovenes and Slovenes, it is during the nights, we have a third shift, we have many people working at night also in such occupations, doctors, nurses, travelers and so on and so on. I think it's really nothing out of the ordinary and we have a much higher salary, most of us, than all of these professions. I think so, I wish there would be another session like this, but maybe the meeting won't be set for nine perfect or nine o'clock at night. Time is relative and, of course, habits can vary in people, so that they would not be able to whitewash their heads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u55	Thank you very much. It was just in three minutes, but so be it. The word has magic. Mr. Ivan Grill, please prepare.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u56	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished three ministers with co-workers, have a nice day! If you expect me to speak ill of the coalition or of the current government about you, I must disappoint you, I will not. I know you're doing a hard job, it's not nice to be in your jobs, it's probably a lot of people's regret that he's taken over that burden, even President Jansha I've already heard publicly that he'd give it up, so then I don't know why he was trying to do this job. [[...]] However, there is something else I would like to say; it is true that we have, I think, a purely legitimate, different economic perspective on the resolution of the crisis. This is also in Europe so much, and I hope that those of you who use them will have some effect because it is good for the country. Whether it is a party or an individual, it is important to look at the country. But let me give you three tips or at least wishes if you can follow them. The first is quite simple, very much like to mention the example of the measures implemented by Germany. This is right because we can only win by not learning and making mistakes in our country, on our citizens and citizens, but by transferring what is a successful foreign practice to our soil. If you look at Germany, you will find something that is essentially the current success of Germany's reforms carried out by Comrade Schröder, Social Democrat, years ago. He already knew that, even if reforms were successful, they would not be in his mandate and he would lose, and that was what happened to him. Something similar has been tried by our President Borut Pahor, but we have this regret that, unlike the other 26 European countries, when a government adopts something that is adopted when a Parliament is adopted, we have this unfortunate referendum legislation and that is why the situation in the country is worse now than it would have been otherwise. And here is my first request for you, who are ruling, who bear all responsibility, because our voice, so that you will take it into account, is worth little less than nothing, but you are responsible. Let us agree to amend the referendum legislation. With the current referendum legislation Slovenia is in a standstill. I also say this because you so much like to mention the golden fiscal rule, but when we try to tell you that referendum legislation is the same or more important, you don't want to listen to us except for individuals. It's bad for the state. That's first advice. The second advice is as follows. The budget is what it is when a person reads it, and if we know a few numbers, it is clear what will happen, you will quickly have a balance on the balance, because you will find that you have sunk some of the activities that are very important in Slovenia. That's not how the state can function. You will find, over time, that you have chosen the path that is now increasingly called the "Spanish negative spiral" in Europe. So, my second request is to examine the case of Spain and see why now all of Europe knows that it cannot do so. The third thing I'm putting on your heart. When you're doing the next rebalancing, think you've taken the agricultural field too much. Nothing helps you to have a capable agricultural minister if there's not enough money left. Allow me two or three arguments. As my colleague from Positive Slovenia said, the public sector has in the past been somewhat rationalised, unfortunately not all over the same. He's been rationalized somewhere, he's already undernourished somewhere, but there's also areas where things are the other way around. However, in recent years, if something has been rationalised in this area of agriculture, forestry, nutrition and the environment, if you look at what has happened to the number of people employed, both in ministries and in their subsidiaries or transfer institutions, you see negative indices, both in the number of people and in the number of material or financial transfers, both for wages and for material costs and for something else. With the current linear measures, you will find in a few months that you have condemned some of these services not only to life, but at a time when European agricultural policy is changing, you have condemned them to disappear from Slovenia's face, but they are urgently needed to bring new technological knowledge not only to Slovenia, but between these 74,000 farmers. Finally, you say many times that there is a great opportunity in the green jobs in Slovenia. When we are talking about green jobs, in particular and often we are thinking about the forest-forest chain, here also the two ministers, both Mr Žerjev and Mr Bogovic, I would like to commend you for taking a step forward. Last week was a good one, but the foundation of the forest chain begins in the woods. And you took the Forest Department like a chicken in a farmer's yard. The chain can't work well if you're trying to disable the first section of the chain. I suggest that you correct some of the mistakes that you are probably aware of in the next rebalancing, but perhaps the time is running out, I would like you here, when you are all present, especially I tell you, the finance minister, because in the end you are guilty, because you are always guilty when the ministries tell me how much the finance minister has taken away from me, which, of course, is fine for the other ministers, for you a little less, you have left too little money on the farm also, and if the other minister does not bother you, I will speak more easily. Thank you. Indeed, Slovenia has been operating for some time so that one part of the direct payments starts to pay in the current year. It's not a lot of money, it's 10, 12 million, but it's money that's kind of in reserve for those farms that something bad happens to them. However, farmers live in a natural environment and this year's budget is gone. I suggest you return that money when you do the rebalancing. Second of all, I would suggest you return some money to the insurance premiums. There you have collected too much money, and what we all want to ensure that farms are insured and encouraged by this, we will not achieve this if we withdraw the co-financing of premiums. Then, they happened to you, I think purely random mistakes, that you took money from a veterinary health service that carries dead animals, so that they don't stay on farms, that infectious diseases don't spread, and when the price went up, you cut them down, and at that time farms don't have the chance to build their own refrigerators for dead animals, so here you have to return the money. Then perhaps one such detail, which means much to you or not, you have taken the money explicitly to promote food. In order to understand why this is important, we are currently buying more than €800 million of foreign food in Slovenia. Every euro that remains in Slovenia at this time is additionally useful for Slovenia. Some range is that the minister, government, MPs, position or opposition speak to Slovenian buyers and buyers, let them buy Slovenian food because it is useful for Slovenia, but our political range, we are a politician, is limited. At some point these actions, which are professionally guided, must also begin. I suggest that because EUR 800 million goes for foreign food, at least some 100 million can remain in Slovenia, and correct this mistake. And finally, allow me, for the benefit of the Slovenes and Slovenians, to sometimes listen to the opposition, we do not always want to tease you, we do not want to imitate you from the past four or a few years, in fact we want our country to go well, because in the final stage we are aware that in four years, when we have to correct your mistakes, it will be even harder for us than it is for you now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. Get Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! Before continuing the debate, to refresh the opposition in particular and to deny at least two of your claims or statements that are not true. The first is that you were not invited to address this crisis and that you cannot participate. In his address, President Janez Janša called on you once again to hear at least one letter of response to the offer of cooperation for a month and a half. He didn't get it until today. And if you think that your constructive attitude is to make amendments that are more or less, we know for what purpose they are written and presented, that is not the first attitude. Things are arranged at a table where arguments are faced and a common path is sought. We have a fine example now that after a month and a half of negotiations, the unions have been able to agree largely. This is the first very important thing. And another, which is also important, and you all want to forget, today is exactly 3 months since the current government has sworn in this House and you would expect the government to remove the credit crunch, that I do not really know what severe conditions for economic recovery to make a projection of these measures five years ahead of time, and you attribute all the bad things that are present in Slovenia to this government. However, I do not want to discuss the reasons or the culprits, but a number of those present could show for the bad decisions over the past three years that have brought Slovenia into this position. But look, today is not the time. Today, Slovenia is in a position to sever species and act without delay. There is no time for philosophies, no time for demagogy, and there is a need to look for ways that also have professional foundations. These measures, which the government proposes – because they are not political factions or some such decisions, which have no real basis or interpretation in theory, as well as the experiences of other countries that have crossed this path, are now in a completely different position than Slovenia. An excellent starting point could be today's presentation, I hope that we have seen this presentation for the most part, Director Umar, who drew a very accurate projection of where Slovenia is today and where Slovenia was three years ago. He gave reasons for bringing Slovenia into this unenviable position. And if everyone were aware of this, but if they did not try to pretend to be here and with some demagogic debates unjustifiably criticize, mostly unjustifiably, these proposed measures, this debate could be shorter, more constructive, and those next steps that would need to be taken in addition to the rebalancing and the law on the balance of public finances. We have a lot of work to do. Today, there have been many debates here that the government is drastically reducing resources for science and development and that it is a rescue plant that will lead Slovenia out of this crisis. But at the same time, Director Umarja has made it very clear here that in the European Union, on average, there are 120 patents per million people, and in Slovenia this number is only 60, despite the fact that millions and millions and millions have increased and invested in science and development over the past years. So we have some effects? Obviously, we weren't successful here. However, I believe that we have many specialists who know the money they are able to obtain in this way very well, but probably for completely different purposes. Here we may also agree on many things if we are to look the truth in the eye. Today in the Finance magazine very, I can say, one of the authors writes meaningfully that the analysis of public finances in Slovenia shows in particular two very clear messages. The first is that if the government of Janez Janša gives in to these austerity measures, Slovenia is poorly written. This is not a statement by a political party, but it is a statement made by respected economists, both Slovenian and international. And another statement at that is, or a finding, if this reform is not adopted, then pensions, social transfers, wages and probably more, which, of course, I belong to, will collapse, of course, downwards. So these few percent that we want to save in this way are probably the optimal solution that is acceptable to most people. That is why I would also like to demarcate here those statements which, of course, also differ from the opposition Members. Some explain that these measures will mainly affect or affect the medium layer, some other explains that the lowest layer or those at the bottom. But look, it's not like that. These measures will try those people who have the least income that is truly at risk, to take account of their situation and will not be affected by these measures. Everyone here would like us to tax rich people more. Of course I'd agree with that. How many rich people do we have? At least the rich in the sense that this wealth can also be proved to them. Those who have property in Cyprus, and in other countries, these are mainly people who are closer to the opposition types, probably find it very difficult to show or prove something here, even taken away. This is definitely a bad solution here. In the diagram, I will also refer to the Finance Officer, very clearly shows how in Slovenia the money has been irritated since 2008 and when it reached the bottom or that we have paid the most expensive debt. In November 2011, when we had a political crisis, financially, everything in stock, we paid almost 7% of the interest. Germany was at the time paying, at least these figures are only 2 %. And this debt and such high interest have led us to spend more than €700 million today or this year alone. Therefore, it is important that this rebalance does not save itself from being in charge of our children, here I always want to stress, either by saving or by reducing the indebtedness of our children is, of course, a concern for our children. They will be the ones who will, of course, have to pay for it. And don't tell me someone's taking money here. Nothing is taken, it is only trying to consume it less than it is created, and so this balance, as we are looking at, is an essential step. I would also like to see a variety of items treated differently. But someone tell them to tell them where to take them, that we can give them to someone else, and that, of course, we won't hurt them in the way that there's gonna be fire in the roof again. Finally, I would like to highlight just the following. If, after a month and a half of solid negotiations with trade unions that have been, I can say, unfavourable, hard negotiator, often without any professional, well-founded arguments, these views have certainly been brought together. Let us also step together by the opposition, not through procedural or perhaps even through long-standing and tiring discussions, to prevent these processes, to take this first urgently needed step here and to allow, of course, not only to be imposed on the government, but also to enable it to prepare it immediately, even though they are already in preparation and, above all, to put into discussion those measures which we are all very clearly calling for here to revive the economy. Then perhaps we can talk about how we can share what we create. It's just in the end. All of these measures, all of which are now being considered, are taking, this is not something that will be permanent, these are things that are time-limited and not saying that this will now be something that will never change, much of which will be possible if we successfully overcome the crisis, in a year or two, we will return to the old framework or to a better one, and that we can all have more of this together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Grill. Mr. Joseph Kavticnik, prepare us, please, Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u60	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. Ministers, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! In those days, when we talked about two important documents, the rebalancing and the law on the balance of public finances, there were many speeches, many good messages, and I am disturbed by this urgency and also by this extraordinary meeting or emergency meeting. It's inappropriate for such an important document. Today it has been heard that this is one of the most important documents that we will accept here in the National Assembly during this period, of course, but unfortunately it is not the best. I am not satisfied with the document we have received because this document interferes with the many rights of citizens and citizens and takes a certain freedom. Of course, that's why I can't be happy. We are all aware, and again today, there can be a point of urgency between us that action must be taken to rationalise public spending, to encourage the economy. The president said you had three steps to take. The first is saving — we got it and we got it right in front of us. The amendments are always coming again, because I don't know where we are exactly, these amendments are warm, hot or otherwise or otherwise, but they're opaque because we don't have a checkup, they're in a hurry. You know, it's one golden rule, it's that golden rule, and we're not going to write it in the constitution: "He that is hasty will fall." And the rush isn't good, unless you're going to hide something, then it's good to hurry. If you hurry, they get you, somehow you can be treated like someone who's hiding something, and that's not good. We're scaring people with this rush. Don't scare us because we know you. But you're scaring people, and that's not good for motivation, for the general sense and state of the spirit in our country. I am pleased that you have agreed with the union today, because, as they have already said, we do not support the referendum and would do everything and we have also helped to do everything to avoid the referendum, but I am sad that you are under the pressure of the unions to otherwise call the referendum, give in and go to talk. No, because of these arguments we've already told you. A colleague who said earlier said that we should talk somewhere in which cabinets or maybe in some cafes or I don't know where, because this is Parliament, we're talking on committees. The committees have been given good initiatives on our part, good proposals, and we have strengthened them with amendments, but they have not. You fixed something for yourself with the amendments, which is good, and that's what we're talking about. Like you, we are going to improve the situation in the country, but the roads are too different. Secondly, economic growth, as the Prime Minister has said, is nowhere to be seen. I don't see any action. I do not see what conditions the state will create to accelerate economic growth. I am interested because I am from that end of Styria, which is still important and must be connected to the 3rd development axis, including Koroška, White Krajina, when you intend to start building, so that you will give the opportunity to at least that part of the construction that remains in Slovenia can survive. Thirdly, development, he said – I did not see it either, unless perhaps you think that this intervention in reducing education and science funds is a step towards bringing the country out of the crisis. I don't know. Mr Stepišnik said earlier that we have a little over 2% of GDP for science and development, and I would add 10% in America. I don't think there's any comment necessary here. The 2012 budget balance is not development-oriented, but based on rapid savings, and as I said, it is not too good. Above all, it has a strong impact on the reduction of resources in education, science and health. These areas, however, are key to long-term development. This rapid approach to solving this problem is particularly problematic. Members and Members don't even know what you've agreed on, where you've reached agreement with the unions, where you're going to take some more euros, where you're going to add them. On the Committee on Finance, I have heard that the Government will provide funds for some programmes with allocations, so I rightly wonder why you are in such a hurry or why we are even discussing this issue today. For you will distribute this, you will talk to the unions, and it would make sense, as our colleague Alenka initially said, that the debate on this is adjourned, wait until you have completed all the discussions, prepare both documents as it should be, and then we will agree. And I am sure that if we took the time, there would also be more listening and more willingness on our part, of course if you are prepared to really listen to our initiatives and to accept them as such and to include them in these two important documents. In recent days, I have received a number of letters from desperate citizens and citizens, probably from you too, asking me as a Member to take the initiative to change the Government's intention to reduce those resources that lower people's basics for further cultural survival. It's about workers, single mothers, students, students, students, pensioners, disabled people and so on. By adopting this universal law, which affects 45 areas, reform is being done not only in education but in many areas. For an education that I know very well, we have always had a hearing and a desire for reform to be done slowly, professionally and gradually. For this, two professional books were written, one blue, one white, I don't know, maybe you're making yellow, but I haven't seen her yet, I don't know who the experts involved are and whether you've invited civil initiative to do so. Citizens and citizens put us on the same denominator, everything. We are Members and Members of the National Assembly. And I regret to inform them that it's not like we're all on the same noun. In the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia today, we are Members who do not support the rebalance due to these mistakes and the urgency and possibilities of many anomalies that will appear and as such undermine the social state system – I do not support the dismantling of public education and health and the legal and social state and the security of our citizens – and are Members or Members of the coalition that will support this. I believe you don't want everything I said. But the path you're going on is leading to sharpening, violating rights. The path that we have presented is sweeter because it does not take so much at once and the possibility that the public sector will adapt to appropriate consumption at that time. Gradually, everything can be done. By doing so, we will gain the confidence of citizens and citizens, whom we will still need in some way, all together, in order to come out of this crisis. Dearly respected, the recovery of the economy and the current austerity measures must be undertaken soberly. This is a demanding project. However, it requires the participation of everyone we can, of course, invite in this project. These are various experts in economic, financial, psychological, physiological, philosophical, didactic, economic sciences and so on. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Positive Slovenia has run out of time to discuss. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u62	Hello, everyone! I've also heard excuses these days for speed, error in calculations, and so on. I'm sure no one knows how much this account will actually show. Today I hear time is relative, we can work at night. Of course, if war is a state or if we want Members to be unconcentrated, tired and accept everything at once. Look, we're starting a regular session of the National Assembly on Monday. Five regular points are on the agenda. Not even the Municipality of Bovec or the Shalovci have as many points and agendas as our week-long meeting. And today, here on the nose, because these days we had to work with no idea how fast we're doing stupid things. Now we've got another one, look, the whole novel. We'll take that. So what do you think we're superhumans, or you want us to say, we vote in a package and go home. Unfortunately, the necessary structural measures, the reform measures, have not been taken in the previous mandate following your guilt, the pension, the labour market, health reform, the grey economy and so on. Today, we are solving the financial situation of the country through these rapid measures. This isn't serious! This isn't serious. We do not support these measures in Social Democracy. Not because no one knows what's behind all this, and the consequences will be another week and another month, the following years. And let me just say, in eight days, why do we have to name the principals, shorten the procedure? Mr. Minister – because he is not – what kind of financial savings is this? How many million do we save or do we do this to cut their heads off? We abolish the regional administrations of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments. They're moving to Postojna in Nova Gorica because it's expensive rent. People, darling, two free floors will be available to the state. And the moving there, that from the Bovec, from Crassus, from all over the place, the parties shall go to Postojna. It is a rationalisation that workers who will Yes will probably have a paid train travelling from Nova Gorica to Postojna for at least four, five, six hours, paid transportation to work, the lowest option. [[...]] Look, we're shutting down the fighting supplements, the "little bit of morgen" we'd be talking Slovenian here in this House today, if these fighters weren't there, there's fewer every day, and that's the savings of the state. Who do you want to take revenge on? All of this is hidden in these documents and therefore we simply cannot accept it. Our joy comes solely from the fact that the government and the unions have agreed that there will be no referendum. We are the last to support the referendum because we have felt the throwing of stones into Parliament and much of what you have directed. We will never be like this, and I am glad that the unions have agreed, but this does not mean that the unions are satisfied and that this dialogue has been for the benefit of all the people of our country. I'm just asking for the end. Do I have the right information that Germany has postponed the ratification of the fiscal rule agreement? Perhaps because of a high visit to Slovenia these days in Germany? I have this information from a foreign press. I will vote against these documents, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u63	Thank you. Minister Zerjava has applied to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ambassadors and Members, welcome to my side as well. Surely this subject that we are discussing today or that has been discussed in the National Assembly in recent days is, of course, very difficult. It is not simple, and I must say that I understand the criticism that comes from the opposition species, and I also accept it in some way. However, it is necessary to add to this the fact that in any way we are turning things around, we are not in the most normal times in Slovenia. Times are hard, but above all, times are times that require us to act quickly. They demand swift action from the government, the economy requires rapid action from the government and, finally, people living in this country require action from us. Even in the previous term, we have often found ourselves at a time when decisions were difficult, when decisions were not easy, when it was difficult to get in front of the camera and tell, listen, and today we will reduce a right, cut it a little or whatever. I managed this many times, even when it was not easy, but it was not something normal for a small opposition party, because we understood that the times we live in were not simple. While we were talking about pension reform, it was not easy, but we understood the moment in which we were, and we supported this pension reform at the time. Today, I would expect us to talk patiently about what is on the table today. I understand that in many of the measures that are on the table today, we may not all agree. However, I do not believe that on the opposition side you do not agree with any of these measures, which are proposed, but with none at all! Of course, I don't understand this because of the question, of course, what is the alternative? Where else are we going with this? At present we are at a level of slightly less than 50% of GDP, we all know that the limit is 60%, the Maastricht border, so we have 10% at our disposal, if you want between 3 and 3.5 billion, available to balance with some trend in public finances by 2015. That's what we have at our disposal. If you think we have more than 10% at our disposal, tell us how much, are we going to go to 70%, 80%, 90% of GDP debt? Greece is not in these problems today because it has balanced finances, Greece is in trouble, because it has had an irresponsible policy that did not know at the moment to say bob beans and stand before citizens and citizens and say, listen, so it is no longer going forward because it will be difficult because it is impossible to spend more than you create in the long run. Unfortunately, this was not a responsible policy in Greece, but it should be, so I think it is still responsible for Slovenian politics, Slovenian politicians, to say this, to say what needs to be said and not what people want to hear from us. This, of course, makes the coalition much easier than the opposition, it is perfectly clear to me and it is also, but at some points it is still possible to step, if not a whole step back, at least half a step back. It is expected from the government that in this short period of three months or as long as we are already in office to prepare or change the balance that we agree is not real to prepare everything for the economy, everything for the social sector, will in short solve all the problems that are in this country within three months. I hope you believe that it is impossible to do so in this short time. That, in the first phase, we have focused primarily on what the economy and this country require of us, so as soon as possible that we have a real balance to try to reduce this debt. And that's what we did. We have devoted ourselves to social dialogue, and perhaps no one can tell us that we have not done so. Hours and hours, days and nights, colleagues and ministers negotiated to reach an agreement. And thank God we've come to this arrangement so that we can buy time to solve some of the acute problems ahead of us in the coming months. I personally regret that we did not save them in the previous term. I'm sorry that pension reform failed. At that time, I said that this pension reform would still come to our table. And that's what's gonna happen. We're gonna have to spin the whole story again. It is clear to us that now, given that we have actually concentrated at this first stage on the balance sheet, on balancing public finances, we are only talking about saving. At this point, we are only talking about saving because it is a topic because we have focused on it first, and I reject that we are not talking about anything else, because we ourselves know or we all know that in this budget rebalancing we are also proposing some measures that are not saving us, which you are reading, that we are not throwing money through the window, measures that are designed to promote economic growth, that we will create a more competitive business environment that will also be more interesting for foreign investment, that we are talking about the corporate income tax and that we are talking about the benefits that we have foreseen in this rebalancing. Eyewitness, just saving, not holding up. Indeed, it is not sustainable because all three measures are the ones that speak against it. I have said that with what we are doing today, and of course it is uncomfortable, I hope that we will conclude the matter and that then we can focus on the other part or the other phase, on the one hand, on the implementation of the programme, on structural reforms, on labour market reforms, which is one of the key reforms, so that, as I say many times, we will create a more competitive business environment in this area, and we will face pension and health reform. We can't escape that. But this requires social dialogue, so we have drawn up a social agreement, and on this basis the whole matter will also take place. In addition, the government is preparing some other measures related to the stimulus of the economy. We will prepare, in the coming weeks, I would call it "a package to promote the economy", but about the details in the coming days, given that we are still discussing and drawing up the matter. But I would like to have a billion or two drawers somewhere and put them on the table and slowly through such and different instruments encourage the economy. There are no billions of these, and this money is gone, and we don't have this debt option anymore, because at 6 billion deficits that we've created in three years, our credit rating has fallen by - how much? Three degrees, if I recall. We can continue at the same pace, and the ratings will fall. By preparing a package based mainly on administrative measures and, of course, on those others, I am talking about some of the calls that we will propose primarily to encourage greenfield investments. I'm stressing again. Do not tell us that we are only saving because this is simply not true, but this is the basis for us to create the conditions for the normal functioning of the economy and the conditions for us to normally encourage this economy by the measures before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u65	Anyone else would like to discuss the general part of the budget rebalancing proposal? I'm reopening the application. Mr. Marian Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. In opening, I must say that I will support the budget's rebalancing. I am convinced that after three and a half years this is the first true foundation on which this country can build seriously, qualitatively and responsibly. The first true foundation after three and a half years, which is real, which has clearly stated the actual situation as it is in this country right now. And today we're always listening to us scare people. Dear Members and Members, if we listened to the voice of the people, we could find out without any problem what state our country is living and is and is operating in. If you'd listened to the voice of experts, financiers, economists, economists, you'd probably be qualified to do so, I'd say, irresponsible, they wouldn't have allowed it. You've been trying to get us all the time – why are you in a hurry? Do you know why we're in a hurry? Three and a half years, three and a half years old citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are waiting for one matter to finally happen, to finally awaken Slovenian politics and start thinking in their interest, not in the interest of individuals who are doing their best in this country. And today here, ladies and gentlemen of Positive Slovenia, I must tell you, I am very disappointed that some Members of your parliamentary group allow themselves to be personally disqualified by the people who have certainly proved in this country and showed them what this Republic of Slovenia means to them. On the other hand, they are trying to compare Mr Jankovic with such people – you can read in the magnetogram who said that. And that someone I am talking about, this is the President of the Government, is not capable of being an economist, that Mr Jankovic is an economist who has proved through work, his work in this country, how capable he is, and that he can go to Antarctica, and that he can also make arrangements with the penguins on what I don't know and so on. We have heard such things in this House today. Tell me who [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u67	Mr Pojbič, we are talking about the general part of the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u68	This is related, Mr President, to the debate in this House on the general part of the balance. And allow yourself, just as you have not interrupted all those who have spoken so, please do not allow yourself to try to stop me from telling you why I will support the budget rebalancing. And I ask you kindly, Sir from Positive Slovenia, with your client – now I will finish and then I will not mention you – with your client Positive Slovenia there is only positive written that sign, the other nothing. Otherwise, more negative parties than you call yourself today on the Committee on Finance have not met in Parliament and I am the third term. And I'm very sorry that I did. And how will you convince the Slovenian public that you want to work in the interest of the Slovenian public? How? And I conclude this debate because I had to say this because you can read a magnetogram of your fellow Member, what he allowed himself to say and where he personally tried to disqualify the Prime Minister Janez Janša. It seems to me that this has gone beyond any level of debate in this House. To get back to the budget balance. I am convinced that the economic, social, financial and crisis situation in this country is such that we need such a document. We need, as I said before, because this is one of the foundations and those true foundations after three and a half years. And I am convinced that our people, Slovenians and Slovenians, know precisely that it is necessary to take certain measures and certain foundations so that we can prevent the break of the social state so that we can prevent the break of the social state. And that's the goal of the coalition. And he's not in this House, he's not, and I hope to say that's not true. One is what someone is demagogic about, the other is what is true. And beyond the truth, it's impossible. Demagogy exists as much as you want, no problem. But right now, there's one real truth and only one. Slovenia is in a situation where it is absolutely necessary to adopt certain solutions, measures and between them, so that we can build on sound foundations the future of Slovenian society, its basic starting point, because we are always trying to work on maintaining the foundations of the social state. But the foundations of the social state began to fall. Do you know when? When employment began to fall, even to this day in 2009, 2010 we have practically come into the situation of having 60,000 more unemployed than we had in 2008, and 60,000 at least, as the Prime Minister of the Government said today, at least those who were employed from foreign countries. Calculate, 120 thousand employees pay less in all cash registers. How do I make it up to you? On the one hand and on the other, we have spent significantly more, even in the state administration, as we have produced. And look how we can afford to spend at least 20% to 25% more than we have in the current year. Imagine how it would work in the family if you had a thousand euros to pay, spend a thousand 200 euros a month, by the end of the year, calculate, you have 2,000 400 euros minus, for which you had to take credit, and then when this situation comes up, the bank says to you, "My dear Lord, we can't give you any more credit." What are you going to do at that moment? Will you start saving and start thinking about changing your view of solving a particular situation in your family that has not gone in the right direction? The exact same story is in the country, there is absolutely no difference, and that's exactly what happened to us. And now, what we would expect, dear ladies, distinguished gentlemen, at least that and what our people expect of us is that in this situation we squander species and stop arguing about who is who, we stop personally disqualifying each other because it brings nothing good, nothing useful to anyone. And look, thank God that there is reason to remain in this country, and this has proved to be through this social dialogue, through negotiation. The government has demonstrated its wisdom, its quality, the social partners have demonstrated their wisdom and their quality and together it is essential that certain solutions be adopted in this country, which will be the basis for building the Slovenian future. And one more thing. If I think back well, your president has also said somewhere, "if the government is able to find consensus, agreement with the social partners, our parliamentary group will support the rebalancing and this law." I think he said that somewhere, I'm not quite sure if it's true, I apologize to the Group of Members, but I think it's true. And today I am listening to such harsh political, irresponsible, inhuman, I will say, if I may say so, attacks on all those who want this Slovenia's good. So, please, how can you afford this? Yes, where is your positive soul now, where is what it takes to give to take this Slovenia one step further, where, by God itself, you tell. A few more words to conclude. I said I would support the balance as well as the Slovenian Democratic Party. I will read another item that was sent to me by the Styrian Initiative – Calls for the Styrian Ambassador of Styria. They wrote the following: signed under this document is Dr. Ivan Rozman, I am sure that this authority, which concerns Maribor and Styria, you all know where it comes from, you all know where it comes from, knows where it comes from, so from academic spheres, see what they wrote: "The Styrian Initiative calls on all Members elected in Styria to take over their part in social responsibility and vote on Friday both the 2012 draft budget rebalancing bill." And the next paragraph, they wrote: "All those who know the acute socio-economic situation in Slovenia and are aware of the difficult situation in which our country is located must act responsibly and act in a state-of-the-art manner. We must cut through narrow party interests, forget about old offenses, divide ourselves into "ours" and "yours" and willfully renounce harmful politics and populism. Popular rhetoric and political tactics are unproductive, cause irreparable damage and lead to socially dangerous populism and chaos. There is a high likelihood that groups or ideas that have so far come to light only in times of global crisis will be presented and encouraged by such unhappiness. The Styria initiative must point out this, that history would not needlessly be repeated with us." Why I read this to you – precisely because I fully personally agree with this text and I am sure that the Slovenian Democratic Party fully agrees with this text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u69	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Replica, Mr. Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[advertising from the hall]] It's a replica, look, I got a replica!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u71	Yes, you don't have time, but you can make a procedural proposal. Otherwise, the replica is counted at the time of the parliamentary group, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u72	Look, if this is procedural, okay? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u73	Only a procedural proposal can be made.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u74	The procedural proposal is to respect the views of Members and Members of the National Assembly, the temple of democracy. I've expressed my opinion, I haven't expressed any [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u75	I'm sorry, this is not a procedural proposal, Mr. Misich. I'll turn you off.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u76	Of course! Allow me, I'll explain it first, and then I'll tell you what. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u77	No, it's not. Look, I'm gonna turn you off. Okay? Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, today we are ahead of a responsible task, ahead of one of the most responsible tasks of this House, because we are obliged to face a given situation and we owe it to the budget, to public finances in such a way that we will not affect any sector or area and that we will at the same time maintain a perspective for our children. I must therefore say that I was literally frozen when the rapporteur of the largest parliamentary group proposed that we stop the process of adopting the budget balance. I think it's an incredible irresponsibility. Having positive suggestions is normal, but having an anarchist proposal is not suitable for any party in this House. And if we did that, we'd be working against the next generation. Ladies and gentlemen, if I did not have responsibility and educated modesty, I could tell myself what we care about the balance, what do we care about the rehabilitation of public finances! Let us place Mrs Bratuškovo as Director of the Budget Directorate for one more term of office, open up the budget for a tighter period, make a self-service out of the budget, and we may still survive in this mandate. But that's irresponsible. And I think, ladies and gentlemen, it is time for responsibility. Therefore, I do not understand the political intentions and considerations when the party wants to maintain an open front with the Government. This was seen yesterday by the Committee on the Interior at an extraordinary meeting convened by the party Positive Slovenia regarding the situation between the minister and the police unions. Mrs Kociprova said directly: "Nothing will help the Prime Minister of the Government if he reaches agreement with these unions, with those unions, he will remain open with the police union and it will collapse in the end." She must have missed it. Desire for an open front through which a referendum could be held in the future and the country destroyed and its financial and other foundations destroyed. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that it is time for this party to become a little more dynamic, that the time is approaching for it to become a little fast, not that today the Member swears that the rush is not good. We are in such a situation that we must demand from the government that it is swift in transporting measures and solutions. And finally, if the rush isn't good, then why did you run with a sprinter and bring her to Parliament? I am thinking that in the symbolic field it will help you to think dynamics so that the party will become more receptive, more dynamic, more European. As it appears that the measures are inappropriate and unnecessary to suspend the adoption of the budget and so on, I have the feeling that now one beautiful day, the party President Jankovic will say, "I am not an economist, I am not a manager", as he has so far ensured that he is not a politician. You need to ask yourself that — about identity. And it seems to me that you are defending what has been survived on these soils more than 20 years ago, when in the financial area of Milosevic was defending budget incursions, reckless waste, if they will pay third, and those of us who are old enough know that they have been incurring into the budget at the expense of other republics, and this was Milosevic's policy. The transfer of this Milosevic policy to Slovenian soil is one of the most destructive matters. And we can't afford that. Colleagues and colleagues, yes, I am joining these calls, which have been repeatedly made, we are still in the right and real time, when we can with sobriety take care of the normal future of our children, and for this purpose we need to reduce or reduce in all areas so that we can start investing in time and not only pay interest to the world and financial institutions in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u79	Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u80	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Government representatives, respectable colleagues and colleagues! First of all, it may be possible to stop in today's implementation of the report on the development of Director Umar. I hope that the data that was displayed and told, at least by someone, was sobered, because the numbers that were shown there are alarming. Although some still put their heads in the sand like an old ostrich, something needs to be changed. Personally, I think today is the time to change that. Let me give you some facts as to why I believe that these public finances need to be regulated. It is already worrying that Slovenia in Cyprus is the only country in the euro area that has not reduced the deficit in the last three years. It is also important that Slovenia committed itself already in 2009 to reducing the country's deficit below 3% of GDP by 2013 and, of course, did not do so, so it was definitely delayed in 2009, 2010 and 2011 from this point of view. We do not actually have the possibility of a gradual reduction now, but we need to reduce the deficit fully and within this promised deadline. I think it is of this, and here I agree with some representatives of the Government, also depends on the credibility of Slovenia. Why should austerity measures be taken now? I think that, otherwise, more serious measures will have to be taken in time if we are to even want to be a master in our own country. However, unlike the words of some who still have their heads in socialism and who are used to the old-fashioned printing of money, we do not have time. Why? Because the deadlines are linked to signed agreements at EU level. I don't think anyone wants us to have severe sanctions and more expensive loans in a few months because of non-compliance with the signed agreements or even if no one would ever approve of our loans again, which is obviously the story we're going to have to talk about. In this case, the State could even become insolvent, which at some point could mean that wages, such as public servants or pensions, would not be paid at all. We must also be aware that, despite the adoption of the balance that we are considering today, Slovenia will have to continue to be indebted. I believe that, therefore, we cannot or must not solve the crisis by further deliberation. We are currently in charge of something we are currently using, but we have not even created it. In the last three years, as has been said many times today, the public sector in the country has spent 20% more than it has created. If you spend 20% more each year than you create, how will you invest? It is likely that we will begin to save by ourselves to do everything, to come to the so-called green branch, to buy only urgently at that time, without luxury or missing or unnecessary purchases, only then will we start investing again. In short, we pay the price first, easier, cheaper and less painful. Public sector debt has increased over the last three years, from €8 billion to €17 billion, which I think some people are forgetting today. This means that public sector or state debt has doubled in a broader sense over the past three years, and we will pay so much more for interest. This year almost 700 million euros. Instead of giving these 700 million euros for development, education and other necessary things, including investments to increase the welfare of the country, we are paying this for interest. Thus, we will pay only the interest so much that we can pay all pensioners two additional pensions or all the students and all the students for this money for 2 years. If we are really disciplined, by 2015 we will approximate the budget and thus save the social state. If we do not, then Slovenia is before we are probably all afraid and no one wants to admit that we can start saying good-bye to the social state. Even the Governor of Banka Slovenije has supported the direction of austerity measures, as he says there is no other alternative, so temporary victims are also needed. Furthermore, I would like to point out that it is not at all true that the Government is proposing only measures that reduce expenditure. It also proposes measures to promote economic activity, corporate income tax is declining, including through tax incentives for investment and research and development, the Government wants to encourage investment and job creation. Here are some other measures, the introduction of a financial transaction tax, a capital tax, taxation of motor vehicles, a tax on water vessels and so on. However, I do not support raising VAT as one of the primary measures. In my opinion, a VAT hike would hurt all consumers. However, it seems interesting to me that the applicants for this VAT increase have the illusion that raising VAT would have no effect on price rises. The comparisons show otherwise. And at least those of you who will go on vacation to Croatia this year, I think we will feel it firsthand. So much for this social sensitivity of all those who have family finances hidden in Cyprus or are in a deep minus or do not even know what the majority of the National Assembly is. During the summer, I think that raising VAT would further weaken Slovenian economic activity and consumption. And even those rare economists who even persist in Slovenia would pick up the seams and hooves and wave Slovenia to glory. I am concerned that the opposition in the apparent battle or in the hunt for the tycoon of Slovenia seems to want to drive out all those economists who are at least that successful, maybe want to send someone even to Antarctica. With regard to measures, I think they are quite mild compared to the individual European countries to which we like to compare. Personally, a number of measures would make it even more radical, but I am aware of social dialogue. During these years, there has been a lot of ballast, or action, as in football, everyone thinks that he would be the best coach and that his players, or his position on the field and his tactics, would lead to victory. Unfortunately, there are no winners or losers in these measures today. Perhaps to conclude another sentence on rights and obligations. I have a feeling that in recent years we are only talking about rights, justice, justice, justice, and, obviously, duty is being forgotten in our country. And these rights brought expenditure, and only rare duties brought revenue into the state budget. Order and discipline, including in the field of public finances, have not been talked about in recent years, much to say about our public finances. I therefore believe that the demagogies of the opposition will not solve the situation. However, I believe that today's signed agreement on austerity measures by the social partners is not a demagogy, but a real solution for the future. And may I have some more answers, or some flowers, to discuss during this discussion. Regarding the third development axis, it is interesting, not even 100 days of government, but it is already expected where it will stand or how the third development axis will be built. And for three years, a minister has more than sunbathed in the soybeans and on the sailboats, so this, I would say, pressure on Minister Chernač is incomprehensible. On the other hand, I even suggest that the picture should be reversed and maybe started building on the southern part, we so-called in the southern part of Slovenia are ready to help build the third development axis quickly. With regard to the collapse of the referendum law — if the laws are bad, if they are not harmonised, they fall, not because of the party’s support. Of course, no serious party can support laws that are not consistent with all partners. And maybe even about the fighting pensions. I am very much in favour of this measure – this reduction – and I would be even more radical. These so-called deserving are deserving in a number of ways. We personally think that many of them are not worthy at all, but have, I will say, been in the way of the development of Slovenia in the past. I'll support the rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, ministers and ministers! Today's Finance says: "If the government manages to legitimize public spending, this will have a positive impact on the cost of borrowing the country, indirectly businesses." That's what it says in Finance. Who understands that? He understands the coalition, understands the Slovenian government, understands 14 of the 21 unions. Who doesn't understand? Opposition. I understand the opposition to politicize because it's the opposition. But I don't understand it is critical of these measures, because the whole opposition should be standing in this circle, then kneeling on both knees and asking: "Mea maxima culpa! Dear God, beloved citizens and citizens, forgive us what we have done for the last three years. We're ashamed, we're bowing down. We want and we'll do everything we can to help the coalition get this wagon out of this shit," it's no longer mud, "from this shit starts pulling out." Well, let's do it in a row. Colleagues and colleagues, we have lost credibility both in Europe and in the world over the past three years. At home, we have lost the whole policy and all those involved, including those who work fairly here, unfortunately, because of the following things that have been happening in the world and Europe because we are the country or country that you have been sitting in the opposition for the last three years, and the LDS, which are now gone, some in the SD, which is now another third, have been in debt from 8 to 17 billion. Secondly, the budget charged to pay interest so horribly that we lost three grades, three grades. And thank God it's at least early elections, that you haven't lost our sovereignty yet, because if you haven't, we could be under some patronage by now. During their debate, some have said how difficult it is for them to accept such a balance today. If, then, it is difficult for me too, and how difficult it is for us to try to repair all these anomalies that have consciously been happening. Because, as has been said several times today, the adoption of this balance and, of course, these limitations, which are at this extraordinary meeting, is the first and initial step. Only then is the next to start economic growth and, of course, raise employment, because the beginning of economic growth, the rise in employment, new jobs, only this brings what the Constitution says – the social function of the country. So if we have something, of course we can also spend and spend. And I would be much happier today if we talked about this rebalancing and coordinated different opinions about free education, about the construction of student homes, whether we will build so many in Maribor, Ljubljana, Celje, Koper and I do not know where else. If we talk today, which part of the track, we will adapt the railways first, which state road we will work on, and so on, if we talk about investment in tourism, if we talk about creating new jobs. That would be what would naturally lead us forward. Unfortunately, of course, we are completely on the second topic, actually there, as my colleague Žveglič said in his position, for three years we have been driving with a Mercedes, additionally in debt, and now we have no more bread and water. To talk about cutting the branch we're sitting on, science, education, I don't know what else is. There are many of you, even in this hall, who we went to 30 years and more in schools. Are we missing something? Probably not. True, there were three times fewer teachers and three times more students in schools. And they're not the problem of teachers and teachers, but the more problems of administrative charging teachers and teachers with some extra work just to make it seem that, given that the number of students has dropped, they have increased some work obligation and I don't know what else. I do not agree today, and I will never be able to have teachers sit in the study rooms until 15 July to 15 August and put something up and down there to do so. I've been in school for 10 years myself, and I know how to do it, and I know what a good teacher can be, a good teacher, a good teacher, but of course what it is that deals only with paperwork. I liked the idea that it would be good for us to have such a structure in the National Assembly that the coalition and the opposition would have the same number of Members and Members in working bodies, and only coordinated proposals would go forward. If we had that, we wouldn't be talking about this catastrophic situation today when you're in charge of the country, and we wouldn't be in such a catastrophic situation. Now, clearly, you can't do that because you're the only ones who don't understand what these measures mean, so the only ones in this country that I've mentioned before. And if I'm a little more specific. I also expect our coalition government to come as soon as possible in the next proposal by amending legislation on tax evasion. It will also show how much some ladies and gentlemen have been withholding and tax evasion and not paying to the country today in high political functions, still. Because our judicial system is not working, because we have not yet begun a procedure which is also in the programme of the Slovenian People's Party around the judges, around their mandate and so on. In short, it's time to start moving things around in these areas. To talk a little bit more about numbers; in 2008, those of us in the opposition today, citizens and citizens left the budget with revenues of 8.8 billion and a few more inflows and 8,815 million inflows, that means just over 40 million, 50 million was positive between the tides and the tides. We were aware and respected, and then Mrs Alenka Bratuškov's colleague, when she was in our government, could respect the law that was passed in 1999, then she knew it and then never again. And if she was an expert, I'd put the papers on the table and say, "Listen, Prime Minister, I won't do that in violation of the Public Finance Act." And, of course, she did not do that, and today she would be sending the world to the brain and, of course, to the coalition that is working today. What and how do you answer for everything you've done? Nothing! This is the problem, this is the main problem, of course I warned you about when the 2010 budget was adopted, this was a year and a half ago, because at the end of that debate I asked myself, "as far as I am concerned, we will support this amendment, but believe that there will be a lot of dependence on it, including the life of this country, in 2011, which is coming." And look, because you did not support the amendment, but it was an amendment to the use of European funds, we are today, after 5 years for the period 2007-2013, at 30, 35% of the European funds used, which is of course a disaster. Well, given that I have very little time and should leave it for other colleagues and colleagues, one of the Members also discussed the ability and wisdom of Mr Zoran Jankovic, President of Positive Slovenia. I am sure that if he came to the Arctic, the penguins would certainly have nothing to do with it, it is clear to me that there would be building plots from that ice that would basically enrich his sons, that is also clear to me, but I am sure today, colleagues and colleagues, that he still does not know what most of 90 is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! This rebalancing cannot be supported because it reduces the partisan and veteran pensions, the pensions of the fighters and activists of the Liberation Front who liberated our homeland. Then it also reduces the standard of veterans of the 1991 independence war for Slovenia, for a number of fighters and veterans, this will not be a temporary measure, but a permanent one, so that I will not be positively defined to this national budget rebalancing for this reason. The government has also taken steps to reduce standards in 45 laws, which will also be the subject of one of the following agenda items. However, it did not, for example, embark on the Law on the Slovenian Compensation Fund and the Law on Denationalisation. The Slovenian compensation company also has major obligations under denationalisation and compensation. All of this could also be translated into more favourable and better times, but these two laws are being implemented as normally as possible, although the Slovenian Compensation Society also has, as it is said, very large obligations and could be extended for a longer period of time. This, of course, is not what this government wants to do, nor does it want to touch, but it has gone after the old partisans and their pensions. With regard to the 2012 budget rebalancing, and even a few years ago, I must be honest, I must say that it is very imprudent, because there are only sub-programmes and everything that is in the budget balance or in this document under the sub-programmes and we do not see Members and Members. This is seen only by officials in government offices, not by us Members and Members. Thus, we do not know which investments in the balance remain, which are deleted, which schools will be built, which will not be completed, which hospitals will not be completed, which will not be restored, which cultural monuments will not be restored, and which schools will not be rebuilt, and so on. Or, for example, sometimes in development plans we could see in the framework of the Slovenian Directorate for Roads virtually all the projects that are planned. Today this is no longer the case, and Members actually do not have an overview of the budget, of individual projects, we only have these global numbers. But in the details, of course, there is much to hide, and the truth is also hidden, what is supported and what is not supported. If someone was here from a ministry responsible for culture - I hope that at least the secretary of state is listening to this debate, because the minister is at a meeting of ministers of the European Union and is not in Slovenia today - I would have one question because I do not know whether this rebalancing preserves funds under the law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture or as popularly referred to as the law on cultural tolar or euro, which provided additional 92 million euros to Slovenian culture during the period 1999 to 2011 for investments in public institutions, for the restoration of cultural monuments, for librarykeeping, for amateur activity and for cultural networks. This cannot be seen from this budget balance, so my question is to the representatives of the Ministry responsible for culture to say whether there are still funds under the Cultural Tolar Act in the 2012 balance sheet. As it is said, I will not support this budget rebalancing because of the symbolic point that I spoke about at the beginning of this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u85	Mr. Robert Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! The budget we are correcting today was adopted in 2010, more precisely on 11 October 2010. At that time, when the President of the Government adopted this budget, he said, I will quote only two sentences, "To achieve stabilisation, of course, it is a necessary fiscal discipline. One of the important criteria in our home and among our partners in Europe is to close the budget deficit below 3% of GDP by 2013. Otherwise – and I ask that no one accept this as a threat because it is not, but as a necessary warning that we will be disciplined – we are facing sanctions like all other countries that will fail." What follows from this? Mr Borut Pahor was well aware of what awaits us or what and how things need to be resolved in the coming years, that is, by 2013. At the same time, we all know how things happened and what happened. Currently, Slovenia has a deficit of 6.4% of GDP, not 3%, as it should have by 2013. But more importantly, today's reflection has a basis in the last two months. I am talking about negotiations with the social partners, where there has been a really smart solution. I borrowed one quote from a noble man, from a wise Confucius who said that in three ways a man can act wisely, first after considering it, that is the most noble. Second, by imitating, that's the easiest thing to do. And third time, after experience, that's the bitterest. And if you want to act wisely, it requires a combination of mind and heart, and it's in a balanced dose. A good example is the signing of today's agreement between government representatives and social partners. It is quite clear that saving can be very problematic for several reasons. Many wonder who is to blame for the situation as we are or as we are. Slovenia flourished and then the night was over. More. Stag, fall, fall in most areas. Looking for this moment of guilt, it seems to me that it makes no sense. I think we're at the beginning of a new path up. Whoever brought us into this situation really doesn't matter anymore. Then there is the idea of how to find a way out of this bad luck in all areas. Relying on others is, in my opinion, kicking into the darkness. If we can rely on anyone, then we can be alone and alone. Furthermore, we also need to think of what we like to call the "long track running". If we can't prove that the devil really took the joke, then we really don't get along well, not with us, but with our children who are already looking for their space under the sun abroad, because in Slovenia they don't see the human dignity of a valuable perspective. I say it's sad and worrying that it couldn't have been more. I'm here in the National Assembly for the seventh, eighth year, and I've done a few budgets and rebalancings, if I say so, but this time it's different. They live with this balance and are otherwise accompanied by citizens. Usually, the balance of people wasn't as interested as they are today. As the Prime Minister of the Government said at the outset, it was a psychological problem. But why? This time, indices do not increase in the budget, expectations are limited and items are falling in a row, with the exception of certain bright exceptions. And the balance sheet is the first step, because it is imperative to consolidate public finances. I am sure that measures will follow for economic growth and job creation. Everything I've just listed is extremely interconnected. And I don't take criticism that says we're only working on savings. It's completely, everything I've said to expect within three months of the government having full powers is simply unrealistic. It's not real. By means of the balance sheet and the Public Finance Balance Act, we will take the first necessary step towards reforming or re-energizing prosperity. We are so indebted that the annual amount of interest is 750 million euros. So what was signed today and agreed with the social partners is not enough to pay the interest we have to pay. It will be necessary to start to realize that we can only spend as much as we create. Therefore, the reduction of the deficit is crucial at this point, and I agree with those who claim that this is a prerequisite for strengthening that this is a prerequisite for strengthening the social state. It is interesting that the social partners who have been throwing up fire in recent weeks have realized that the devil has taken a joke, and you in the opposition, I must say that I have received a feeling today that you are still not. On the one hand, you say that everything is too fast and too extensive, and in the same breath, you also demand measures for economic growth, for new jobs and so on. That's unrealistic. I have a feeling that some of you will never be satisfied, even if you have a positive written on behalf of your client. I suggest we get together. Every time I speak to Parliament, I try to act in a way that connects, because I think it's the only way to get out of trouble. I suggest we adopt a fiscal rule to join all of you in a partnership to get out of the crisis, and I think it will be much easier for all of us, and in general for citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u87	Mr. Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u88	The debate of recent months in Slovenia has clearly highlighted the conceptual difference ahead of us, and if you try to illustrate it graphically, this difference is a dilemma between a hollow country that should not be disturbed, and a stronger country that can generate development itself. It turns out that the current ruling coalition is betting on the first concept, so that in the country and in its resources we are no longer promising a more active generation of development. And I think that for the level of development of the Slovenian society in which we are today, this is bad news. If this rebalancing, including all the measures it consists of, in fact, a recipe for short-term recovery, which could be argued with reasonableness and predictability, the second year will lead to real improvement, it would probably be among those who would convince colleagues that it is worth trying to tighten the belt because it is the only way that our economy will recover. The problem is that not only the opposition, but not only part of the unions, not just part of the public, but many serious economists, some of whom are Nobel laureates for the economy, claim and – by the way – I am not alone – seriously warns that such a policy leads to a long-term spiral, a savings-debt spiral. This year's reduction in public expenditure will be known on transfers and wages, which will deepen economic growth, which will reduce revenue and the next year will be ahead of the same task – where to save 800 million euros. I regret that the government has abandoned the concept of the stage of fiscal consolidation. I think there is agreement between us that fiscal consolidation is necessary. There is no agreement between us that it can only be done this way, because this is not true because there are alternative paths and opposition and unions we have talked a lot about these alternative routes in recent weeks and months. I'm afraid they expose themselves, I'll say, to the wrong conceptual framework. It is not true that we are those who oppose these austerity measures and, as a result, this rebalancing, that we are automatic because of this anti-reformist. I am deeply aware that this country needs deep structural reforms if we are to modernise the social state and keep it strong for tomorrow, if we want to ensure equal opportunities for all and if we want the opportunities and potentials of the Slovenian society to develop so that tomorrow they represent added value, from which we will all live better together. But without the active role of the country in either providing these equal opportunities in the form of education, or in the role of higher education, to dynamic knowledge and knowledge brings into economic practice, either through a strong social state and strong and quality public health, which will provide assistance to those who are in distress or are sick that this development concept of the country is not possible. I want you to think about this dilemma, because I think it's crucial. I want to form a consensus within Slovenian policy on this issue. Successful societies, European Northern societies, competitive countries, innovative countries, but also strong social states, have identified political consensus and are now where they are. But that, gentlemen, was not the agreement to tighten the belt. This was a consensus that the country is a strong and smart generator of social development. For these reasons, I cannot support the rebalancing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u89	Mr. Roman Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. I would briefly touch that part – all of us do not fit in the balance, but if the package is like that, it is a package. Well, this balance has finally touched me personally, and we're probably gonna have to get through this. With regard to the agricultural part of the rebalancing itself, I would, of course, like to emphasise the following. The Minister has taken a different path from his predecessors who in the past have worked in such a way that, of course, they have reduced European funds from agricultural policy measures, the delays in payments to Slovenian farmers have shifted to next year, and the jobs and everything else have remained at such a level. This minister is finally trying for the first time to make sure that these measures do not delay more than they have in recent years, but of course he has burdened his services. However, I sincerely hope that these agricultural services will be part of the performance of these tasks, for which they are, of course, assigned. It is true, however, that even in the past, many jobs have not done their job, especially in the field of forestry, we have a wonderful job, a huge job, with a lot of money, but the shade flows to neighbouring countries. The effectiveness of these services will need to be done. Another thing about farmers and this famous VAT hike. The vast majority of Slovenian farmers producing food are not taxable and are on the so-called flat. The rise in this farmer’s upper level is also burdensome, then lower in the flat rate, the costs are higher. On the other hand, those who are in the system, of course, then recalculate again to a lower level, mainly something to sell, and then the state has to pay them back with some delay and there is a cost for the country here, it is said, will have to return more from this title. Before that, there was a lot of talk about responsibility. I am aware that this ruling coalition will be responsible and will have to take responsibility for what it will do. That's logical, and that's a fact. Even on the farm, the master is always responsible for the condition of the farm, never a servant when they were. And even if he did it wrong, the blame was always on the master. And when the line was drawn, of course, it knew who the one who had either drunk or wasted or mismanaged. But maybe there's something else I'd like to point out. Many times it was pointed out that the middle layer is the most burdensome. Now, I don't think it's just true, really, that the middle layer is loaded, but as you know, the income scale has also been changed with the amendment. Because not only have we taken into account the opposition's proposal to temporarily introduce the fourth income class, which will be taxed at 50%, but it is much more important that we raise the threshold for the third income class. So it's a direct tax burden on people with average wages in the country. From our understanding of this, we cannot now say the load of the middle layer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members, Madam Minister, Minister, Secretary of State, a nice welcome once again from this city, from city number 90! I understand the rhetoric of the opposition, I understand the rhetoric of the unions, this is democracy, and I hope that it will always be so, even when the tooth of the time principles will be this beautiful stone sculpture in the lobby of this hall, where two boys are squandering and once there is one above the position, the second is below the position. But I have, I have to say, some good feelings that, despite all of this, our honeymoon distance is somehow getting closer that it's never going to be anything, because then the vehicle flips over. It may be just a property of a flat or pannonic character, but I am sure that I am not mistaken, and when this rhetoric is concluded and when we come to the voting stage, we will only vote as always, according to our conscience. However, I would like to see the criticism of the 2012 budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia correctly, at least by one sentence, why this rebalancing is necessary. See, this 2012 budget had such a gap between consumption and revenue that, in fact, expenditure was 16.4% higher than that expressed in revenue that it was 16.4% higher. This means, look, this means that if we don't do anything to make every sixth euro or even a little bit more, if I'm more precise, every sixth euro we spend on poof, or every sixth euro we spend, we have to take it to puff. Who in the family budget would hope that? Probably none of us. I also wonder whether it is true that our relations or the functioning of the state and the functioning of society are governed solely by money? I'm saying it's not true. Each of us has ever met a successful manager, an economist who was happy to tell him, "I will see, and now I am doing this product in a larger amount with less costs". We know this and we have many in Slovenia. Of course, we also know what the result is, with less cost of production. The result is certainly decency, innovation, new technologies, development. And that is what we have taken into account when we adopted a new tax legislation at the previous meeting of the National Assembly, which promotes economic research and development. You all remember that well. You're saying we're in a hurry. It's true, we're in a hurry, and it's true that we don't do wood. Because if you do, I agree with my colleague Jozet that it could be that we're running into a wall, and we're in a hurry, but it's true. Why? Because we're lagging behind. And anyone who runs on such or different tracks or drives formula 1 gets a signal from his coach or his team that he has to switch to a higher gear, that he has to hurry if he wants to reach the target, somewhere in the golden middle. I'm perfectly satisfied with the middle. You say don't do everything this year. It's true, we don't work. Because if a rebalance or so-called austerity measures were to be made all this year in order to balance the budget, then these cuts should be worth, as I have already said in the position of the New Slovenia Group, about 2 000 200 million. This is hard to imagine, but then it would mean that a little less than every quarter of the euro we spend should be taken to the poof. That probably wouldn't be good for the country. You see that acceptance of proposals by Positive Slovenia or, I will say, by the opposition that we have totally ignored. Look, in those night sessions, when we tried each other, I can say this, but now I really think more about it, because I don't even know how many amendments there were, but so on the thumb, about 10% of all the amendments tabled in the consideration of the Public Finance Balance Act were by the opposition and we accepted them. Approximately 10%. Of course, there are those who were identical with the coalition's proposals. The problems remain and will remain, even when we hope that, I am sure, I will contribute myself to this vote, we will accept this rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for this year, as we will spend about 1 billion more this year than we will create. One billion, a thousand million. I appeal to my colleagues and colleagues from the opposition to try this distance between us, to say a little emotionally, to draw a little closer between our hearts, to show the Slovenian public that we want to do good to this country. One is rhetoric, but when we move on to actions and a Member works by voting, deciding, and then we are much more rational. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u93	Thank you, Mr. Horvath, for a nice thought. Mr. Janez Vasle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u94	Hello, Mr. President. Madam Minister, both ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I'd like to release with my contribution this tension that we've been feeling all day, because we're all here for the same good thing. I don't know if you've read one book by Finnish writer Paasilinn, who originally wrote there, "Death is the most serious thing in life, not too much." And we also had quite a few crises, given the color of my hair and the slightly bent figure, you can think that with my peers I experienced quite a few crises in the former country, only the marital crisis was not among them, but I happily survived them, as you can see. The first thing I remember was information. What it was about, of course, I didn't know, but I remember the terrified and serious faces of my father and our neighbors, because we had the only radio in that railway block where we lived, and they clenched those heads and were pale and debated and so on. Well, it went well. Then there was one crisis, the next I remember, and it was already in Postojna, and it was an international crisis when it was about Trieste and free market territory and we were kids there, 8, 9 years old, shouting, "Give us the guns, let's go to Trieste!" I also remember well the lack of basic goods at the time. I remember that my mother had to go to the store very early, wait in line to get anything. When I was alone at home, because my father was a railroadman and he was away, she emptied the cupboard, the bowl out, and he handed me out into that cupboard so I wouldn't choke and she went out to wait for the row. And I've been waiting real long there. It was also one such crisis. But I remember from that time also the shiny boots of the officials and those leather "mountains", the shiny coats that representatives of the then government had. And now, by the way, I remember who those for whom it is good are all-rounded in all the poverty we have. Well, not to be too long in this archeology, I also remember a time of relative prosperity. World Cup, say, hockey in '66, when we had it, and I also remember that we first met bananas in the working class. Then it started to creak a little towards the end of the 1960s, the early 1970s, and I remember economic reforms, and there was talk of belt tightening and so on. When I finished my studies, even though it was such a reform, despite receiving my scholarship, I couldn't get a job, and they gave me this scholarship just because I didn't ask for a job. Then I remember, even younger ones remember when there was always something missing, from luxury like coffee and chocolate, and meat wasn't in butchers. I remember our butcher there in Mengsha, who had such an empty butchery that he dreamed every night that he was slaughtering, that he was selling meat. Well, there was even a shortage of flour, sugar and so on. At that time, it also began to appear that we were the newspaper that started at the time; of course it was work; but that you knew, because it was a newer copy, that you knew that the German brand’s course was changing daily, that you knew how it was. And if you got paid, you drowned her as soon as you could into stamps to save more. That was the case, but we were lucky that Belgrade was responsible for everything. I remember one Pavliha who had a map of Yugoslavia drawn and one cow notated. He was a goose of this cow in Slovenia and a vigil in Belgrade. Well, anyway, it was kind of going as long as the money ran in, but we had all this stuff in the press, but the tentacles closed down slowly and we started saving. And we remember a couple of driving times. Let's remember the gas vouchers. For example, I remember these gas vouchers, at the time, 1982 to 1986, I went to specialization in pediatrics and did my specialization on a trip from Domžal to Ljubljana and back with a bicycle, because it just didn't work out for the month we had. And remember the deposit. We could have given at the border crossing, I don't know how much, 500,000 dinars of deposit, so we could go across. And you got it back in six months and it was that change. But it was our fault, those who walked across the border, for inflation. Because we went to Trieste for coffee and to Celovec for coffee because he wasn't home. But that was a deposit. Now, thank God, we don't even notice that. I observe and know that a multitude of those who can't put an end to it are increasing, but we can't see these people because they're ashamed because they're not showing up from their situation, even though they're not to blame. Now I'm gonna come to this saving. I see it a little differently. I see more savings in redistribution, because we still see that parking spaces outside supermarkets are occupied, that there are overcrowded carts and so on, if this could be reassigned, it could also help the individual. I do this quite a bit myself in my profession as a doctor and also materially at different ends. By the way, if the opposition colleagues were like that when they were in position, because the Minister of Finance would be the same, if I remember correctly when the government was being formed, [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u95	Time's up, thank you very much. Mrs. Janja the Attack.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable President, Government representatives, esteemed colleague and colleague! I am not entirely sure if we are aware enough that Slovenia is moving away from the average development in the European Union. The available income of the population is also falling dangerously, and structural weaknesses of the economy are also behind. In the fact that we have enough knowledge, however, unfortunately we have come so far that most young people have neither the opportunity to show nor the opportunity to realize their ambitions and knowledge, one rightly wonders where on the way to greater prosperity, security we have lost, fallen into some sort of rhythm of stagnation of thinking about development and science, either in nature or in society. I would like to point out, however, that I do not want to continue to cast too much light on Slovenian sociology and experts in this profession in the pursuit of technological professions. Our future and the opportunity for all people to start living better is in the establishment and encouragement of the economy by means of technological professions, as we are actually living in the world of robotics today. I have recently heard that the debt we have accumulated is a symptom of economic and social errors, which I fully agree with. In the past, we have focused little on technological progress and innovative activity. And that is why we are here to launch this and to establish a policy of cleansing and delinquency, which we are also aware of. On the other hand, I was most concerned by the fact that 258 independent entrepreneurs are registered in Slovenia in domestic and art trade, compared with the construction sector, where there are some more than 12,000. This is also a condition that shows how we have cared for our roots, our identity, and so forth. This could also create greater synergies to encourage the economy, and this sector could also have a good impact on tourism. However, with respect and respect, it is a priority to ensure that savings begin in our country. With so much debt, it is real and I am imagining or expecting a financially stable country by setting up a harmonised savings model, a rule that is a necessity. It would be irrational to think that we do not need these measures to change for the better. The only initial solution requiring greater entrepreneurship in the country would also be to place a fiscal rule in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It is true, however, that it is a great responsibility on the part of the Government to establish a model that will lead Slovenia to a real state of law and operate for at least a decade or two, since the enforcement of laws and other rules and rights is essential for the functioning of a high market economy. But the most important thing in all of this is to change our mentality and not lose our work and motivation. It is also time to get rid of the role of the victim and prevent the brain from escaping into a more free market economy that offers better lives and futures to domestic intellectuals. I do not want the optimism that we can succeed to become just a rhetorical footnote, because everyone in his modesty and greatness can contribute to a better society and state in our country. Dear Members and Members, me and many of you have also received letters from those citizens and citizens who trust in austerity measures besides those letters of concern about the conduct of the government. And in them I was invited and asked to take responsibility and vote for the rebalancing and balance of public finances and take responsibility for the future of Slovenia. And I absolutely agree with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u97	Thank you. Mag. Andrej Shircelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Say good-bye to everyone again! Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that the adoption and then the implementation of this balance and the law, which is some kind of twin to this regulation, will lead to great winners and great losers. After all, it is only an evolution in the field of reducing spending, it is said that it is what is necessary for us to bring our spending into the real framework. Based on such reduced spending, of course, there will be a lot of development opportunities, projects are being prepared, infrastructure projects are being prepared, road projects will be amended by further measures, including the condition of management, greater legal certainty will be ensured and, of course, will be supported by this budget. In fact, only real consumption and non-indebtedness provide the basis for development and, of course, for a higher standard of citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u99	Mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Today we accept a rebalancing that basically means deployment. The process of redistribution or harmonisation of income and expenditure and, of course, is necessary because it was unrealisticly planned two years ago. Any government should take this step, as the spending of resources, as planned at the time, is, of course, unsustainable. Unfortunately, however, we also have average economic results and an average burden. As a result, of course, no one wants less social benefits, but over the long term, this objective of over-average economic results and over-average benefits cannot be achieved, and we must therefore adapt the level of public spending to the ability of the economy. I myself have paid particular attention to family policy in government measures, because I have children myself. And I must say that I am pleased that the government, despite everything, even though we can say that we are not happy with everyone, has prepared these measures so that they are relatively more burdened by those with higher incomes. For example, the children's allowance is abolished by the two upper classes, the others remain, so to speak, we are talking about the abolition of child allowances for those who have more than €650 net per family member. There has also been a lot of ink spilled on school food subsidies, but the parents of the children who have higher income will no longer have it subsidised, and for the socially disadvantaged it remains. Indeed, parental compensation is lower by 10%, but we still have above average in comparison with other countries. The assessment of the financial implications and the figures on the balance sheet show that the government attributed the most careful consumption to itself in the salaries of public servants and, of course, in the actions within the state administration and the public sector. Just as we are trying to overcome left and right division in the National Gazette, we are also convinced that the public sector needs to be seen as inclusive. One's not without the other. The public sector is a guarantee of a successful economy and must be in good and bad together. And, of course, the public sector must also share the fate of the economy. And if the economic results are worse, we must also feel this on our skin when we are employed in the field of non-economic activity, because it is also our responsibility to ensure an adequate business environment for the economy. Here it could be touched by a measure which in the Public Finance Balance Act allows a legally permissible way of terminating a contract of employment for those who already fulfil those conditions. To claim that this is a drastic measure is, in my opinion, excessive, because it is certainly a better solution than the dismissal of public servants. I feel that in life sometimes it is necessary to take a step back so that two can go on. I think that the country of Slovenia is also in this situation right now. At this point, we will really tighten the belt, even in any area that we do not like most, but will also relieve the economy, the appropriate measures on the revenue side are included in the law, and thus our economy will be breathtaking and the public sector will become more vital. Of course, we don't want anyone to get hurt. Also in terms of economic growth. No one claims that the leased billions did little to help the economy. However, the problem is this, and this is a key message of the debt crisis in Europe, that such a way is not sustainable in the long run and that we can spend as much as we create. In the Civil Gazette, we believe that these measures will restore our country's impaired credibility, enable it to benefit from the conditions of funding and somehow lay sound foundations for economic growth. The structural reforms referred to by the Minister of Economic Affairs were mentioned. Indeed, the ink on the proposals for the first structural reforms has been drying since 2002. At that time, it was too good for us to understand the need to make this Slovenia more competitive. Today, however, we are doing too little to keep our eyes closed or, if you want, to oppose this government at all costs. The Council will not adapt to Slovenia. Slovenia must adapt to the world. I would conclude that at some point every generation will be called to the courts of history. Those before us, including some fighters, have sacrificed more than we can imagine today, that we could live in prosperity and peace. Let us show that we are worthy heirs. The very balance of public finances I understand as a call to our generation, but also to our burden. And the only way to avoid it is to put it on our children. And we're not going to agree to that in the Civil War. I believe that even the vast majority of Slovenes and Slovenes are not. Economic crises are living out of fear and recklessness, so let us act courageously and thoughtfully. For this reason, I will be alone and will support the balance sheet and the law on public finances in the National Gazette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u101	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honorable representatives of the government! Some things, however, need to be answered. Someone said there's only one way out of this crisis. There's never one way. And even in Europe, there is a different view of which of the way is better, more efficient and more acceptable for a large majority of people. More and more, the view is that it is not just saving. Moreover, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the OECD report in February this year also states that the strongest message is that we will pay the price if we do not worry about lifelong education and raising the education structure. Who will pay the price in some developed economies, in some developed Western societies? This price is paid by young people. And that is why I am surprised that so much sulphur is poured after the opposition, which is merely performing its function as the opposition has in every democratic state, and this is that the responsible, reasoned response to what the coalition offers. The coalition has chosen a way out of the crisis, as can be seen from the balance sheet and the law on the balance of public finances. And these two documents, in their original form, will be supported and I cannot embark on such a path because, in most cases, we have to invest more in R & D and education to improve the competitiveness of the economy, to develop, to balance sustainable development. We say we want to become a knowledge society and we focus most of the austerity measures and cuts on education, science and culture. 75% of net cuts are in education and science and higher education, 110 million in this latter and 174 million in education. And what was the position of the opposition in pointing out that there was actually a structural shift of Slovenian society behind the supposed austerity measures. These are the worst cuts that especially affect educated, especially women, because if you look at where these cuts go and where 8% of the salary cuts will also show the most, not only as a short-term effect, but also later on age, when this is reflected in a lower pension base. So if we look at which groups are most affected, I find that not all are equally affected. It is good that trade unions have succeeded in withdrawing the amended standards and standards from the proposed laws. Whether they're really withdrawing, we'll see about the law tomorrow. I have not yet seen amendments in this regard that this could claim to be, but whatever pressure from the opposition, trade unions and civil society has helped to ensure that some of the most unacceptable, most unbalanced and excessive cuts in education without any clear idea of what the consequences of these measures will be promised to withdraw from the legislation. See, the proposed measures affecting higher education and science have also been reflected in the proposed amendments to the balance. The opposition proposed a 32 million-dollar correction, the coalition voted an 8-million-dollar vote. Now, what can this do to run higher education programs in the second half of this year? Where does that lead? Yeah, if we cut like that, we'll be dealing with tuitions at the second bologna level sooner than before. What does this mean for research and development? Now, here, allow me, but I'm going to do some research, and I'm going to do some analysis, because it was possible to hear so many flat-rate negative judgments about the state of Slovenian science and education, that there is something to be said. See, the expenditure on R & D as a share of gross domestic product in 2010 in Slovenia was a slight over the EU average, average for EU 2, with us 2.11. When I look at the gross domestic expenditure on R & D, I have the data back from 1996 to 2011. Average growth during the worst economic crisis – from 1.66 in 2008 to 3 in 2011. Or if you were looking at a gross domestic product and a share of R & D, it's even bigger again. I could also help you with data on the number of scientific publications per million population because it was also heard as well as that our researchers were completely unproductive. 2 000 78, and it is also a decimal, compared to a thousand 830 as an average in the OECD and a thousand 511 as an average in the European Union. It is true that the number of publications has not yet revealed all about quality, but the number of publications – including in Science and Nature, which are the two most recognised scientific journals – is growing. There is something to say, however, that we are incomparable compared to other European countries because we have the most unstable funding for science. And here we should do something. And, of course, one of the conclusions of this analysis, which I am relying on and which was created at the University of Maribor, is that it is necessary to improve places on European and global scales of excellence, competitiveness, performance, economic growth, quality of life, sustainable development and so on. But there's nothing without it! Without investment in this segment, we will not achieve anything. And that is why I, as well as the next document, cannot support, because I am responsible, as an opposition Member, I am responsible. Although they did not hear me when I spoke much, and at a meeting of the committee which is the parent committee for this, in a multi-year discussion the government spoke about both laws for less than 10 minutes. There are reasons for non-support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u103	Thank you. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u104	Dear Mr President, honourable Minister, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, respectable citizens and citizens! Maybe a little bit to break up the seriousness. It is, of course, difficult to say anything really creative after such a long discussion. For such excellent speakers as they were before me, I have even a little nervous, and yet I will try to add my contribution. Undoubtedly, we all agree – and here I believe that there is no difference in the National Assembly – that expenditure needs to be reduced, at least as much as the proposal, or even more, because it is not going well, which we all know is essential to spend more than we create. The only difference is what our expectations are, to whom and how much to reduce. However, it would be good to listen well to each other, as well as to our citizens and citizens. Of course, I have no doubt that the budget and the law on public finances balance will not be adopted. Personally, however, I think that the day of adoption may also begin to change, as we are living in a dynamic, turbulent environment where changes need to be introduced quickly. Personally, I think it would be good, if not now, but in the future, to make some corrections that I have already discussed on the Committee on Finance. In fact, if someone with a net salary of €600 or €700 is reduced by 8%, this is significantly greater than if someone with a net salary of €7,000 or €4,000 is reduced by 8% or a few hundred. In the face of a normal life, it takes so much and so much money, the so-called basket of necessities of life, which is charged and unfortunately we no longer guarantee it. I expect and believe that, of course, our citizens and citizens expect the government to rule. This means that it will take measures to enable citizens and citizens to live. I'll tell you in concrete terms. Of course, we first adopted a very rich salary reform, were very generous in various ratings and transfers, although a certain part of the economy or almost the whole of the economy was long ago, it was not three years ago when Borut Pahor took over the government, he warned that we would not last because we are not creating enough. However, now we are where we are, and of course taking it is difficult. I expect to continue where I left some sort of red thread, that the government, with its orders, will reach conclusions where it can. This means that if now our citizens and citizens, in this case of course the most public sector, the economic sector has been experiencing problems for several years anyway. If its revenues are reduced, it will also, of course, adopt conclusions that municipal services and other services related to public utilities and the sector will also be reduced. Because my time has run out, of course, it's best that I finish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u105	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss the general part of the budget? Yeah, I'll reopen the application. Please, you can sign up. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye again! In some discussions, it was still apparent that the balance we have today is due mainly to the fact that the situation has not been controlled in the last three years and that this is why such drastic interventions are needed. Here again, I would like to make it very clear that Slovenia's ratings have started to fall since reforms started to fall. In particular, the pension reform was the one that was necessary and also life, given the number of beneficiaries of pensions in Slovenia, and also the fact that there were fewer and fewer employees due to the economic crisis. This fact also needed to be transposed into legislation and thus balanced by public finances. In fact, more money than you give in to the budget to pay the pensions you deserve is, of course, less for development. And the important difference between what is happening today and what was happening in the previous mandate is that there have always been proposed measures to reduce spending and, of course, to increase revenue. In fact, the chain collapsed precisely at that point when, in fact, referendums were encouraged at all costs, without a sense of responsibility for what would happen if these important measures were not taken to balance public finances. And here we have really faced situations where the opposition has so socially participated in these debates and has encouraged a referendum as well as, of course, trade unions, which today appear to have also lost a sense of reality as to whether these measures that have been proposed are really so drastic that they could not be supported and concluded by a social agreement and agreement in a way that, of course, they could also be put into effect in practice. And at this point, when we are in opposition, it is essential that we be aware of the consequences of the narrow political interests, only to come to power, and also some to justify their existence as trade unions, but they did not care much about the situation of the country and the situation of the people in Slovenia. And today it is the fact that the most difficult situation is precisely those who, of course, receive slightly higher incomes, that we can talk about not receiving the lowest wages or minimum wages, although it is necessary to stress and it is right that we have raised the minimum wage in the previous term to ensure a decent life. Ensuring a decent life is one of those criteria that must be given priority in Slovenia. These interventions that we are dealing with in this balance will not, according to our assessment, provide a decent life for many families, many individuals and many institutions, which are essential for life in Slovenia to be organised and that we know, of course, what we are doing. This measure, such a drastic measure, is simply interfering with the reduction in the use of EUR 800 million, will have problems or will cause additional problems both in economic growth and in human standards. And once again, I would like to point out that this standard of people will not be worse because the previous government has not proposed something, it has been accepted everything, please, here in the National Assembly, it has fallen through processes that have arisen outside the National Assembly and with the help of discussions in the National Assembly that this has happened. And it is precisely from this awareness that we do not want to cause the same problems, that we think it is right to try to draw attention to the differences and the shortcomings we see in these proposals. And these are actually cutting too deep in 2012, the decline in economic growth will certainly be a significantly reduced standard of living, and of course we note that a certain circle of people you leave almost untouched, and these are indeed those who have the most assets and the most income in the country. And this imbalance is something that, of course, needs to be discussed at today's session – be sure if this balance and the law on public finances balance are adopted, then there will be even more talk there, I would say, after the summer when these measures will also work in practice. Then perhaps you will understand why we have pointed to what we are talking about today. It is also a fact that we do not feel a development priority in this balance. In the previous mandate, we have clearly highlighted the development of rail infrastructure. When the government, the leadership of the country, was taken over in 2008, no project was prepared. The motorway programme was concluded, there was nothing prepared for railways, nor on the development axes, nor on the third development axis, 3A, nor on the fourth axis. Of course, we've driven all these things into motion. Today I ask the Government why it has decided to take such a drastic step to reduce investment in rail infrastructure. Many projects are prepared, many of them are built into space and need renovations and reconstructions to take on greater burdens, allow greater speed and thus develop places where these railways also lead. By proposing the repeal of the Law on earmarked means for financing railway infrastructure, with a view to dispersing this money again, partly on the railways or very little on the railways and again on the roads, I feel that we are returning to a period when it is not a priority whose investments are needed for development, but it has the advantage of that yard of every individual who is, say, here in Parliament or in the cabinet of the Ministry and wants to have an asphalted yard from the state budget. If money goes for these purposes, then you can believe that in a few years we will have even more problems than if we organized today to solve the most important infrastructure projects. And I really ask why it was necessary to reduce the resources needed to maintain public rail infrastructure where no additional permits are needed, such as the nomadic line, which should have been completed in 2012. The programme provided €21 million; you put it at only €2 million in 2012. Can I Have an Answer — Why? The dedicated resource is still valid, but this dedicated resource is directed elsewhere on purpose. The former government has decided to help those areas most affected by the economic and financial crisis in an organised manner. We have adopted a law for Pomurje, for Poklopje, where Bela Krajina, Kočevska, we have adopted a law on coherent regional development, which stipulates that where unemployment is greater than 18%, we intervene with additional measures. And I ask how many of these additional measures are planned in this rebalancing, when will the first call for new jobs be for the expansion of production. The infrastructure I have mentioned is an integral programme for the development of this area, this area does not have motorways, this area will now not even have railways and has outdated road infrastructure. And a very specific question: When can we expect the end of the line against Kočev, when can we expect the first call for economic assistance in the area of Pokolpja, White Krajina and Kočevska, at what level, and do you implement the decision of the previous government that this area has priority in all calls and has priority in all priorities of individual ministries? Whatever you agree with the individual ministry on how you will lead the development, it is the decision of the previous government to favour such an area, which is borderline, where there is great unemployment, where there are major economic problems where intervention is needed. Can I have an answer as to how much is planned for such areas in this budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mrs. Patricia Shulin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u108	Madam President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! As a person faces up and down during his life, success and failure, so does the state. And if an individual or family is to behave appropriately in the event of changed economic capabilities, then I understand that the country must also act. If the Slovenian public deficit already amounts to more than 6.4% of gross domestic product and has to be reduced below 3% by 2013, in a sustainable and credible manner, then it must do something today and not tomorrow, quickly and not until next year, but certainly after a thorough consideration by the Government, which also proves the signature of the 26 trade unions' commitment not to submit referendum requests. Contrary to the opposition, which, as I understand it, does not see any real solution in any of the government's actions. The government is primarily concerned for Slovenia and its countries, for its future generations, so this high awareness and effort to enter the fiscal rule into our constitution. If we do not reduce the deficit below 3% of the gross domestic product in the coming year, it can stop us from making payments from the Cohesion Fund due to non-compliance with the Council's recommendations. I agree that a favourable environment for economic growth needs to be created, but for greater investments only the budget can no longer be, but with clear measures both domestic and economic policies we need to give a clear signal to foreign investors, which we have not been doing very well so far. And in this area, we have already taken some measures last month, but these are measures that are not immediately reflected. I have to say, for me, it's a mystery how you start an economy with penguins in Antarctica. It's also a mystery to me how you can have a family property worth 14 million euros if you're employed in public administration, in a public company, or if you're a mayor, for example. In my opinion, this is possible only if you have almost entirely inherited such property or obtained it illegally. In such cases, which are visible in everyday life, public perceptions come from taxation of the rich, but we must separate them from those who have acquired their property in a legal way and from those who have acquired it illegally. And the last ones have to worry us. At this point, I welcome the measures taken by the Government towards the establishment of a specialised tax control group with the possibility of using a tax debt insurance institution with temporary seizure or the blocking of assets. This means that there is also a need to increase the effectiveness of control over the implementation of tax rules and the payment of compulsory duties and to strengthen and extend the control procedures of various activities, in particular the risk and grey economy, in the joint work of the Tax and Customs Administration. Kids are our future. That's right. Parents' concern for amending school legislation also stems from the wrong interpretation of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. The Secretary of State stressed that the branch schools would not be discontinued and that it was never intended to do so, since they meant branches in smaller areas, in rural areas and in demography-threatening places, the development of the place. This does not mean, in concrete, practical terms, that the branch schools of Solkan, Gragar, and Trnovo are not terminated, which also means that there is no abolition in the country of branch schools. Similarly, a parental school that becomes a branch school in places where there are two or more primary schools, as a result of the common school environment. Nothing's over, it's just the status of the school. I believe that the transition to a change in the number of students in schools will be arranged in an appropriate manner. However, I would like to point out that none of the schools in our country are discontinued. If we have spent almost two days and nights in the National Assembly of the Committee of Finance and Monetary Policy as members of the national working body, that was probably all that was necessary. And if we all understand that the situation is difficult, that there is a need to reduce the public financial deficit, then I hope that we also understand that in this situation everyone who is not socially at risk is contributing in accordance with the measures proposed by the Government. And I believe that the government has done the maximum in the given situation and in the given possibilities that we all know. I note, however, that the opposition is essentially concerned about the unity of the current coalition, which has not existed in the previous government and has fallen because of internal disputes and not because of the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Despite the time that we have relatively little to discuss in the general work, I am reopening the debate if anyone else wants to discuss it. Nobody wants another debate in this part. Is that your procedural question? Please, Mr. Weber, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u110	Thank you, Madam President. We are discussing the most important document in this mandate. I must admit that the Government is practically not involved in the debate. Nevertheless, I think there have been some concrete questions, but I think that there have been some concrete reflections on how and what will be the consequences of adopting this balance and what in the event that these consequences actually occur, due to insufficient resources for the functioning of the state system. On such a question, I think that the Government should also get an answer, as this is also the subject of a debate in the National Assembly. President, I motion procedurally that you call on the Government to provide answers to the questions raised by Members and Members in the 2012 debate on the rebalancing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u111	Thank you very much for your proposal. Of course, the government can come forward whenever it wants to or needs to. I assume it will also take place in the context of the discussions on specific work. In this part, I conclude the debate and inform you that the vote on the general part of the draft budget rebalancing proposal will take place on Friday 11th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 5. 2012 in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. We are moving on to the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal. Again, I'm asking, does anyone want to discuss it? I only see one hand, so I give my word to Mr. Sam Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! I would also like to receive an answer to my question, which I have already raised in the first part of the debate on the rebalancing, whether funds have been provided in this 2012 budget balance for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture. It is said that funds are provided for the implementation of the law on so-called cultural tolar or euro. I would ask if the government could answer that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody wants to talk anymore. I explained earlier that the government could come forward and answer if it wanted to. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Given that the Government obviously does not want to give an answer and engage in this debate, I am procedurally proposing that they leave the Chamber, because they are not actually participating in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I'm sure they're listening to these suggestions. I'm sure it's good. Mr. Minister Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u116	Good-bye! Dear Members and Members, Honourable Vice-President, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! I spent most of that day here among you today. In these discussions, Mr Židan addressed some of the issues relating to agriculture and the environment. There were also some other questions concerning other colleagues. I will try to answer something or say my views in this general part of this public debate, which has been very extensive in the vocabulary that we have already been used to in the Slovenian public space in recent weeks. However, I hope that reason will prevail and that this year, this difficult year, when certain drastic measures are to be taken in Slovenia, as we have heard, today and in recent times we will not take, may be the first time that this is so difficult. However, I believe that we will face similar problems in the autumn when we have to draw up a budget for 2013 and 2014. As far as the work on agriculture and the environment is concerned, I can calmly reply that we have taken into account the fact that wage policy will change within seven months of this year. This has also led to a certain reduction in the integral part of the budget. After these negotiations, a recalculation will be needed. In line with the government's direction, it is agreed that we will seek further internal reserves that will be necessary, because at the start of the negotiations it was not exactly clear whether wage imbalances will be eliminated or will not be eliminated, whether it will be a flat-rate reduction or just a linear reduction in wages, and this has a bearing mainly on the part of our sector where there is a whole range of public services, where some have quite a backlog with both pay cuts. As far as the rest of the agricultural work is concerned, we have had this logic that we have tried to maintain the current pace as it has been in recent years in the part of the rural development programme and also in the area of the subsidy policy, it is said that these funds, which are, in fact, from three quarters to eighty-five percent of the European Union's resources, are being paid in the course of the current year and that we are also following this pace in the rural development programme. We expect to implement this part of the agricultural policy, which is also crucial in providing self-sustainment in the Slovenian space, with the existing means. As far as cohesion policy is concerned, the programme, when today's talk on European funding has taken such an approach in all areas that the budget has found what the conclusions of the signed contracts are for, and we estimate that it is realistic to see things happen this year. However, it did not work in this model as in the past years, when each ministry saved itself an extra set of funds just in case there were any more projects. Then we have witnessed, as all of you well know, that half or less of the planned funds were made available at the end of the year when European funds were drawn from. As I have already said, this year's principle is that the funds in the amount for which the conclusions were issued were signed contracts in the budget, even in the cohesion work it is. In the framework of the country's budget reserve, however, resources are provided to transfer over the course of the year to cohesion projects for this integral part, as well as the lack of resources for Slovenia, which can always benefit from additional resources. In particular, cohesion, which is combined, as you know, from the environment-transport infrastructure, comes in the area that Mr Weber highlighted in the rail sector to a number of cases where it is simply found that now that the mid-year budget is also preparing that it is simply not possible to implement certain projects – this is what I am saying from the discussions of the Government – and in particular the second track project has also come to the conclusion that there is actually too little time for these funds to be realized during this cohesion period. Therefore, within the coordination which, after each meeting of the Government, Mr Žerjav, Minister of Economic Affairs, is already preparing a proposal to transfer some of the cohesion funds to other areas. As you have seen in the budget itself, it is really difficult to say this year that any of the Members, or ministers, or cabinet members have been looking for those corners in their vicinity, because we see that investments in the wake of the situation are very shrinking. This reallocation, which, especially for railways, notes that one part of the funds will be redeployed, is mainly intended for energy efficiency and renovation of public sector buildings where we estimate that savings are also largely possible. So much for those areas concerning our ministry, and in one part also from these joint debates about the use of European funds itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We have exhausted our desire to discuss, so I am concluding the debate on a specific part of the proposal for a rebalancing. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 10 May 2012. We are transferring to the user under order number 1511, the General Secretariat of the Government. I am putting into discussion the activities of political institutions and the amendment tabled by the following proponents: the Group of the Positive Slovenia, the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Group of the Social Democrats, the Group of the National Gazette, the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia and the Group of the New Slovenia. If you allow me, my fellow Members and colleagues, I will continue to use the word of the coalition for all these last mentioned by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, so that we do not read more than we need to. Well, there's an amendment in the debate that I've made. Anybody want to talk? I understand that we are, you are limited in time. I don't see any desire for a debate. We are moving to the next budget user, namely the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, where amendments to the four sub-programmes are tabled, namely the sub-programme Support for the restructuring of non-financial corporations is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] To the sub-programme Promoting foreign investment and the openness of the economy, as well as the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. There's no debate. Third sub-programme Support for technological development projects, where the amendment was also tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u118	Dear Vice-President, while we now have the opportunity to listen to this over and over, we all know that time is no longer available, so I suggest you ask whether anyone else intends to discuss the amendments at all, in order to complete this ridiculous reading, which is really liquid for you and all of us. We all know what time it is – there will be no debate, except for those who still have time and let them tell you. But I wouldn't want to disturb you by performing your mandatory cycle as prescribed, if that's your decision. But I don't think there's any particular reason we wouldn't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u119	Thank you very much for the procedural proposal. Otherwise, I would agree with you that it is a little awkward for me to read so much time, in fact, the same things, but we will stick to the rules of procedure. Some still have time to discuss and may wish to join. Of course, in this place any amendment can potentially involve the Government if it so wishes. So, let's move on. The sub-programme shall support the restructuring of non-financial corporations where the amendments have been tabled by the MEP. Barbara Žgajner Tavš and Ambassador Jože Velikinja. We are moving to the next user, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property, where we have one sub-programme and an amendment tabled. The sub-programme is called the Business Environment for Entrepreneurship and Competitiveness, where the amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. Does anyone want to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving to the next user, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the sub-programme of measures to stabilise the market. The amendments have been tabled here by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. I'm guessing there's no debate. We are moving to the next user, the Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the Safe Food and Veterinary Sub-programme, where the amendments have been tabled by parliamentary coalition groups. I would still ask you to give me a clear and loud break if you had any desire to discuss it, or we would go through it as quickly as possible. We are with the user of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, the Sub-programme Transport and Transport Infrastructure and the amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. The following user, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the sub-programme for the remuneration and rights of unemployed persons, where we have an amendment tabled by the coalition and also a change to this amendment which you received on the bench. I don't see the desire to discuss this subroutine and this amendment. The following sub-programme is a sub-programme for social assistance, protective allowances and other transfers to ensure social security. The amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. The following programme of this user is a sub-programme of Social Protection Services, the amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. Under the sub-programme Family benefits and parental benefits, the amendments have been tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups, including the amendment to this amendment, which you have received on the table as well as the rest. Followed by sub-programme Family benefits and parental benefits. The amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. The delegation of the Positive Slovenia Group has also tabled an amendment to the Sub-programme Child and Family Protection. Similarly, the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia amendment to the sub-programme Hospital Refunds and other transfers to the sick. These were sub-programmes relating to the user of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Now we are switching to the user of the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport. We have eight sub-programmes, the first of which is the higher education sub-programme. The amendments were tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia and the Group of the Social Amendments. It's the first amendment. However, the other amendments to the same user and to the same sub-programme have been tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups. Did I see the desire to discuss it? Check in, Mrs. Potrat, if you'd like to sign up. Unfortunately, I must formally conclude that the time for discussion is up. And we are moving on to the next sub-programme, this is a sub-programme of Research programmes and projects where two amendments have also been tabled, namely the first amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia and of the Group of Social Democrats, and the other amendments have been tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups, including the amendment you received on the bench. The following subprogrammes are Human resources in support of science, higher education and technological development. The two amendments, the first of which were tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia and the Group of the Social Democrats, were tabled by members of the coalition. We are moving to the sub-programme Research Infrastructure, where two amendments have been tabled. The first amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia and the Group of Social Democrats and the second amendment tabled by the members of the coalition, together with the amendments. The next sub-programme is to support technological development projects where amendments were tabled by members of the coalition, together with an amendment. We continue with the preschool education programme. The amendment was tabled by members of the coalition and they also tabled an amendment to the amendment. We have another amendment to this sub-programme, namely the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. We are moving to a sub-programme of Primary Education, where two amendments, the first amendment of Members of the Coalition and the second amendment of Members of the Parliament of the Positive Slovenia Group are also tabled. Next subprogramme Programmes in culture and media. However, four amendments have been tabled to this sub-programme, if I see them correctly, the first amendment being tabled by members of the coalition, the second amendment by the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia, the third amendment also by the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia and the fourth amendment by the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. We're moving to a new user, this is a user of the Koper District Court. Sub-programme Alternative dispute resolution and amendment of the Group of Ambassadors Positive Slovenia. User of the District Court in Kranj, sub-programme Alternative dispute resolution and amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. User District Court in Ljubljana, sub-programme Alternative dispute resolution and amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. User District Court in Maribor, sub-programme Alternative dispute resolution and amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. User of the District Court in Murski Sobota, sub-programme Alternative dispute resolution and amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. User of the District Court in Novi Gorica, sub-programme Alternative dispute resolution and amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. User of the District Court in New Town, sub-programme Alternative dispute resolution and amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. User District Court in Krske, sub-programme Alternative dispute resolution and amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. User District Court on Ptuj, sub-programme Alternative dispute resolution and amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. User of the District Court in Slovenj Gradec, sub-programme Alternative dispute resolution and amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. And the last user of the District Court in Ljubljana, as well as the sub-programme Alternative Dispute Resolution and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. We have a debate at our disposal if we want to, but I find that there is not actually going to be a debate on this work. I conclude the debate, also formally, and inform you that the vote on the amendments and the specific part of the proposal for a rebalancing and budget in accordance with the timing of the meeting will be held on Friday, 11. 5. 2012, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 6th item of the agenda or no later than 20.55. We are moving on to the consideration of the Development Programme Plan. We're still in the available time, but I'm asking, who wants to discuss it? No one wants to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate. The vote on the Development Programme Plan will take place on Friday 11th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 5. 2012, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. We are now moving on to a full debate on the proposal for a budget rebalancing. Would anyone like to discuss this? Since I do not see the desire for a discussion, I conclude the debate and inform you again that the vote on the proposal for a budget rebalancing will take place in full accordance with the timing of the meeting on Friday, 11. 5. 2012, in the framework of the vote, after an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. With this, we interrupt this agenda item and move on to 3. Agenda item — Defence proposal for a law to balance public finances by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this point, two other legislative proposals were tabled in the legislative procedure, namely the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Police following a reduced procedure submitted by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Peter Wilfan, and the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Income, the first hearing submitted by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Janko Webro. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy decided, in the course of its discussion of those proposals, to deal with them in accordance with Article 117, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, he decided that the follow-up procedure, in accordance with Article 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, would be guided by a proposal for a law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure, I now give the floor to the motions for additional explanations. First, I give my word to the government's representative. I see Dr. Janez Šušteršič will speak on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u120	Respected and respected! The Public Finance Balance Act is, as you yourself have already established, a law that is prepared in a way that, in relation to the budget and public finances, we probably have not yet prepared laws in Slovenia. This is a law that changes the individual provisions of 45 other laws. Why have we decided to take such an approach? This is because, as is generally known, most of the expenditure in Slovenian public spending is justified in one way or another by certain legal provisions. Various evaluations in the past have shown that between 80 and 90 percent of all expenditure is in the past, as has been said by laws. This has also often been used as an excuse to say that, for example, the Government has not prepared more radical measures, changes on the expenditure side and so on, because it has been said, the Government has hardly adapted itself because expenditure is based on legislation. Of course, we have said, but we are now in a situation where it is imperative to amend or adjust expenditure, and if it is necessary to amend legislation, then we will or will propose it to the National Assembly. We have done, as I have already said, several rounds of coordination with the ministries, ministers and ministers themselves have proposed certain adjustments, and there is no need for many to have a legal basis, because there is savings in individual programmes, projects, and many of them need such a legal basis. This law is now before you, even on the basis of negotiations with the social partners in recent days, even on the basis of hearing the arguments of the public, the opposition, the various stakeholders, also by the government coalition, has been amended. We believe that this is now a law that we can say that, in view of the situation in which we are, it is necessary and that, according to its actions, it is, however, at the same time, at the goal that we had to set ourselves, in the best possible way, balanced and sustainable. This law, the fact that such an intervention is such a change that it is necessary, without it, to enter into a situation which would be public finances, not only publicly and socially, but also economically difficult for Slovenia, this fact has been acknowledged in its own way by those who may be the most vulnerable or have or have others as representatives of social interests, is to say trade unions. Of course, they did not say that these measures were beautiful and that they were enthusiastic, but most of them today have committed themselves not to apply referendum requirements or support them if they do. Such a decision by trade unions shows that it is possible to convince the majority of the public with arguments that this fiscal adjustment is necessary, that it is substantially different from what we propose, that it would not be possible to prepare and implement at this time, and we expect this law to receive adequate support in the National Assembly as well. The financial effects of the law are estimated at around 500 million reductions in expenditure next year to around 750, because some measures are of a nature such that their impact will not be fully demonstrated until next year. What's been changed in the last few days with the amendments. There'll be another one today, too. In the light of the latest arrangements, we will ensure that we reduce some other items in the budget or find them in accordance with the capacity afforded by the Law on the implementation of the budget, the possibility of adjustments, redeployments, and in particular some reallocations from other items to payment items and other benefits from public sector work. All together, I have said this several times, the assessment is between one hundred and one hundred and fifty, maybe one hundred and thirty million, but this is something that can be ensured in the context of the envisaged deficit, and it is something that makes sense to adapt the proposal to the law, so that we have at least this assurance that the law will not be challenged to the referendum and that we can continue to do other things that the Government must do here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u121	Thank you very much. On behalf of the motioners for a law on amendments and additions to the Police Act, Mr Peter Wilfan was announced, which I do not currently see in the Chamber, so I would like to give the floor to the representative of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Income Act, Mr Matevž Frangež. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u122	Respected and respected! Social Democrats are aware of the situation in which Slovenia is. Moreover, we have not experienced any enlightenment recently, as many have in the Slovenian political space; we are aware of the situation and dangers for Slovenian society for a longer period of time, so today we are also maintaining the reformist character of our policy. Therefore, in our previous mandate as the first among government parties, we have proposed a series of structural reforms aimed at eliminating persistent sources of instability in our public finances. This time, too, we consider this effort to be our commitment and our goal when it comes to consolidating public finances. We note that something has to be done, but the script of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is one we unfortunately cannot support. For we imagine a different, more accessible path that will be easier for people and significantly harder for politics, we imagine that we have a difficult task of adopting structural reforms. We presented to the public an alternative scenario of fiscal consolidation, based on certain neutralisations, in particular neutralisation in terms of increasing expenditure or preventing revenue reductions in the form of tax changes already adopted by the National Assembly; on the other hand, optimisation of processes and increasing productivity and rationalisation in the public sector and some of the permanent measures to reduce the structural deficit. In 2012 and 2013, this would mainly be the adoption of pension reform, an increase in income by introducing an additional income class with a 50 % tax on income of more than €60,000 gross, a property tax and some other income-based measures. However, the possible adoption of a higher rate of value added tax, but only in the case of our point of view, should we make an earlier effort to adopt a pension reform. Otherwise, only the increased burden of the pension allowance in the coming year will eat up what we will gain at a higher rate of value added tax. Part of this effort is also an income change. We proposed it already when the Government proposed the Income Act, because our amendments to the law were rejected, we proposed our Income Act a few days later to the National Assembly, the principal of which is the introduction of an additional income class by taxing more than €60,000 gross. What do we want to do about it? We want to achieve that the burdens in our society will also be more equitable in times of crisis, and that even those with the highest revenues will contribute more to the burden of consolidating public finances. I must conclude that the parliamentary groups of the government coalitions on the committee have proposed a supplement that has drawn close to our proposals by introducing an additional income class with a 50% tax on revenue of over €69 000,313. Well, that's the tax base. We view this as a compromise, and we regret that the dynamics or validity of this measure are limited to 2013 and 2014. During the period of validity of this measure, we expect the Government to consider a more permanent regime for higher rates of taxation for those in our society who deserve the most. This will be a good message especially to those who, with the burden of fiscal consolidation, as the Government sees it, in this society and at the moment we are taking the most. In view of the fact that the messages seem to be the key measures we are following, this is certainly one of the messages that the Slovenian public would welcome right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report to the Committee, I give the floor to the member of the Magi. Damjani Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u124	Hello again. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the distinguished Vice-President of the National Assembly! Dear fellow Members and Members.Oh, my God! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 18th emergency meeting. 5. 2012 and the 18th emergency meeting. 5. On the basis of the third paragraph, in conjunction with the first and second paragraphs of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, under the same item of the agenda, he considered three draft laws; namely the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Police, the summary procedure proposed by the Group of Members and Members of the First-signed Peter Wilfan, the Proposal for a Law on the Balance of Public Finance, the urgent procedure put forward by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration to the National Assembly and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income, the first hearing proposed to the Assembly by the Group of Members and Members of the First-signed Janko Vebro. In accordance with Rule 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee first decided to deal with those draft laws under the same agenda item under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the urgent procedure for the adoption of legislation. Following the adoption of that decision, the representatives of the proponents, the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service presented the purpose and content of the solutions to the proposed laws or opinions and their compliance with the Constitution and the legal system. On this basis, the Committee decided to draw up the amended proposal for a law on the basis of the proposal for a law on public finances balance, an urgent procedure submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. On the basis of the discussion, the Committee also decided not to include any of the articles of the proposed Law on Police Amendments and Supplements in this draft law, which would supplement the Law on Police, and to include Article 1 of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income, Article 1 as a new 136.a. In the text of the Proposal for a Law on the Balance of Public Finance, supplemented by Article 1 of the Proposal for a Law on the Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, the Committee then considered the proposal for a law under urgent procedure. The Legislative and Legal Service made a number of comments at the meeting, mainly in terms of the nomotechnics and the internal structure of the bill. It also clarified the principle of comment in its opinion, which draws attention to the importance and scope of the constitutionally guaranteed right after union freedom and the resulting autonomy of collective bargaining. With regard to the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, however, she felt that they were going in the direction of the recommendations made in her written opinion. In the debate on the articles of the bill and on the amendments tabled, the members and members of the Committee expressed different opinions, mainly based on the views of their respective groups. They were of the same opinion that the state of public finances should be gradually rectified and their balance achieved by 2015, thus restoring to the Republic of Slovenia its credibility, credibility and credibility both at home and in the European Union, while differences became clear on the question of how to achieve the structural balance of public finances. In the opinion of the members and members of the committee of opposition parliamentary groups, contrary to the Government, we should seek a solution in order to combine measures on the expenditure and revenue side. They advocated the preservation of the social state, social justice and the reduction of social differences as a basis for solidarity under the conditions of fiscal consolidation. The view was expressed that long-term solutions to the economic and financial crisis should be drawn up based on investment, investment in science and development and envisaged pension reforms, health and education reforms while preserving the social state. At the same time, it was pointed out that they were bringing proposed solutions to the amendment of individual laws in fact already under way to reform those areas. The debate focused on how financial consolidation could be achieved, without prejudice to specific areas. Specific and comprehensive responses were made by representatives of the Ministry of Finance and other relevant ministries to the questions raised in the debate on individual proposed legislative amendments or their provisions under the draft law. The Government is aware that the proposed measures in the Public Finance Balance Act can be put into question in terms of constitutionality, in particular in terms of prejudice to citizens' rights already acquired. In doing so, they stressed that the country is in a difficult financial and economic situation, and therefore fiscal balance is essential because without it there would be very severe consequences for the country. In the view of the Government, however, fiscal balance cannot be achieved without prejudice to certain rights already acquired, and the Constitutional Court will also have to judge in the case of requests for a constitutional review of the law when it is adopted. The Committee adopted coalition amendments prepared on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the coordination with the trade union partners, as well as some other amendments of the opposition parliamentary groups. The Committee voted on all articles of the proposal and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation is prepared and the amendments adopted are included. On the basis of the decisions taken, the committee concluded the legislative procedure for the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Police Act and the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Income.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u125	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that this is a truly extensive marriage, we will somehow tolerate this in relation to the excess of time, or for the next time please a little bit shorter. Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette and, on its behalf, by Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u126	Dear Vice President, Minister's Chamber, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law that is, in all respects, exceptional in all respects: an exceptional nomotechnic, exceptional after the effort made by the Government in preparing it, exceptional after efforts to coordinate with the social partners, exceptional in the intensity of treatment on the home and other committees and exceptional in terms of its weight and content. The proposed law is simply a reflection of the exceptional situations in which our country and its public finances are located. Let us not be blinded by the enforcement of the law, which will affect the citizen of our country, directly or indirectly. It is difficult and at first sight radical measures. It's about saving. Then why should such a marriage be supported in the first place? Because the measures are necessary and without them the balance of public finances cannot be achieved; because the measures are the result of social dialogue and consensus; because the burden of the measures is fairly distributed, the benefits of those with the lowest income are protected and those with higher incomes are more burdened; because the measures create conditions for a solid and stable social state; because the measures preserve the sovereignty and independence of our country; because the measures eliminate the causes of the credit crunch; because the measures are a clear signal to the international public that Slovenia is able to unify and consolidate; because these measures are temporary and are bound to the duration of the recession; because they deal with the conditions for the start-up of the economy, foreign investment and investment of the state in infrastructure projects; because they are a necessary basis for further actions that the Government will also be proposed below. In the Civil Gazette, we are convinced that citizens and citizens understand the situation in which our country has found itself to understand that the proposed measures are urgently needed, fair, efficient and limited to an important objective, to a way out of the crisis. The Civil Code will support the Proposal for a Law on Public Finance Balance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u127	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u128	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In view of the fact that the law in question is an intervention in as many as five-fifty laws, I will present only the general position of the Group of Members and we will then discuss the details in the Slovenian People's Party in the course of the debate itself. In short, after the debate so far, in particular the debate on the budget balance, we note that this is a certain convergence of our views. While the opposition is sharp, it is critical, even to the decisions taken in past mandates, to play its role as supervisor, which is, of course, right. However, from the point of view of the argument about the content of the rebalance and the law on the balance of public finances, we are even more convinced after the debate in the Slovenian People's Party that what we are doing is the right way. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have listened in detail to the criticisms of the opposition and the work of the professional public, in particular for the reason that we might still have an idea, an alternative solution that would not have affected the already weak economy and would have saved us some euro that we should not have taken in the area of social protection, family policy and so on. However, I must say that there are no concrete or cost-effective solutions and there have been no solutions so far. The economic crisis that has taken over the development of the world, we know it is specific. It does not come from classical economic cycles, but from the background of debt nature. That is why, unfortunately, it will not only be resolved by additional financial injections into the economy, if we do so again. For every measure resulting from financial incentives to the economy, you need fresh resources. The funds are available, foreign banks gladly lend — but under what conditions? At 6% interest rate! Today, we pay 700 million euros for interest, so if we still owe a few billion more – how much will we pay? Out of €8 billion of budget revenue, 1 billion interest! Really, who here believes this is sustainable? An even more risky move is the proposed increase in taxes. The revenue side of the budget cannot be charged just like that. We therefore insist that the expenditure side must be settled first, because both people and companies cannot take on additional tax burdens. However, when the government decided to review government spending as soon as it took office and tried to rationalise individual items, it encountered a barrier. A large majority of the expenditure of the state budget is legally conditional. If we want to change them, we must cut both into the legislation in force and into the current rights of citizens. At marathon sessions, members of the Finance Committee agreed on at least one point: that 800 million euros cannot be saved without prejudice to certain rights. It is true, however, that in the past, there has been virtually no concrete attempts to interfere with the legislation relating to the obligations of the State towards citizens and citizens. The intervention measures so far have been followed solely by limiting the coordination of salaries and pensions. However, matters needed to be checked more systematically, in the short term, to find reserves in all areas and to ensure that the burden was distributed as fairly as possible, while at the same time minimally affecting those with the lowest income. It is true, Your Honor, that this is not a law to promote the economy, it is a law which is a condition for us to gain even a space of manoeuvre so that we can act in the field of the economy. Without this law, the political hands are tied, we have no basis for saving anything at all. We will, of course, support this law in the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u129	Thank you. Mrs Marija Plevčak on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u130	Say good-bye to everyone again! Slovenia is in a very difficult situation, so it is imperative to take appropriate and decisive action immediately. We have thus concluded in this composition of the coalition and have tackled the crisis of public finances, first of all by adapting the expenditure side of public finances. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the introduction of a package of austerity measures is necessary to stabilise public finances in terms of reducing the relationship between clearly over-expenditure and under-income in the budget. In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that the proposed measures must be reinforced by the increase in budgetary flows, including through the upheaval of the grey economy, the recovery of all, I stress, of all tax debt, the return of Taiwanese assets from foreign and tax havens accounts, of course, if there is any will in the Government for such a move, and, of course, the creation of an environment for successful economic growth. We expect our coalition partners to do this work soon, so that both types of measures go towards the goal of improving our economy and thus our standard and meet the European requirement by reducing the deficit of public finances below 3% of GDP. Of course, first we work for ourselves, then only for Europe, I have to say this further. Several measures have already been introduced in this law, which will bring a few inflows to the budget, as has already been pointed out, and we expect more from the DeSUS Group. The initial set of measures in the Proposal for a Law on Public Finance Balance may not have been fair and ideal, but in general it makes sense because it covers most of the biggest consumers of public finances. In the DeSUS Group, we were further aware from the first drafts of the proposal that some of the proposed measures were unnecessary and unbalanced among ourselves, so within the coalition we sought to correct them. The law is still open, and today we are likely to make further improvements to individual content so that the law as a whole is acceptable to all negotiating parties. Coalition partners have listened to our efforts to maintain the annual allowance for pensioners. In view of the fact that the poverty threshold is somewhere in 550 euros, we in DeSUS have pledged that pensioners with under-average pensions will receive an allowance for recreation. The pensioners are the social group which is on average the most vulnerable at the moment, especially those with under-average pensions, whose height can be compared to the minimum wage. Such a solution, according to our assessment, is also sufficient to maintain the satisfactory socio-economic situation of pensioners in the fact that we must all contribute to the stabilisation of public finances, despite interfering with the annual allowance. In the DeSUS Group, we must also say that we have advocated some other trade union proposals, including the protection of older workers at the time of receiving unemployment benefits, the preservation of the level of hospital benefits, the preservation of the holiday of work and the easing of measures in the area of family policy, and that we have been able to unanimously support the coalition as a whole of these proposals. Given that the law is partly already or probably, and hopefully will be improved, we see no more reason not to be acceptable to the public, because we believe that every citizen and citizen are at least quietly aware of the need for saving. The DeSUS Group predicts the law's support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u131	Thank you. Mag. Matthew Tonin on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u132	Dear fellows and fellows, once again welcome! I will repeat the thought that I have repeatedly stressed in these days: "If there was a easier way, we would certainly choose it!" Why am I saying this? Because I was very surprised by the statement made by one of the opposition Members at one of the meetings because he said that the Government was taking revenge on the people by this law. But I think it's some sort of Huja statement that no one should be able to afford right now. I will not explain why there is no other way, because we have said a lot about this in the debate on the balance, but the fact is that many of you in the opposition have been dissatisfied with the process itself, but this process has been one way or another. Although he was very busy, I cannot imagine that 45 laws could be passed in such a short time, for time is of the utmost importance at this time. We are all aware that no one was satisfied with this law, neither in the opposition nor in the coalition. and that there has been tremendous pressure on all the Members and on all Members. We've been getting a lot of letters, personal stories and stuff. Even the New Slovenia world has asked us Members to do something to ease the pressure on family policy. That is why I must here, in this place also thank all our coalition partners, that we together have found room for manoeuvre, that we have mitigated the pressures in the family area. That is why we can all together today be satisfied that 100% of the maternity allowance remains, that 90% will be paid for parenthood, for those who have the lowest minimum wage, even 100%. We are also pleased that parents will pay only 30% for another child in kindergarten. In all fairness, however, it seems to us that all these measures will not be affected in this way or that special circumstances will apply to those families with the lowest income or whose income does not exceed €650 per family member. As far as the public sector is concerned, 8 % of the reduction in wages has been agreed. Again, I can say that this is a slightly milder form than we have been trained elsewhere in Europe. Let me give you a few examples. In Latvia, wages were reduced by 30%, in Estonia 10%, in Greece 20%, in Ireland 8%, in the Czech Republic 10%. That's a couple of cases. It seems important to us in all things that this Public Finance Balance Act finally eliminates all wage imbalances, which means that wages will actually fall by less than 8%. It is also good that some compromise has been reached on the reimbursement of labour costs for public servants. As far as pensioners are concerned, the fact is that pensions — those arising from past earnings — will not be reduced and that those pensioners who receive the lowest pensions will receive a full allowance for recreation. However, I think it is crucial that in some way an agreement has been reached with the unions. What would happen if there wasn't a deal? Only the referendum initiative would move the implementation of this law to fall. This would mean a great deal of public financial damage to Slovenia. It was therefore important that, in these last final present, the Government has slightly eased, withdrawn certain things from this law and that an agreement with the unions was signed today. In New Slovenia, we will support the law on the balance of public finances, as well as all those amendments that are in line with the unions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u133	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, Dr Laszlo Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Once again, everyone, say good-bye! In recent weeks, we have also examined the proposed text of the law thoroughly in terms of indigenous national communities and identified where such effects could have occurred, which would be unacceptable in terms of the existence and development of the national community and contrary to the definition of the Government, which it expressed at the beginning of its mandate. With regard to the proposal for a law, it can be found that there are no concrete interventions in the areas or activities of indigenous national communities. The specific effects that can potentially be achieved in the context of the general impact on the entire population in certain areas, primarily from a social point of view, will undoubtedly be the case. However, we hope that this will not exacerbate the level of vulnerability of the national communities in terms of maintaining identity and mother tongue. From the point of view of national policy or issue, education or education is undoubtedly one of the primary areas of education and education in the national mixed area. This activity, including criteria and specifications, shall be carried out on the basis of a specific law. It is important to point out that the proposed measures do not affect the content and provisions of this Act, which is correct, because this extremely sensitive area of breach of standards and standards would not be tolerated in any way. In particular, it was stressed that the possible unforeseeable consequences which we hope will not be solved by the Government in cooperation and in agreement with the national communities in the area of education in national mixed areas. The proposed measures shall also be without prejudice to the functioning of the organisations and institutions of the national communities. Partly because of the situation in which we are all together, but mainly because of the initiative and not because of the provisions of the proposed law, it is proposed to upgrade the funding system of the national communities, which will be more reliant on transparency, programme orientation, responsibility and, in this regard, on raising the autonomy of the organisations of the national communities. Due to the specificity of the work and the organisation of the functioning of the institutions and organisations of the national communities, a good month ago, government decisions regarding the conclusion of copyright and rental contracts could lead to insurmountable problems, a wide-ranging block of activity on the whole of the vertical, but this did not happen. It has been interpreted by the Government to be aware of the problems mentioned above, so they do not want to have any negative influence on the functioning of the organizations of the national communities, which go into the preservation and development of national identity and language. It was ensured that in the event of any partial problems in this regard, the Government would seek an appropriate systemic solution in the spirit of the said. We expect that even after the adoption of the provisions of the Public Finance Balance Act relating to this content, the Government's position will remain the same. On the basis of the above, we will support the proposed legal text, together with the amendments we have just received on the bench, which are the fruit of coordination with the unions. However, in this regard, I would like to make it clear that we are not doing this in good will either, but in the light of the fact that unfortunately, without an intensive start in the recovery of public finances, it is simply not possible to carry out this task. We are also aware that the proposed law brings many unpredictable situations and leaves very open and inconsistent questions about science, education, culture, universities and others, which will need to be addressed systematically at least in the shortest possible time. Nevertheless, it is our global conclusion that unfortunately, with certain activities, which at least temporarily resolves this law, we are already seriously late. So let me conclude with the thought of a prominent Hungarian statesman from the 19th century, Kossuth, who said: "If we have already made mistakes, we cannot correct the situation by continuing the bad steps and by delaying, but by correcting the wrong actions so far, as quickly as possible." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u135	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Ambassadorial Group of Positive Slovenia, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u136	Your Honor! I protest because we are amending 44 sectoral laws with one law and are significantly interfering with wages, regressions, social transfers, pensions, lowering standards in universities, schools and kindergartens. I protest against the law, which is unique in Slovenia and also in Europe. Something like this has never happened before and should never have happened. Most of the unions and the government have reached an agreement today that there will be no referendum on this law. In Positive Slovenia, we welcome such an agreement because we believe that the referendum blockade, which Slovenia was particularly exposed to the SDS in the previous term, is poor. By the way, there is also one of the biggest differences between us in Positive Slovenia, which is that we are not prepared to block countries at the expense of our own political goals, which you have done in the past term with perseverance and success. Despite the agreement reached today, we believe that the measures you are taking with this law are weak, inhuman and will not be supported as such. Honourable President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament and Members of the Coalition! I protest that in 48 hours you have been able to bury both the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I protest because the gap between the legislative and executive branches of power in our country, with your way of working, remains just a dead letter on paper. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on as many as 48 pages undoubtedly reinforces our warnings that the law as a whole is contrary to Article 2 of the Constitution, which speaks of the rule of law, because it is vague, opaque, inconclusive and inconsistent. Moreover, it creates legal uncertainty and thus a lack of confidence in the rule of law. The law is also contrary to the prohibition on the return of legal acts, Article 155 of the Constitution, since laws and other regulations and general acts cannot have an effect on the return. I protest because the government coalition for all warnings remains blind and deaf. In Positive Slovenia, we will not compromise on the constitutionally protected rights of citizens and citizens, nor will we negotiate about them. The Coalition is consistently following the instructions and expects to receive the praise of the representatives of the European Union. Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are not important to this government and coalition. Clearly, the violation of their rights is not an obstacle. There is also no obstacle to the fact that the majority of Members in dealing with an extensive and legally extremely difficult law at the night meetings of the Parliamentary Finance Committee due to chaos in the wake of a bunch of imprudent amendments that they could not even explain, did not even know what they were actually deciding. More than 320 supplements have been added to the marriage of 261 articles and are further received. The amendments were therefore more than articles, of which more than 200 amendments were tabled by the coalition itself. In view of all the amendments to the law tabled, we rightly ask ourselves whether the Government even knows what the law is, what its content is, and in particular what its consequences will be, and what impact this law has on the budget's rebalancing. In Positive Slovenia, we would like to point out that the law introduces solutions that are long-term in nature and are not only temporary in nature, as the Government is trying to blind us. It is not just about balancing public finances and measures related to the proposal for a state budget rebalancing this year, but it is about abolishing existing social standards and introducing radical long-term measures. Let me draw your attention to the absurd situation that the Government has brought us into inadvertently. On the one hand, the Government has today concluded, with a large part of the unions, an agreement on austerity measures which will allow the Government to adopt a law to balance public finances without a threatening referendum and, on the other hand, it is not yet clear whether the Government will, at the time of today's decision on the law or the amendments to that law, indeed ensure that it does not interfere with the area of pension insurance and the already acquired rights under the social intergenerational dialogue. The same applies to healthcare and health insurance interventions. We therefore protest that the Positive Slovenia has only 5 minutes to define this law, which affects 44 laws. It would take months and months of discussion both at political and professional level to deal with and adopt all these 44 laws, and this government and coalition will overtake all this expertise overnight: without any concern you will reject the social contract under which we have lived so far, and introduce a new one based on radical measures. Both the current and the former Prime Minister likes to refer to the historicity of the moment we are witnessing. If we were cynical, we would say that: so today is a truly historic moment because we are witnessing the funeral of democracy. We will bury legal certainty, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, let me just say this: in Positive Slovenia we do not support the abolition of public education, public health, the evaluation of the rule of law and the abolition of acquired rights, nor do I support the incompetence and ignorance of this coalition, nor do we support the reduction of access to higher education, nor do we support a government that does not understand that it is saving where it is not supposed to work for the good of Slovenia. We will therefore vote against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u137	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u138	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues, colleagues! Slovenia's indebtedness goes far beyond reality and there is an urgent need for measures on the basis of which public finances will be balanced, especially in terms of expenditure work, and also in terms of revenue. It should be stressed that, without reducing the deficit, long-term sustainable growth is not possible and public spending must therefore be aligned with reality. Slovenia ended 2011 with a record deficit of EUR 2.3 billion and 6.4% of gross domestic product. Slovenia's indebtedness has increased to EUR 17 billion and Slovenia alone pays EUR 700 million per year for interest. So far, the burden of the financial and economic crisis has only borne one segment, and it has been an economy. The real sector has lost 60,000 jobs in the last three years and the public sector has increased by more than 9,000. Both the direct and direct state-owned countries have decreased their credit ratings in the last period, which means that the country has been reduced in terms of the possibility of obtaining favourable funding. Today we are Members and Members before an important decision. It should be stressed that neither the Government nor the SDS Group accept such a package gladly, but in the SDS Group we are aware of the seriousness of the situation in which Slovenia and the Slovenian economy are today. We are pleased, however, that reason has prevailed and that an agreement has been reached between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the social partners. In the SDS Group, we are convinced that the proposed law to balance public finances is at the moment the best possible solution. The measures will not affect those with the lowest income, most of the major social transfers remain and, on the other hand, the introduction of new taxes such as the property crisis tax, the increase in capital gains taxes, the introduction of a new income scale, the introduction of a tax on vessels and motor vehicles ensures an increase in revenue in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, mainly at the expense of those with higher income. It should be noted that there are a number of temporary measures to be taken when the economy recovers and consequently achieves economic growth. In the SDS Group, we are convinced that Slovenia is a social state, that Slovenia will remain a social state, but we cannot afford Slovenia to become a social institution. Today, Slovenia and the National Assembly have a good opportunity to show abroad that we are aware of the seriousness of the situation and to give a clear signal through the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act that we are prepared to balance public spending with reality. The SDS Group would stress once again that the proposed law is the best possible solution for Slovenia at a given time, so the SDS Group will support the proposed law on public finances balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u140	Your Honor, a very nice greeting. At the presentation of the views of the Social Democrats Group on the Proposal for a Law on Public Finance Balance, I would like to begin by stressing that the bill has a number of serious legal shortcomings, including constitutional shortcomings. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which highlighted the problem of non-compliance with Article 2 of the Constitution with regard to the clarity, transparency, reasonableness and clarity of the rule of law, which are fundamental elements of the constitutional principle of the rule of law. Social Democrats are not opposed to saving, but we are opposed to the scale and form of saving as planned by the Government in this law. The savings package relies on lowering wages, social transfers and the sharpest cuts right into sectors that should play a key role in restoring and improving the start-up of our economy, that is to say, education and science. In the Group of Social Democrats, we fear that the social state's austerity spiral will continue to grow and a period of greater denial and decommissioning and privatisation of public services is just beginning. As the world's most visible economists warn, there is no case in the world when a sick country recovers from salary cuts, pensions and social transfers. Such policies exacerbate the crisis, affect social disparities and redistribute assets for the benefit of the rich. This is also reflected in the examples of those countries that have most faithfully followed the strict austerity policy dictatorship in Greece, Spain and Portugal. Although the Government has accepted a compromise on austerity measures of 30 to 40 million in the social field and 80 million in the paid area, the problems of savings of 818 million in 2012 remain as other pensions and investments of the state or state consumption will be relatively reduced. This will reduce economic growth and increase unemployment. As we have repeatedly pointed out in the Group of Social Democrats, the proposal for a bill to balance public finances is imbalanced both in terms of interference with specific areas and in terms of the consequences of the implementation of the law for individual target groups. The highest burden of the savings package The government imposes on the medium layer, which will be pushed against the lower layer by austerity measures. Many measures that are supposed to be temporary in nature are conditioned by the amendments adopted by a growth in gross domestic product of 2.5%, transforming temporary measures into medium- or even long-term ones. It cannot be seen from the Umar forecast that there would be economic growth of more than 2.5% of gross domestic product in this mandate. In order to ease this imbalance at least a little bit, we have created a number of amendments in the Group of Social Democrats to prevent the burden of saving to the greatest and disproportionate extent young families with children, pensioners, the unemployed, children in kindergartens, students and pupils in primary schools and employees. In addition to the area of social security, the imbalance in the financial consequences of the law is reflected in science and education. As far as education is concerned, the coalition amendments do not give us the hope that we can look forward to maintaining the standards of public education that have been achieved. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is sending to Brussels documents providing for at least as rigorous measures as proposed in the original text of the bill. We are pleased that the Government has found a common denominator with trade unions on the envisaged austerity measures and has withdrawn some proposals that have overstepped human rights. In particular, the measures introduced in the Proposal for a Law on Public Finance Balance were subsequently introduced, with amendments, unilaterally, without public debate and social dialogue. Amendments to the Proposal for a Law on the Balance of Public Finance, which is being drawn up in the negotiation process with the social partners, take place in a focused dialogue on the one hand and by voting on those who are trying to change and complement the existing government savings package with significantly less painful measures and also to influence the consolidation of public finances. In contrast to the Government, Members of the Social Democrats believe that the priorities for reducing the public financial deficit should be based on a balance between the means for development, social security and savings. Members of the SD Group will not be supported by the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u141	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on articles and amendments to individual articles. Since we already have an amendment to Article 1, I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendments to Article 1. I'm opening a debate. I'm asking you to sign up. Thanks for the applications. Twelve panellists have been reported. The first one is Maya Dimitrovski.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u143	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It'll be your turn soon, but the first one is Tina Comel.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone! I protest that the accessibility of higher education has been reduced for all social groups and thus quality, European comparable studies. With the amendments to the Public Finance Balance Act, you have put pressure on the most vulnerable groups of citizens, including socially disadvantaged students who will not be able to afford a study. Where can you bring us by reducing our finances for university studies and raising student labour taxes? Your target is young, students and, above all, students from socially disadvantaged families who live through their student work. You tax student work with 25%. This means that students and all young people working will no longer be competitive. The number of jobs for young people will automatically be reduced through the student service, with which young people were able to resolve their social situation so that they could study. Increasing taxation automatically means less work for young people, less money than student work concessions. This means that despite the higher rate of taxation, there will be less money for scholarships. With higher taxation, you also change the distribution ratio of revenue collected from concessions, and the student organisations are reduced by half, which means that you want to weaken and disrupt student organisations, you prefer to disable them in operation. Do you know what salaries are paid by student directors who are not affected by the decline in public spending?Oh, my God! I know. The media has been keeping a good eye on this. The salary of the director of ŠOU Ljubljana is EUR 5,000 800 gross. Do you think it's a salary that's not earned on the market, but it's burned down by students with student work, normal?Oh, my God! Well, and to the top of the iceberg, from which you can see who you wrote this change on your skin. The percentage of earnings from student work concessions remains unchanged. I'm asking you why the percentage of student services doesn't go down. My opinion is that capital has demonstrated its power in this case, since we have already witnessed changes in your mandate to student services. I don't know if you're aware of what's going on in young people's heads when they're just watching the situation in our country. Please put yourself in the role of a student, student or one younger person for one moment. What future do they see in Slovenia? Not at all. What kind of school should they choose to get a job? Not at all, because there is no such school that would provide them with a future through your measures of lowering wages, forgiving and reducing human rights. They have no idea what will happen to them or how they can survive, buy an apartment, or create a family. I fear that Slovenia will have to be saved not only from the crisis and the collapse, but also from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Darko Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u146	Thank you again and again for your greeting to all present! I really have to protest against this marriage. Slovenia is the only country where you can travel without going on a trip. You go to sleep at night, you get a mega marriage, 45 other laws change and you wake up in another country. The social order has been completely altered. That's got a lot more consequences. In fact, not only is this a legal service – 48 pages say that this is a legal crime – but I have to say that there are things in there that do not belong there. This means they're not in there by accident, but they're probably planted to be accepted in the package. I have already explained to my Members about health care, and it is nice that you hear others. You need to be careful. And you don't want any things to your constituents, your relatives, your friends. I'm just going to touch a few things in the health field, or I can go with anyone later for coffee and explain it to him that I won't be here that long. The share of compulsory health insurance shall be moved to the supplementary. This means nothing but a kind of increased contribution rate for those who have money. So instead of gross, it's taken off the net. This reduces solidarity, leaves some reciprocity, increases asymmetry. This means that those with money can afford a little more, which is no problem when it comes to a standard, and the problem is when it comes to basic health rights. That's what's gonna happen now. You need to know that when you press the "for" button tomorrow; here you could explain a lot more. Treatment groups of medicines. I don't know if you know what this is about. Now we have these generics, and one medicine is replaced with another, if it's the same group. This is not such an expert problem, and these therapeutic groups of medicines are a completely different story. If you have headache medicines from different groups, you know that one medicine helps against the headache and one does not, and everyone knows which one it will take. And now there's gonna be some low-priced therapy group, and there's all that's left to pay if you want to get that medicine that helps you. Now, headache is not the problem, but some medicines for the heart, kidneys, pressure, and those who take more medication do have major complications, both in the choice of the medicine and in the combination. Like Denmark, who introduced it, took five years to bring it in. We need to be very careful because there can be fatal consequences. Pharmacies have been prepared with special repacking machines to avoid these errors. Again the elderly are the most affected, you know how some come to the doctor: "I take one red, one white and one yellow tablet." They won't know. There will be a switch, and this is really not the case in this Public Finance Balance Act. It's just in there for a reason. Contracts on the ground. See, the lack of doctors was solved in such a way that one was willing to work more and the system somehow balanced itself. Now these land contracts are practically forbidden, but in what way! Yesterday I printed a bill to balance public finances and read Article 53; this morning I received a stack of papers on the table here — this article has been amended! I just got a new stack of papers, they're still warm — this article has changed again! I got written three times in 24 hours. I haven't even read it yet, so I can't even comment. But you can tell your constituents that the difficult choice of a doctor, the more difficult access to a doctor and somewhere some programs will be discontinued if what is written applies. Hospitals to tell you – the Minister has now left – are beautifully written here these reductions in the compensation for the hospital stock, but the problem is that there will be no result, there will be no effect that was predicted in those 800 million. Indeed, in each crisis, the number of hospitalised stocks is increasing and this measure prevents only the increase of the hospital stock, will not decrease as much as this figure foresees and will not have a financial impact. In fact, abstention will not increase, but presentation will increase, which means that sick people will go to work. Let me show you today's newspaper, here's an interview or quote by Mr. Peterlet. He was on the European growth health project. So, Europe is aware that people must not go to work sickly, and it is increasing the means to reduce absences from work in the prevention, and again I quote Mr Peterlet: "There will be no competitive economy if we have sick workers." I mean, there's a lot to say about this, but Mr. Peterle would say, "Forgive them, they don't know what they're doing." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u147	Thank you. Mag. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Well-known representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I protested the health balance and also protested against the law on financial balance. The material in the Financial Balance Act is on more than 220 pages and, as you have heard before, it changes 44 laws. Its entry into force is intended to mean the implementation of the rebalancing and the law is to enter into force on 1 July 2012. In health, we amend two laws: the Health Insurance Act and the Medical Act. These are two very important laws that have been in the Department of Health for more than five years, and we have been trying to get them out, but we have failed. It is now being amended by the Law on Public Finance Coordination and Balance. I would just point out that in the Health and Health Insurance Act we amend 14 articles, primarily medical devices, then in the Medical Activities Act, which was adopted in 1992, we amend four articles, in the Kindergarten Act 6 articles, in the Higher Education Act 4 articles, on Disabled 4 and on the targeting of children with special needs 1. So in six laws, we change 33 articles. Nowhere does it say that we are not in charge of the health of our population in the country. In crises, all the countries in health care have devoted more money. We have 47.6% of GDP, so we have decided not to be in charge of health. In the savings that you have listed by changing healthcare articles, primarily in the measures to be taken by the Institute of Health Insurance in 2012 around €63 million, and the impact on the Institute of Health Insurance for the reduction of expenditure. I'm really worried about this device law. So far, there has been a contract between the Health Insurance Office and the contractors for 3 years, and the new law has been in force for 12 months. Then what happens if the contract is not signed in those 12 months or 14 days after that? Then it happens that arbitration is necessary. The Health Insurance Act sets the price of the aids as before and the difference is likely to have to be paid by the patient. So, interfering with the two most important health laws is unacceptable. Please reconsider, because these articles really need to be upgraded. These are laws that have been discussed for a long time and consultations across Europe with all colleagues show that they have not in any way interfered with two such important laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratusek. But I'd like to ask for some attention on the left and right side of the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I've already told you this before today, and I'm going to do it again so that something might happen. I am protesting against this way of working in the National Assembly as we have received it this week. Once again, not against the amount of work, we are not afraid of it, but against the way we work. I am sure that today the vast majority of Members do not know exactly what the content of the Public Finance Balance Act is. We started with a law that went into action, and I think that in 46 laws, on the board we talked about a law that went into 44 laws, and now we have 39 more of those laws. Perhaps it would be good to wait another week, and the measures involved in this would be at least good for the force, because from day to day the laws fly out because you clearly realize that some of the solutions have been so radical that they are no longer acceptable. As I have mentioned many times before, you are most drasticly interfering with family policies and children, from the very beginning to higher education. I must admit that some minor changes – I will now say that I am imagining that, on the basis of our proposals and comments – have certainly been taken into account. I'm going to mention two, these are maternity benefits and free kindergartens, where you've obviously found that you've made a big mistake. After this amendment, maternity benefits should, if voted, remain on a 2-fold average salary and should not be reduced to 1.5 times. Our amendment includes something else that we have already fought for on the Committee on Finance, and unfortunately we have failed, that is to say that the implementation of this part of the law should be suspended for one year. The only reason is that women will be able to decide not to get to them at the time, I'll tell you when they're in the middle of the pregnancy. I will not repeat that many young mothers have turned to us, but if you want to hear it or not, they would not have decided for the child if they knew about it. It grieves me very much, and I imagine the plight of these mothers, so I ask you to support our amendment in their own, our own, name - not now, but the content is also in this article - which says that the implementation of this work will be suspended for one year. However, I ask you kindly, my fellow Members and colleagues, especially on my left side, not to tell me that you would change my measures and raise taxes instead of measures, because that is not true and I do not know where you have heard that. We'd combine each other. Just as the vast majority of developed European countries have done. I really didn't go to the Baltic States to check, because I think Slovenia deserves more than that. Unfortunately, the vast majority of European countries have, fortunately, raised VAT, including the one that is your model, Germany, raised VAT by three percentage points, and today you find that it is successful, well-developed and so on. And our desire is not to raise value added tax. You're explaining it like we want it. But we do not want to see this as a punishment for our citizens. Given that you have now found for yourself that VAT is an option that exists, because you have included VAT raising provisions in the Public Finance Balance Act, and given that I think the Minister in the introduction to the Rebalancing Presentation said that savings on the spending side of EUR 500 million and no more than EUR 800 million, I will say, as at the beginning, maybe another week, and you will be exactly where we have been two months ago, that the path is the right one. In the end, I'll join my colleague Jazbec. Think again that in the end it will not be necessary to say: Forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u151	Thank you very much. At first, you wanted procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u152	Madam Vice-President, I am procedurally asking you a question in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 144, which allows for amendments to be made orally before the end of the hearing, but they must be put to the vote and submitted in writing. Given that we have received amendments from coalition groups to Article 181 of the Law, the law has 261 articles and because the proposed amendments adopted by the committees are open in the amended bill and can be tabled with amendments, the coalition has made a commitment or a promise to the unions that some amendments will still be adopted, I ask: Are these amendments from the coalition groups the final version of the amendments or are amendments to the 181st article of the amended Law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u153	Thank you very much for your procedural question. Mr Jerovšek, your question or proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u154	Madam President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia, including their leader, all sentences begin with the word protest. In the performance of the leader of the Group, I think, Madam President, that the rubicon, which represents a threshold of dignity, constructiveness and has been committed and has been reached under the lower edge of statehood, has been breached. It was said that this law had buried the constitution and the law. This is an accusation of the introduction of dictatorship in this country, and at the same time all Members are performing "protesting". I politely invite them to go to the democracy classroom, if they really want to protest, to go to the market among students and start learning to count democracy. Not here with destructiveness. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u155	Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u156	with assault on the Constitution [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u157	Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u158	and the law in the form of Balkan obstetrics, [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u159	Mr. Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u160	the democratic order [[...]] [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u161	Mr Jerovšek, I am sorry, but somehow it is also a parliamentary practice, as I have been taught, and I would also like to conduct the meetings as we have agreed that everyone, and this also applies to the continuation of the procedural proposal, will first submit and then explain. So for the next time you have a procedural proposal, please follow this order. Another thing I owe or don't know if I owe her, but I want to explain it, mag. I don't know how many amendments we're gonna get on the bench. I don't even need to know right now. As you know, amendments to the Rules of Procedure may be tabled until the discussion of the Article is concluded. We are currently only in Article 1 and are continuing the debate. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u162	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I quoted the third paragraph and also said that I am aware of it, but because we have to work in good faith and some assurances have been given, and the amendments are until 181 and because this refers to the whole law, those who have prepared amendments certainly know where the amendments should come from, I am interested, because this is also what we are doing and also what we are discussing. Because of this, if there is a commitment in good faith that things will be excluded from the proposed law - but I cannot, by 181, measure the provisions which interfere with the standards and standards that have been promised to be eliminated and subject to collective bargaining - but only until 181 can I verify that there will be another amendment under 181, given that the experience shows that the opposition amendments have been voted. That was the question that made me take the floor twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I believe the first answer was satisfactory. I can't know that, but I also live in good faith that promises are kept. We continue the debate and Mr Minister has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u164	I just wanted to make one thing clear that we're going to be able to speak properly about these numbers. The reduction in public finances is based on two sets of measures. As I have said many times, it is a reduction in the spending that measures or amendments to the laws covered by the Public Finance Balance Act allow, and it is also a reduction in some other expenditure for which there is no need for legislative change. This is said, if we are saying that there is now a reduction of spending under the 500 million law, these are not all cuts. The overall reduction in expenditure will continue to be 800 million or so in the budget to achieve the target of a 3% deficit in gross domestic product this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Barbara Žgajner Tavš, I'd like to prepare myself, please, Mrs Tamara Vont.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u166	Thank you so much for your words, Madam President! If you'll excuse me, my colleague Jerovšek is not here, and I am expressing my own protest. A protest against the desire of government Members to discipline us in these days. We are constantly reminded of how unconstructive we are, even though we have already submitted several amendments to our mother's working body, previously, to interested working bodies and even today. If I recall you, only on Monday's working body, it was that famous session until half past four in the morning, where, in fact, in a similar way to today's bench we received from the hot amendment. And when we asked the representatives of the government coalition to just explain to us, given that they were their amendments, these amendments were about 300, 400 to 290 articles, as far as they were concerned, not one member of the government coalition came forward to explain what the amendment they were proposing meant. I believe that Einstein is not in this House, which at this point can read so much paper and gather what the Government wants with the proposed amendments. As it is said, I am protesting such a way of working on such important laws, which do not merely mean austerity measures; I am sure that these laws mean structural changes. You know, all wars are based on deception: when you are strong enough to attack, act or impress the powerless; when you use your strength, look calm; when you are close, act or make your opponent know that you are far away, and when you are far away, convince him that you are close. Known? Draw the enemy with bait, play the mess, then destroy him. This is what you, distinguished government representatives and representatives will do to our citizens and citizens. You have succeeded in people in the past days, and also today, instilling hysteria about the need to save at every step at all costs. The government's strategy for adopting intervention solutions, if I say so myself, is the only right one. The opposition, however, is the one that is the national enemy at this point in time number 1, because it has doubts because it is also making amendments on the basis of comments received by the patient society by the other interested public. Dear Government, this, in my firm belief, has also been able to do so with the unions. In this way, as has already been said, you have tried and today, with your warnings and, above all, your accusations, you are attempting to deceive the opposition as well. And I'm sorry, at this point, that, I'm going to tell you, the second opposition SD party to introduce a fiscal rule into the constitution has surrendered. Personally, I believe that the Golden Fiscal Rule is not the protection of taxpayers, that it is merely a government alibi, that you will begin to destroy the postulates of the social state, the welfare state, with reform proposals. And be aware that by adopting the constitutional amendment you will also intervene in the right to a referendum. You know, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Constitution also provides that Slovenia is a social state. With only the proposed two laws, the 2012 budget rebalancing and the Public Finance Balance Act, you have shown little concern if within 14 days you reach out to the foundations of the existing public regulation system in our country and even more. And even more; without evidence, without analysis, without simulating the consequences you are interfering with the area of family policy – the basic proposal is such, absolutely – you are interfering with the area of social protection, with health care, and initially you have given the public a very clear signal that the area of knowledge for you is also a category to be subordinated to market law. Differentiation, if you want, at every step, for a short time. Slovenia today has a system of solidarity in the field of insurance. The purpose of such insurance is to balance social resources. The welfare state is one of the three spheres of taking social risks. Besides the country, it's a market, and it's a family. Whoever takes the risk and in what way depends on the welfare system. Your actions, respected colleagues and colleagues, follow my assessment in the direction, and this also stems from this government's coalition contract that social, health insurance, pension insurance will be regulated on the basis of the status segmentation. You get as much as you pay. My colleague has made it very clear to me what is going on with these government changes and what are the trends in compulsory health insurance. On Monday, the Minister also made a public assessment at the meeting of the parent working body that it represents a reduction of 5 % of the insurance premium to the compulsory health insurance account, an increase in the premium to the supplementary health insurance account by 8 to 10 %, according to insurance assessments, and that it also opens the door to foreign insurance companies in the area of supplementary health insurance, which in fact means compulsory insurance in the existing system in our country. Without this, people cannot use health services and services. And that 10%, because employers will pay less for health insurance, we will pay all citizens and citizens, including those who have 622 euros in income, as much as you have set the price for all social transfers. I am sure that you have a complication or complication because the system in Slovenia is diametrically opposed to what you want to do and, of course, you are also aware that solidarity can only be brought down gradually by certain partial measures. To begin with, the colleague mentioned before me, lowering the ceiling to pay maternity benefits from 2.5 times the 1.5 times the guaranteed salary and, as I said before, a 5% reduction in compulsory health insurance into the supplementary individual insurance account, just for starters. The state of welfare without social policy cannot exist and because we hear many times from government representatives – also Prime Minister Janez Janša said today in this tone that government measures are not an intervention in the social state, that they constitute a socially very sensitive approach, because they will not affect the socially weak. Let me just stress that social policy goes beyond just helping the poor; social policy is a country's policy towards ensuring the quality of life of all social layers of democratic standard. The social state, if you like, is a civilisational acquisition. In the last few weeks, the government's political flags have been going to the same words, always the same words within the agreed content. I understand that government officials are aware that a hundred times repeated lie can become the truth, so they do what they do. But you know, as I've been listening to you since the early hours of the morning, since nine in the morning, when you want to inject into people's heads in every way, that saving is the only way out of the crisis, I am reluctant to ask these political floscules whether you really believe that by force, by strictness, by punishing in society we can create optimism, a healthy living environment for children, for families. Do you really believe that a decent life will stop at — I mentioned earlier — 622 euros in income per family member? Do you believe that this amount of pension is "superstandard" – given that you also tied an annual pension allowance to this amount? That children are an unnecessary cost to the state? Do you really believe that investing in education is a lost investment and that, for the sake of saving, it is necessary to hit the very middle layer, an educated staff who spend a month with a slightly higher salary than EUR 622? Are you aware that Slovenia has reached 18% according to the latest statistics or that in our country, according to the latest statistics, poverty has reached 18%? I'm talking about absolute poverty. I would like to hear today, but I regret that he is not, the chief government negotiator, at this point in time with the loaf of bread in the containers, this is the story from which he made fun of himself in his previous term as Minister of Economy for the 2004-2008 mandate. At today's meeting at the previous point, but since the points are very much connected, allow me to try to summarize the words of the SLS Member who said that today is a historic moment for Slovenia to support an even more acute version of the austerity measures. With horror, respectable colleagues and colleagues, I observe this kind of policy, which, past the opposition's warnings, goes beyond the warnings of civil society, the public, in fact, could say even in a somewhat foolish way that it accepts its silent reform of the rule of law, democratic and social states. During this week, we have reached the bottom of the implementation or non-implementation of the Public Finance Balance Act. The consequences will be seen. They'll be the most felt by their families. Mother of a single. They will also be felt by all those who are recipients of various transfers linked to local communities, because transfers to local communities are declining because there will be no more investment in local communities, as the state is also reducing the share of co-investment. This year at four percent, as far as I know, in the coming year even one percent. Public schools at the local level will also be affected here, and those who are now completely dependent on the assistance of local communities will be affected. And I'm only going to mention one category of these people, they're family helpers. And another interesting idea written by the government to explain the law on public finance balance. The government is aware that the need for long-term care, which by the way is not yet regulated in our country, is on the rise. There is an increasing need for long-term care, but as money is simply gone and resources in this area are falling, the government places responsibility on the local community. Really? Dear colleagues and colleagues, what we are all doing together today, in such a short time, will have serious negative consequences — and I am afraid of that. Slovenia needs an absolute government that does good, and a government that works for the well-being of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and not a government that fully burdens, and I will also say my own past mistakes, puts citizens and citizens on the shoulders only. By the way, I believe that sometimes it is good to be liked, even by some powers of the European Union, to be heard and that it feels good to be accepted by Angela Merkel with military honors. But, well-respected colleagues, it costs a lot of money. And the price to receive with military honour will, unfortunately, be paid by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mag. Grims, did you want something or just an application in the next round? Of course, that's absolutely true. We are moving on to the next debater, Mrs Tamara Vonta. Let me prepare myself, please, Mrs. Maja Dimitrovski.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u168	"I tell you this story, as it was true, with all my unchristian injustices and all my great sorrows. There's no lies, no nice words, no hypocrisy. The people of Bethane were rocking, and the platters hung their heads, for it rose up on the hill and entered the valley like a black death. The great and silent shadow came into the valley: the head of the dark cloud, the legs of the strong lambs on the bow; the light of the hair, and on the shoulder of the sun shimmered there to Ljubljana." At the wish of some, Ivan Cankar – we know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mrs Maja Dimitrovski has the floor to prepare, please, Gaspar Gaspar Misic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! As a member of Positive Slovenia, I protest against the way this law and the rebalancing has been adopted, which has evaluated parliamentary democracy and will be the foundation of this country and society. The adoption of this law represents only a subversion to, as is evident today, a longer exhaustion of society and the poverty of the social state, a new economic, social and political crisis. The latter comes not only from the solutions or provisions of this law but also from a message sent to us symbolically on the day of victory by Prime Minister Janez Janša. At a joint press conference with German Chancellor Angelo Merkel, this confirmed common views on the resolution of the debt crisis, namely the need to adhere to the rules of the fiscal pact and that there is a need for substantial savings to stabilise public finances that are expected to bring economic growth. Dear Mr Janez Janša, I regret that you are not present because I would like to remind you that the government of the political link "Merkozy", which has imposed a austerity regime on Europe with the victory of the socialist Hollande, has also resisted Greece, and that Slovenia is one of the few who promises allegiance to the German Chancellor in its firm insistence on a purely strict saving policy. Most of the others are beginning to learn that this policy is wrong, and they are calling for the promotion of economic growth. For example, even the President of the Italian Technical Government, Mario Monti. A number of studies by internationally recognised economic institutions have shown that reducing public spending has not encouraged consumers and businesses to increase expenditure and economic growth. It is therefore quite the opposite: reducing public spending is an economic recession or even depression only deepens. I hope that you have read the Bloomberg business portal, which notes in a recent contribution to Slovenia that Slovenia, like Spain, is trapped in the trap of austerity measures that stifle economic growth, making it difficult to stabilise the debt burden. All of this shows that you have no development strategy or plan to enable economic growth. These measures represent only a tightening of the belt, as you know, but prosperity cannot be achieved only by denial. Finally, let me quote one of the Nobel Prize winners, Paul Krugman, who wrote in one of the contributions that the euro and the big project of European integration with the breakdown of the duo "Merkozy" and the victory of Holland now have a much greater chance of survival than they had a few days ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič has the floor to prepare, please, Mrs Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will begin where Mr Marko Pogačnik ended up as a representative of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. In his opinion, he presented that in the SDS Group, he believed that the proposed law on the balance of public finances was the best possible solution for Slovenia at the moment, while as a representative of the opinion of the SDS Group, he was consciously overlooking the most critical position of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which was at the same time an untrustworthy legal and legislative service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which said that the law on the balance of public finances as a whole was contrary to the principles of the rule of law, since the law was unclear, opaque and inconclusive, which were elements of the principle of the rule of law. If that is not enough, I should like to list to you the articles of the proposed law, which are inconsistent and even contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. See, already in Article 1, I can tell you that it is inconsistent with the further text of the law, then we have in Article 9, that it is a violation of Article 2 of the Constitution, then Article 18 states that it is contrary to Article 38 of the Constitution, then Article 31 states that the law is incompatible with itself and Article 36, all the way up to Article 42 – is not substantively linked to the questions of public finances balance, the explanation is inconsistent with the text of the provisions, is flawed and even misleading. Then we go to the 46th article, which is inconsistent with itself, ambiguous. And we are going to Article 57 – we could also comment in the meantime, but they are not so in disagreement with each other and not with the constitution – Article 57 contains ambiguity and disharmony within the law itself. Article 91 below is an infringement of the constitutional rights of children with special needs for education – a violation of Article 52 of the Constitution. In article 92, we have a substantive point of view: it is an infringement of the constitutional right of children, once again with special needs, to education – an equal violation of Article 52 of the Constitution. Let's go to Article 113. The text of the article is exactly as the Constitutional Court has already repealed by a decision. 117. Article of the bill – violation of Article 2 of the Constitution, contrary to Article 14 of the Constitution – equality before the law. Article 118 is contrary to Article 14 of the Constitution, Article 125 is contrary to Articles 22, 23 and 25. Article 126 is contrary to Article 50 of the Constitution, Article 136 of the proposed law - interference with the expected rights, Article 2 of the Constitution is being violated here. 167. Article — Infringement of Article 28 of the Constitution, principle of legality in criminal proceedings, 169, violation of Articles 14 and 22 of the Constitution, equality before the law and equal protection of rights, and could also be listed. Even before you signed your whole text, you wrote the following: "Establishing the values that connect us, from the freedom of the individual who can only be limited to the freedom of others, and which the State can limit only if it is necessary to achieve the general public benefit; from solidarity that demands the compassionate care of the fellow and the provision of equal opportunities for all;" – I have read there earlier that the same possibilities are actually violated – "from connectivity and constructiveness, which will help to overcome old divisions and put in front of everything that unites us and connects us; from domesticism, and from discretion, because we are aware of our debt to all those generations that push into our independent state, which is the means of material and spiritual well-being of its inhabitants; – you have signed and written this text in the Treaty for Slovenia. Respected and respected, I cannot help but say that the text of the Public Finance Balance Act is not in line with the rebalancing and vice versa, nor with the social partners, nor is it supported by appropriate explanations, nor does it define the consequences and effects of the amendments to 45 laws. None of you, dear fellows and colleagues, which I am very sad about, could even say that I protest; but who cares, you too! I am confident – on these committees, especially on the Finance Committee, where I participated until 4 a.m. – that you did not really know how to explain any amendments. Do you even know what you're accepting? So raise your voice, tell me one reason, if I show you one amendment and challenge you to say, "Here, tell me what this amendment is talking about?" – you won't know! If you want, we can stage this here at the temple of democracy, and I'll prove to you that you have no idea that you don't even know what you're doing. That's the problem, and that worries me, and that worries all of us! We want to help you, and we don't want to do any fines. Respected and respected, in Positive Slovenia, we would like to point out that the Public Finance Balance Act is not simply about balancing public finances and measures related to the 2012 National Budget Balance proposal, but about introducing reform proposals that are not of a temporary nature or of a long-term nature, this is a unique example among comparable Member States of the European Union, as, on the other hand, reforms are needed to reduce the expenditure of public treasury financing through changes to individual laws and not in a package and in a marathon style, as is the case today in the independent Republic of Slovenia. With all due respect to all those who worked and worked in various ministries, which in fact also warned ministers and secretaries and everyone else, but unfortunately you didn't get to yours. Why? Because it's literally a dictatorship here: it has to be that way and otherwise it doesn't! I am just warning you that once this law is passed, that we will already feel it on our backs in the coming months, the problem will also be how much this reconstruction will cost us on the basis of the laws adopted. Did you calculate it? But we're going to be spasming and not wasting! But I tell you that it will cost us more and at the end of this year 2012 will show the right result! If I am wrong and I am wrong today because this video will remain somewhere in the archives of RTV Slovenia, I will also apologize to you for wanting to be successful without being unsuccessful. We always urge you to listen to us as the opposition; to those who are more experienced than we are – some of us are now the first, the great majority, we are Members and Members of the National Assembly – to those who have been here for years and years who have experience and want you well! I cannot understand how favored you are by the former Prime Minister, Mr Borut Pahor, and he wants to help you. Certain colleagues and colleagues from the Group of Social Democrats have really constructive proposals, and you briefly reject all the amendments proposed by the SD and Positive Slovenia. But don't we know how to think? Are we not the inhabitants of this country, and do we not want to live in a just and fair country? No, you're the only one who wants to live! But that's wrong because that's how you act and because that's how you understand it. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor. Let me prepare myself, please, Mr. Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u174	Your Honor! Dear Chairman! I am also protesting the destruction of this country, this society, the rule of law and the social state. As a representative of the opposition, I would also like to add a few thoughts on the measures that we have taken in Parliament in recent days and which are fundamentally interfering with the foundations of our society and the country. A huge number of simultaneous and very radical measures will certainly have more effects than just austerity and, in fact, represent reforms that introduce a new model of social relations in our country. I wonder whether those who run this country and so quickly, at night meetings and with a large number of amendments still coming really know and even predict what the real effects of this law will be and whether they are really sure the effects of this law will be positive. I also wonder where the right of the Government to carry out reforms in this way and inadvertently which have a fundamental impact on our lives. Perhaps this government and the coalition do have an agreement to save, as I have already said, my agreement to save is definitely yours, but you do not have my mandate and the mandate of a large number of citizens for major social reforms and radical changes to the regulation so far. Because companies cannot and must not go so fast, with one law of 261 articles, with 400 amendments and 50 comments from the parliamentary legislative service! The state is not a house made of lego cubes that can be dismantled at any time and assembled according to our needs. The country is not the numbers that we're throwing here and there, either, for as long as we don't get anything and nothing on each side, because it requires some kind of fiscal rule from us. In particular, the State is its people and their desire and the right to live here, in this territory and in this human community, a man worth living. So it would be time for the government to stop dealing with numbers and start thinking from numbers to people and not the other way around. Ministers and others in this coalition assure me that interventions into public finances and consolidation are necessary in order to achieve greater economic growth. I still don't understand how we're going to achieve greater economic growth by keeping our children safe, keeping our homes safe, taking away 700 euros in wages, putting them in the unemployment facility, at 400 euros in compensation. What will this mean for his life, for his motivation? What will this mean for his families who will truly receive minimum allowances for kindergarten, social benefits, and so on? Likewise, I still do not understand how it is possible for us in this country to adopt pension reform as soon as we have to, but at the same time now we are going to quickly retire to so many and so many thousands of pensioners in order to resolve it later. These pensioners will land in this same cash register. That is why I think it is time for politicians to stop being technocrats who take a level playing field and linearly cut off unnecessary costs, but also rights, but to start acting like politicians in the real sense of the word; these are those who think about what people need and how to ensure it. To ask what is the meaning of this country and what are the values that are the essence of our society and those from which it is impossible to depart: values of knowledge, solidarity, development, worth paying, public schools, public hospitals, universities. And when they answer these questions, let them look in the opposite direction for answers, in the direction of how to provide these needs. We have proposed many proposals with numbers and analyses, and we have also forwarded them to the opposition, and we regret that you did not want to listen. Finally, let me protest the devaluement of parliamentary democracy and the dismantling of the country. In addition to the people I have just talked about, the country also consists of its institutions. In addition to schools, kindergartens, health and social institutions, including Parliament, President of the State, coat of arms, anthem, flag. I therefore object to the way this law is adopted. In this country, as in most countries in the European Union and throughout the world, parliamentary democracy is applicable, where the principle of the division of power into legislative, enforcement and judicial matters applies. Thus this Parliament is not, or at least should not be, any ordinary government service that just confirms the Government's proposals overnight and without any serious consideration. In true parliamentary democracy, the government carries out its task, prepares the law, sends it to Parliament, and there the President of Parliament decides whether these proposals are even suitable for consideration. And it is only when it considers this that it submits a proposal to Members who then examine this too from different backgrounds, in particular in the sense that more people know more and in the sense of barriers and balances in place in such democracies. When I was employed in this house many years ago, it was impossible for Members to consider a law that was unconstitutional, unconstitutional, uncoordinated and what had been read in this law. Not just the content, but the procedure is important! The procedure is the mother of democracy, I said last time, and only with its respect is true democracy possible. You can really end the State Council, you can also end the National Assembly and everything else, so that we can make the government more economically efficient. In the end, the fate of our country can be decided by three or four people, if you consider it appropriate. However, respect for democracy is particularly important in times of crisis, but if it is a crisis in the form of war or just an economic crisis, there may be excesses that we have seen in recent history. I will end by saying that the measures you have proposed can be placed in a circle of countries that have duly complied with Europe's calls and have tightened the belt to the fullest extent possible. On the other hand, it can happen that we will fall on the test of democracy and we will, as a non-democratic state and a country that does not respect the law, step aside from Hungary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin has the floor to prepare himself, please, Mr Jožef Kavtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u176	Madam Vice President, thank you very much. Hello, ministers present, secretaries of state and all colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I protest; I protest that such a law will even be included in the meeting of the National Assembly. This isn't the law that deserves that name. It's some kind of legal mix, you could say some sort of stutterer, you could also call it a muck, because it has its origin in that 300-year-old inn. According to the form, what I said is a kitten, but according to the content, it is a political manifesto combining the non-liberal doctrine of DLGV and the yellow book with which my client colleague Gaspar Gaspar Mišič is waving quite a bit. Indeed, it is a political manifesto because by force of law it changes the established social relations in this country without serious public treatment, without an exchange of arguments, but only by night, by force and assuming that it is all the fault of the economic and political crisis. Of course it's her fault, it's her fault, too, but you don't do things on the right end and with a great deal of delay! Such things as we are dealing with and accepting today have already been rejected by some countries. They are overturned and a new paradigm is emerging in Europe, the paradigm of the growth pact – I hope you have already heard that – but not just the fiscal pact. It is true that some countries such as Germany have been fortunate that someone else has prepared these conditions for this government, which is currently ruling in Germany, because major structural reforms have already been carried out by former Chancellor Schröder and this government has actually come to safety. You, who make up most of the current coalition, have, except that I will not be unjust to some parties, broken down all those reforms that the previous government has tried to bring to life. If we had these things under my roof, we would not have to send smoke signals to Brussels as Indians from the hill to the hill, because these signals would be materialized in reducing the risks and increasing the rating of Slovenia. If anyone thinks that the adoption of this law will significantly increase the rating of Slovenia, he is wrong. Only enforcement will be closely monitored, but this is not what Europe expects of us. Europe expects us to have serious structural reforms in the labour market, pension reforms, health reforms and in our specific case also legal reforms in terms of regulating unnecessary referendums. These are things that would raise our credit rating a lot more than what we're going to do today or today, because I certainly can't put my finger on a key in such a legal code. Let us look again; most people in Slovenia do not even know what the consequences of this law will be. But he's interfering with all relationships! It would be better to say that this is a law on imbalance, not on balance, because it will actually cause major problems and will not substantially reduce our debt. I would even like to say that restrictive policy will lead to reduced aggregate demand, thus lower consumption and consequently lower economic growth. We're going to get involved not only in the recession spiral, but we're going to get depressed. I know you don't believe this, but we're going to talk, I think, like, six months ago. I must once again protest that, in this way, or even in the way that the unions have learned only later, they try different handballs, we call them counterbants, they take some mini-reforms into life. What else is an attempt, say, to change the pension law? [[advertising from the hall]] I know it's gone, because thank God the unions missed it; but please don't bother me. I know it's gone, but there's still a lot of other things in there, which is also an attempt at covert reform, but the real structural reforms are being made by this coalition, I don't know why, it doesn't want to go. But to be perfectly honest, I doubt it's against that doctrine that was written in, now the Gaspers, the yellow book. Indeed, personal accounts must be introduced in the context of pension reform and it is therefore necessary to communicate with the coalition and the public for some time. This is actually the goal of all of this; in short, to have some relationships. And if I am purely direct: you demand the introduction of a golden rule into the Constitution and, on the other hand, we knowingly violate Article 2 of the Constitution, we have forgotten about it, and this is that Slovenia is a legal and social state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Kavtičnik has the floor to prepare Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u178	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! Today I have stopped by and warned of this speed of adoption of these two important laws. My colleagues and colleagues who were in front of me also gave reasons. There are many reasons that somehow go in this direction that these two marriages, or this marriage before us, cannot be adopted. Look, it's just the fact that now these amendments are coming that are so interfering with matter that before I spoke an hour ago, I was talking about an intervention in 244 laws, now we can talk about interventions in 38 laws and as colleague Andreja said, if we waited a little longer, we could probably settle the matter and be acceptable. So once again, I'm saying you're really in a hurry, and when you're in a hurry, you're making a lot of mistakes. Look, there are a lot of experts who have warned that these two laws or this law is not good, that we are not talking about the Law and Law Service, about certain experts, and not only will I read to you for refreshment something from the magnetogram of the Education Committee, where Mr Vogrinc of the National Cultural Council said that "saving means that we are putting something aside to invest, and this is something else. And what is it that is really about, the other words that Mr. Minister used well say: " – so we are talking about the Minister of Education – "... cuts, reduction, abolition. So it's an amputation. Smart countries, as has already been said, invest in their future at least the same time of crisis, which means that they invest in knowledge, invest in human resources." Someone also said, "If such radical changes actually come into force, as predicted or somehow announced by the Government, then with full responsibility I stress that the Academy of the University of Ljubljana will no longer be able to carry out the study process after some time, which means that students will remain in institutions that simply cannot function anymore." Your Honor! In our country, we have most of the wealth we have in humans. And we have to invest in these people. If we don’t invest in knowledge – the colleague said that sometimes we should take a step back, maybe somewhere, but in the field of education, forgive me, but don’t! If we're just standing there, the train's gone by. Well, we can't make such general mistakes here, so we have to listen. I believe we're listening, but as I've seen today, we have a completely different understanding. You know, when I was still a teacher, a professor from Dalmatia came in, and we took the kids skiing, and in the morning we walked when the sun was rising and the snow was shining, and I said, "Stypee, look how beautiful it is!" And he looked, and he said, "Do you?" Well, he didn't see it, just like you can't see it now. But listen, I'm sorry! There are many ways to bring this country out of the crisis, and believe us not only are we fools and we are not wicked. We want to tell you and show you another way, but maybe it's that intermediate good. Listen to us too, not just the streets when it collapses. You listened to the unions – thank God you listened to them – because they threatened you with a referendum. If I move on to some articles now. Thank God I can say that I have received these amendments, which remove certain restrictive measures that would really endanger the functioning of public education, public health and so on. If I move on to paragraph 53, which deals with the merger of institutions or the tasks to be performed by these institutions. Now certain tasks were prescribed for these institutions, and they knew which institutions were involved. I'm talking about the Pedagogical Institute, the Institute of Education, the Andragog Center and so on. Now all these tasks are written down, and below, that "public institutions can be set up, and the government will decide." This means that these public institutions, which are now being abolished, the people who were there, will either go on the road or they will be replaced – I think more because we don't have so many, the main ones will be replaced and you can replace them with those who will listen to you. I move on to 106th Article, which reads: "The board of directors may also be admitted to the postgraduate study programmes for which the Council of Experts of the Republic of Slovenia issues..." So far it has been a school for principals, and now it will be able to take over some management, the Faculty of Management – because we know it – where this exam will take place. I mean, it's so prosaic right now, it kind of looks like it. You know, since we haven't been since yesterday, we already know some things about how the ZUP was introduced for principals of primary schools, the Law on Administrative Procedure, and it was seen that this was unrelated, and I did this exam in some colleges. Well, if I move on to the 72nd, where it's said they'll be from the first to the ninth grade. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u179	Excuse me, Mr. Kavticnik. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u180	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u181	We're at Article 1, so I'd like to ask that you're a little bit [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u182	Thank you for warning me. I'm sorry if I broke the rules, though. Well, there's a lot that's still open. I am glad that certain things have been accepted, that you have understood them, corrected them, but there are some such, very important things that need to be changed, corrected, so this law, unfortunately, I will not be able to confirm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u184	Thank you very much. I protest against the evaluation of the rule of law. And that's why, because [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Comrade Jerovšek, then I will listen to you. Also to reduce the accessibility of higher education to all social groups and thus to a quality, European comparable study. My colleague Kavtičnik spoke about education and I am certainly joining this and I am pleased that the coalition or government has only recognized that certain measures are excessive, too drastic, i.e. those which we can really say are interfering in the areas, especially in the areas of expertise for which, as has already been clearly highlighted in the Committee meetings today and the previous days, professional discussions would be necessary. We are also concerned that these government and coalition proposals save where we should not: young people, children, young families. And if we look at infrastructure projects, including projects, also in the fact that we want to have a balanced regional development in the Republic of Slovenia. According to the proposal of this law, this will unfortunately be forgotten. As already discussed today by colleague Zanoškar, Koroška will be forgotten, Koroška is not, perhaps we can say this to a great extent for the White Land and so on. The third development axis, the southern part – projects, land buy-back is reduced by a million 200 because: this and this has not yet been arranged, there is no agreement, this initiative. But interestingly, six months ago he was the competent Minister of Transport – public divisiveness and the picture was completely different. The Public Finance Balance Act – indeed, I do not mind – but unfortunately so much the negativeness that this balance in the Republic of Slovenia will really be disrupted and, as has been said many times today, unbalanced. Our conclusion is that the Public Finance Balance Act brings about reform changes, as it changes as we have already said several times – from 45 we have now reached 44 existing laws. Coherence with the social partners – yes, but not all. So it's still a bit of a bitter taste. And you can't believe this marriage is 44, as you might call it. Why 44? [[...]] Because it interferes with 44 laws. At least I think it's kind of a better word than forty-four because it means two equal numbers: four plus four. At least this is balanced, because unfortunately the name of the balanced law cannot say it, reduce it there and so on, it is all a long way from legal balance; unless someone really wants to give up the funds. When I look at the Minister of Defence, it just makes sense to me, because there is so much reduction in defense – always. And so did we, because we didn't know where to take it, really. What will this Law 44 cause between citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia? Some concern about the height of maternity leave; concern about the fact that this future mother is already a little thinner, a little more sensitive, more careful, she may also be concerned about how she will pay off the loan and spend the family during the maternity period, even though both partners are employed. Thank God if that's the case. Others are concerned about the reduction of their pension. I wonder for myself if it's okay. Don't blame your colleagues who have experienced horrors, maybe as children, other world wars, but I don't know, I think it's wrong that we decide that those who have experienced the horrors of war, who have fought for us, that these people are in some way – not to sound too rude, but unfortunately I can't find another word – being punished for fighting for us. To live in peace, freedom, even more so, to speak Slovenian, not Italian or German. We can speak Italian or German, but the official language here is Slovenian, in addition to minorities, to whom we also recognise this. However, those who have not felt the horror of war do not realize what it means to someone who is now 90 years old. At home we have a grandmother, 94 years old, and the others who listen to us and say, "Yeah, what's that now? What do you decide about that?" I can say that my parents have not yet experienced World War II because they were born after the war, and it surprises me that we are now making decisions and so drasticly interfering – as someone has already said, why do we intervene in some way into a vulnerable and vulnerable group of people during a mature age. Although it may not suit anyone according to some ideological belief. At the time, however, there was a great deal of unity, courage, awareness, national interest, love for Slovenian language, Slovenian prose and poetry. [[...]] I think that you are one to another with such a conclusion – and it is right, as my opposition colleagues say, that it is wrong to say: Members of the National Assembly have accepted this. In certain such measures, it would certainly be right to say: the coalition has taken this. I think that some of the voters of the coalition have probably responded now, and that is not the same. Because today we have our own language, our own independence, our own independence. Because in some ways in individual laws, individual amendments, but I am referring to Article 1, it is about reducing rights, reducing the amount of pensions, reducing the amount of maternity leave and so on. It is interesting that this reduction of pensions mainly tends to tange those who were also yesterday, still, as always, celebrated the 9th of May, the day of victory or now the day of peace, as well as the celebration of the city of the city of the city of Ljubljana. When someone of the largest coalition party of my life yesterday, not here in the National Assembly, but in Ljubljana, he said he was disappointed because there are no projects because there is no investment law, because there is no investment cycle, which I myself have talked about and would mean creating the necessary economic growth. Now we know that the projections for the following year show that half a percent will go back to economic growth — if that is all that is going to happen and so on. It seemed to me that this mega law, Law 44 of the Law, on the balance of public finances, as it is officially called, was far from balanced and packed in, everything. It's as if someone said that you pick up a broom and sweep it. You sweep it away because you sweep up bigger trash, but also because you sweep some smaller ones. But if you have to use a vacuum cleaner, you really clean up the last powder. I am afraid that this law has intervened in some way – article 1 states all the laws – but, unfortunately, so far away. It is not just road infrastructure and projects that I mention on my own many occasions, because I can also feel what this means every day, to the successful work of various institutions that have somehow not been recognised as successful, because now it seems that they will no longer have this status as it would be right to continue to recognise it. She's a magician's colleague today. The stepfather, as well as other colleagues, spoke about how 10% in the United States are earmarked for research and development. With us, it's significantly less than a fifth. When we got the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service on 48 pages, it was like a huge blow. Confirmation of our warnings that Law 44 as a whole is contrary to Article 2 of the Constitution. We talk a lot about it being contrary to the Constitution, but let me just read it. Article 2 of the Constitution states: "Slovenia is a rule of law and a social state." Therefore, I protest that, by law 44 of the Public Finance Balance Act, we are significantly interfering with wages, regressions, social transfers. Indeed, it has been more than 20 years since Slovenia's independence, and we are also interfering with the area of veterans of the war for Slovenia – perhaps there will be another amendment, and something will change, that I will not accidentally say anything wrong and that I have not been able to recognize that it has been corrected – we are lowering standards in universities, schools and kindergartens. This unimaginable, Law 44 of Slovenia and Europe, but if it were the unanimous coordination of social partners, the atmosphere would be right, the atmosphere towards positiveism, the atmosphere of enthusiasm and, above all, in the media, the social partners would see an even greater emphasis on the confidence that we are on the right path to bring about a path out of the crisis, in order to bring about development, so that it will not forget the demographicly threatened areas – and it would certainly be better for some of the competent to visit it with a helicopter than on the road. At least the White Krajina is. That it will not feel that people fall into apathy, willlessness, starting with the young concerned, future parents, public administration workers who get the feeling that despite their efforts – that is, the ministers have been working in these days, and even in the National Assembly, not just us, not just ministerial teams, how they worked, how they worked! We cannot imagine living without nurses in hospitals, nursing caregivers in the homes of elderly, young teachers in the outskirts of Slovenia who are worried about whether we will really stop and change certain school environments, some schools have still been allowed to turn public, some independent schools into branch schools. This will not require so many principals, so many deputies, not so many librarians, not teachers, not psychologists and so on. If we look at the music school, the revised legislation will mean that there will be only one music school on the outskirts of Slovenia, and it does not know if it will exist, and there will be no professional staff, musicians for urban music, for wind orchestras, various societies. For the young generation, we're going to have to sort it out somehow. Surprisingly, standards are also changing for ladies who clean after school, in kindergartens — squares. I am worried and I hope that this will also be corrected if it is not already that the tutor or assistant will not be alone for just a few hours and that there will never be any such disaster as we have experienced before, since it is very great to take care of eighteen little boys at once, or sixteen, as well as twelve. Slovenia needs a government that works for citizens and citizens. Let us not forget this, but at the moment, respected and valued representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague of the coalition, unfortunately, I cannot support the proposal for a law on the balance of public finances as well as the balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u185	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the debaters in this circle. She's still here. [[...]] Excuse me, do you have procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u186	Procedurally yes, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u187	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u188	Earlier, you warned our colleague, Mr Kavtičnik, that he was not on the right track when he explained. Here we have Mr Jerovšek, who has already intervened three times in the word and in accordance with Article 77, which states that if he reaches out to the speaker in the word – and he reaches out more to the speakers of our group in the word and you have not warned him. I ask you kindly to respect the Rules of Procedure consistently and to warn someone who interferes and disturbs the debate. You can also use even Article 67 or some other article, because I think that if you had warned him twice by now, you would have come up with another article to remove him from the session, literally. I don't know why someone's acting like that. Members and Members of Parliament have the right to express our views in this Chamber of Democracy. I ask you kindly, my fellow Members and my colleague, and the President, that you also stick to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u189	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Because for now we've exhausted the list of debaters and because he's a magician. Grims has already raised his hand to want to discuss, so I am now opening a re-appeal for discussion to article 1 of the Public Finance Balance Act. I'm opening the application. I find that seventeen have been reported. The first word is Mrs Patricia Schulin. Let me prepare myself, please, Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u191	Madam President, thank you for your word. Once again, I'm here to greet you. The Public Finance Balance Act is a law that certainly contains major changes; changes affecting a large number of other laws, some permanent and some temporary [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u192	Wait a minute. Excuse me, Mrs. Shulin. Please, all colleagues and colleagues, including from Positive Slovenia and from other parties, politely please do not disturb the debate. Anyone who applies will have a chance to debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u193	Thank you very much. If I repeat in my work that a law to balance public finances is a law that certainly interferes with amendments to other laws, this cannot be denied. This will also resolve some things that will be permanent and others temporary, so to speak, during the economic crisis until economic growth exceeds 2.5% per year. This will make it possible to reduce the expenditure of the state budget and other cash registers and thus establish a basis for balancing public finances over the next period. It is also about the urgent need to curb the growth of public expenditure, which is why these urgent changes to public foundations are necessary. In order to reduce the deficit, there is also a need for some speed of response, it is said, to quickly reduce the deficit means that this law must be adopted urgently. I will certainly support it, because, as we have heard many times today, our deficit must be below 3% in 2013 in order for the European Council to be trusted by the European Commission. Even the obvious that he's interfering with the weakest, I refuse. The unions, together with the Government, were negotiating, and indeed there were many positions, but today's agreement that they would not file referendum applications had been signed by 26 unions, testifying to the fact that the unions and the government had agreed on a common ground. We must mention again that Slovenia is one of the rare ones that has not reduced the public deficit in the way that the agreement and commitment have been all the time. We have also learned something in the last three years about debt, which has not been properly invested, at least not in terms of new programmes, new economic innovations. Every year, two billion deficits, as indicated by the indicators, did not bring up the economy and did not bring new jobs. Just the opposite. Our unemployment cannot be overlooked. Even the evidence that construction is being destroyed is somehow unacceptable. It should be noted that it is precisely because of these investments that may have been missed that we have been sinking even more. This will certainly require future reflection on what this economic environment should be, which will not only be attractive to domestic companies. We must be aware that we are living in a common global world, in Europe or beyond, and that clear signals must also be given to foreign investors to come to us. If, at the beginning of this day, I correctly understood the Minister of Finance, he mentioned that from abroad, serious investors have somehow made it known that they have not found on our side a real interlocutor who would understand their desire to join our economic council if you want to. That is why we are today adopting a law to balance finances. That's why. I understand the concern of citizens, especially those at the edge of the social threshold. In particular, those below this threshold, I understand that they are concerned about their survival, but, according to the Government's assurances, and as far as I look at the law on public finances balance, these measures have not touched those who have less than €622. This means that those measures will not be affected by families that have 4 members and their revenues of 2 000 euros. I have also been approached by mothers with young children or other children who drive them to kindergarten, which is a reasonable concern, since the full cost of kindergarten is, we know, high. The current union standoff introduces 30% of parental pay. None of them, however, told me that she had decided for the other child or that she would have decided for him only because the country offered free kindergarten. I think that the Slovenians will continue to stand as a nation and that together we will somehow go through all these measures in solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor. Let me prepare myself, please, Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u195	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear coworkers and dear coworkers, distinguished ministerial council! I would like to begin with the words that I have already concluded today in the course of the debate in the context of the budget rebalancing, somehow with the final objective of all these measures. Today we have spoken in a number of different areas, but I think that the ultimate goal of all Members and Members is our way of political action to raise the well-being of all our citizens, of all vulnerable groups, of all those who want to do something. See, phraseology, as we used today 'demontage of the rule of law', 'protest' against the fact that money for higher education is being abolished, that only higher education leads us forward, is a certain demagogy, which at this time, unfortunately, far from the truth, and we are still in some unrealistic world. I would like to say a few more of my thoughts, which I think have a fundamental, highly reasoned basis. In particular, I would like to say something about the arguments cited today by the opposition regarding the fundamental approach that we are raising the revenue side only by raising VAT. Already on several committees, for finance, for European affairs, we have debated this VAT increase. As an economist, I took a look at some of the historical foundations that we call "historia master vitae est", which has been happening in all capitalist countries for the last 50 years with a rise in taxes, especially the situation in which Slovenia is at this point. I can say that there is total structural unemployment, there are major structural problems, but we must be aware, above all, that we are a post-communist country, that we have an incredibly small market, that we are export oriented and, above all, we must take the argument also on the basis that we have an incredibly poor purchasing power, especially in the middle of the population, which has somehow been neglected or destroyed by the transition to capitalism. This was the distribution of Slovenian society. We are one society with 5 or 7% of extremely rich people, the upper middle layer has fallen extremely, we have a kind of lower middle layer, and most people are in the lower layer. See, VAT raise – for example, let's compare it with countries. In Spain, the calculation was a few years ago that the VAT raise would somehow reflect. If we raise the above VAT, it brings at annual level, I think 50 to 70 million euros. Look, raising VAT is a very double-edged sword. In the first phase of the country, which has incredible purchasing power — there are economic theories about the transition of buyers. In the home lingon or in the home language, it means that it is no longer worth it. So, all those you talked about today about Trieste, which you were talking about Austria, shopping in Graz and everything else; I don't know how many people today remember not buying in Metro anymore – it's not worth it! It's a court sword because people's shopping habits are changing. Today, Slovenia, which has also invested heavily in trade, so we are soft in all trades. We've invested a lot. Shops also bring profits from foreigners who buy certain items here, things because they are worth it. We could live very well with regard to our geostrategic position only at the expense of shops, casinos and all the other things, perhaps we could ignore the other activities at all. And from tourism. This strategy of ours, and since we are now in the process of raising VAT, of course I strongly reject it. However, the second point is that when VAT rises in the second phase, what has happened in Spain is that some profits of certain companies, which are now at a level where there is another psychological advantage, that we still have so many and so many companies in Slovenia that have some minimum profits or show them, are also destroying this psychological limit of these companies and will prove to be flawed. That's the two of you. First thing that is. If we're going to do this, we're sure to fill the budget in the first phase. I think in a month, two, three there are some effects; but the theory of people's shopping habits is changing. I'm talking about those people from Austria, Italy, about everyone who's going to Slovenia today and shopping in Slovenia like a soft spot at this point, we used to talk about petrol tourism and other things: all these things change once. For example, we can talk about the border area of the former dusty free shop where people are mass buying cigarettes, tobacco and all the other things today. These people are the upper middle class they have and they are shopping in Slovenia. Once this psychological border is transformed, we will not change it, even if we reduce VAT. It takes years and years for you to attract those buyers back. And it's this big double sword today that those who may not be home in the economy will find it hard to understand. Saving is therefore necessary and there is no other alternative! Dear colleagues, there is no other alternative! This is not an attack on teachers that we urgently need, it is not an attack on pensioners, it is only a naked realization that Slovenia is currently uninteresting, uncompetitive, that it has been operating on some concept for the past 65, 70 years. We have conquered ourselves with independence, but we have not somehow made this independence in our hearts and heads. This is a trend that continues and that we have not cut off or with the output of this former country. It's our system. We would have the social state of the former communist system, but we see the standard of Austrians, Germans, Swiss and other systems where capitalism has been constant since 1870. Where are we today? All these things are why you're talking about tycoons today. Of course! Today you were talking about the end of World War II, the day of victory. Victory day has been a certainty – and we agree with that – I do not think there are any victories here, that there are no doubts that we respect these matters. But the other thing is that after the day of victory, the days came, where 80,000 people ended up in some caves, we are talking about some Slovenian elites who had reached 70% before World War II in the then Drava Banovina, 80% of Austria's development. Look, the city elites, the peasant elites, the academic elites, the military elites ended up there. Our biggest problem is that we miss the entire population of these best people here in Slovenia. We are missing people who, according to the meritocratic principles of the century, have proved that they are the best, that they have the best genetic material. That's our big problem. In Austria, these elites took power at the time of the development of the second republic in 1955, and in 1975 they brought Austria into these high states. This is the main problem of Slovenian society. Today we are taking this system forward, looking for the benefits of communism and looking for the benefits of capitalism – there is no such thing! If we have chosen capitalism, we must believe it, we must believe that we are good, that we are active, and that we must move on. To go now along Tito's path, as I can see around May 1st: all these stories, and the Union of Communists of Yugoslavia, and carry the flags See, this is a mistake, we will no longer follow Titus' path, because we know better. [[...]] We will take a better path, on that path, that our pensioners will have, like Austrian pensioners, thousands of euros in pensions, so that they will not walk but ask if they will have bread, but that they will be able to travel around the world in retirement and go to see places they could not see during their operations. That's our goal. We forget that today we are still paying a tax on the former system to pay an incredible number of ratings or some privileges created in the course of the previous country. That's our knowledge, that's all! Now it's time to roll up our sleeves. This law that we are adopting today, the balance of the public budget, is an important law, such as the important balance of the budget, that is the sign that Slovenia is on the right track, that is a sign to all institutions in Europe and the world. We're on the right track, we've overlooked, we're ready to respond, we've got good people, we'll find some systemic solutions. But since you've been talking about higher education today, I'm wondering, all the companies you're listing, all the Slovenian brands that you're listing that you've managed in the highly developed Western markets, I wonder if Iva Boscarola's plane came from the Institute of Engineering? [[...]] Probably not. Was the glass of Rogaška developed at a chemical institute? It wasn't! Let us ask about all companies working for Google today whether this was in the field of Slovenian universities. It wasn't there again! Again, we ask about certain innovations in the field, such as electronics in the area where I worked, the card system. In the field of telemetric data, we have a company in Zasavje that works, as you know, special technology for telemetry transmission between Space Shuttl and NASA. It didn't all come about. [[...]] So all this society, the people who had to work for 400, 500, 600 and 700 euros, who didn't have a chance to study, and who gave this opportunity to these people who are studying to give us back everything they've studied for the last 20 years, to give it back to our Slovenian society, to have high-value products, with a high-end brand, we didn't get it all back. And now we're wondering where that money went. Did it work? What did we get for this money in high school? How many of these innovations have come into the economy today and what products have we been able to place with high added value? That's our question now. If today you have no value added product in developed markets, then you automate production. If you have it, then it's handmade production with high added value. We're missing him here! And now, if we don't have that, then we have to step back; at first we have to save what is the basis, by saving it again in financial institutions, we have the opportunity to apply for funds. Above all, this will be known on bonds that I think must fall. The yield of Slovenian bonds must go up to four percent, then we will again be interesting for some foreign investors. Above all, it has to go for one flexible labour law and then we normally have to cut into being interesting for foreign investors. I know some investors who are willing to invest several hundred million euros in Slovenia. Look, first they ask me about tax legislation, flexible labour legislation, they always ask me that. They're asking me if we still have a communist in power because the Americans and the Germans are all allergic to this thought together. I'm sorry to have to say this! Then they ask me when this will be resolved so they can come in. You have an amazingly beautiful country, very good people who have appeared abroad and an incredibly healthy environment — when can we come? You will come when we are united here when we put our hands together and we will say: look, we are ready, Slovenia is ready. 20 years after we got this country when we fought it, we finally missed it, we ended up with this system, and we got into capitalism with both legs. This is our current goal, and this law, all we're going to do in the next few moments is all this. [[...]] Also what the opposition was talking about: entry, i.e. input on the revenue side. I may be wrong, but I think yesterday our prime minister was with a prime minister who is currently leading the main policy in Europe because we are heavily dependent on Germany. I don't think he went to play tennis in Domžale, but he went to Germany where he was looking for new jobs and new opportunities for the Slovenian economy. And it's the right thing to do. This is what the government itself is doing in order to get something on the revenue side. But first we need to take some measures here to consolidate ourselves and get on the real ground. Dear colleagues, I thank you. I know it's been a long time. I know some of you are asleep. Some of you are taking a nap. Unfortunately, we have to clear these things up today. Mrs Brunskole, your grandmother will live on, she won't get sick, I believe she'll get a pension, and that everything will be nice and well greeted. And thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I can't discuss this when I'm in session, but I'm gonna do it. Otherwise, I would ask that we do not in any way accuse each other of whether someone is sleeping when they are listening to the debate or looking at it in any way. I'd really like to ask you not to be offended. Procedural, Mr. Franzege? [[No, no, ……]] [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? Here you go. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u197	Of course all companies, all excellent products of the Slovenian economy are also the product of Slovenian knowledge. At Ivo Boscarol, engineers trained by the Slovenian University work in many other pearls of the Slovenian economy by people who have studied within public education and who have built and acquired their scientific and research excellence within Slovenian universities. Many products today also come from within universities, within public research institutes and slowly transform into economic reality. During the last three years of the economic crisis, Slovenia has understood the importance of investing in science and development as the only factor in the medium and long-term recovery of the economy; even more so, increasing its competitiveness and innovation. Slovenia is now in a relatively favourable position in terms of innovation, it is not in the first group of the most innovative companies in the world or in Europe, but it is in the follow-up group. In the same group, by the way, where Austria is, with which my colleague Beznik is so fascinated. I think he's a little sorry about Austro-Hungarian. Above all, over the last three years, we have radically increased our investment in research and development, and together we have achieved a once-in-a-lifetime increase in investment until then. It's a priceless promise. I have repeatedly said that Slovenia has set up a new development model within the mandate of Borut Pahor. This was an increased investment in human social security because we understand that it is only security that gives courage to a person to get out of this curtain. The one who lives in fear goes into a corner and is in defense. That it has radically increased resources for science and development, because we understand that only complex knowledge, innovation, contribute to having more innovative products tomorrow, more innovative services, to choose a better competitive position on the market for these services, and that we will also win a better price for these products and services. This better price will also be the source of our experts and our people's ability to pay better. And thirdly, we have radically increased funds to modernise the economy. All those tasks that have been left behind in the reform process of the government before the government of Borut Pahor. Today you have talked about Gerhard Schröder and that today Greece, pardon Germany, is in good shape because it has implemented the necessary reforms early enough. You've given us this as a lesson; make sure you don't make the same mistake now. My dears, another government has forgotten to do structural and other reforms to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and to stabilise public finances; and this was the government of Janez Janša. It was not until 2008, when we entered the crisis, that in Slovenian politics, a new ruling policy, then came to realize that with increased investment in restructuring the economy must be achieved what you did not achieve in the preceding period, because you obviously did not have any ambition to achieve. That's to be understood. You have talked about many reasons today, including the radical increase in Slovenia's debt and public debt growth since the beginning of the crisis. However, we need to understand that the increased indebtedness of the country is due to what we wanted: for the first time, to stabilise the social picture, and for the second time, to improve the key development factors, so that Slovenian society develops faster. And I still say: we need a strong country, we need a state in the development process if we are to make progress. I trust the Slovenian economy, but this Slovenian economy needs the country as a strong partner in development. Some people here think that we don't really need countries to be a disruptive element at all. So much for a few explanations.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Frangejo, as a motioner. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to prepare Mr Michael Prevc. A replica, Mr. Breznik? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u199	I'm sorry. Only a few things I'd like to replicate to my colleague Frangejo. I can say that I always support certain funds invested in research and development. This is absolutely necessary. I think we're all aware that we need to be a society of knowledge. But, look, we're a society of knowledge today in the field of sociology, not science. We have invested incredible resources in social profiles. Sociology is also necessary, and this was now some kind of attack, because, I think, there's a sense that it's some kind of race against social profiles. See, sociology can today give some answers, in particular it can elevate some of our good brands that we Slovenians have, to open up new markets that are urgently needed. Look, today we are missing this feeling that everyone has to study – we have destroyed certain regulated professions. We opened a high school in every village. We don't have normal professional personnel today. When the government went to Ptuj today, or when we go anywhere, the first thing, respected politicians, is to give us back the CNC grapplers, bakes that I won't go to the cafe and say, "The waiter!" And she'll say, "No, I'm not an intellectual studying at a university." I'm sorry, I need a Kenlar with a regular four-year or three-year guest school that has a job to do. Let the student study! When he finishes his studies, let him go to work. It's all confused with normal healthy logic. Then the whole thing starts to happen. Parents say, "Study. Go to high school, daughter, so you don't have to work." Are we all going to study or what? Are we all going to study? What are we going to study? That's what I always ask. And here's the problem of this investment in higher education. Yeah, invest in knowledge, investment in development, but you need to know why we're investing. As we invest globally, we have run out of quality secondary education, and we have run out of doctoral, sub-doctor studies, especially in the innovation phase. Once again, watch out for the phrase "innovation." We're not an innovation society, we're an innovation society. We have good ideas on how to make them happen, but innovation is the final product of innovation when a product or creation comes to the market and gets its price on the market. And that's the basis. And that's our high school problem today. This is not a race against higher education, it is just a pursuit to demand that what we invest in higher education, we get from higher education back to get some specialized knowledge that will go into products or services that will compete with us in a strong, developed environment. It's the only job. And of course, let us limit part of the higher education study in those professions where they do not have the normal opportunity to work in the labour market today. We have structural unemployment, we have even inflation of a certain staff [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u200	Three minutes [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u201	Who won't get a job today. [[...]] I think we understand what this is all about. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u202	Thank you, Mr. Breznik. You can check in later if you want. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u203	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I would also like to discuss and express my position on austerity measures and on the budget's balance, and in particular to respond to some of their findings to the opposition Members. Let me first explain that in New Slovenia we are well aware that austerity measures are nowhere popular and do not bring political points to the parties that support such measures. However, most countries in Europe could not avoid them during the economic crisis. Slovenia is deeper than other countries in the crisis and, worse still, is seriously behind in action in this area. There was much to be heard today: austerity measures are a necessity. In the debate, I have repeatedly seen evidence of how Nova Slovenija can support austerity measures affecting the family area, although this political party is the most committed to the family, its rights and children's rights. In New Slovenia, we are aware that the burden of the crisis must not be placed on future generations and generations and that action must be taken in the area of reducing public consumption immediately. We are also aware that the burden of the crisis needs to be shared and that part of saving will also affect the family and education sectors. When preparing austerity measures, Nova Slovenija sought to make measures in these areas nicer than they were originally set up in the government proposal, and thanks to our party, I can say, and also in the understanding of other coalition parties, of course, cuts in these areas are not so radical that they significantly deteriorate the material situation of the family. When you all talk about how poor they are and how poor families, children, and mothers will be, I would stress something vital. A significantly greater intervention in the material status of the family means the law adopted by the previous government and started with 1. 1. 2012. These decisions are now coming to our homes and to our families, this is the law on the exercise of rights from public funds. In adopting this law, we have heard a variety of arguments that this law will establish order and a fair system in the field of social security benefits and that it will not affect the wealthiest in rights. It's not like that today. Grants have been abolished for single families, and children’s docks have been abolished for underage students. However, for about the same amount, according to the previous Government, a child allowance should be increased for parents. However, once again, this is not the case at all, and families are affected even to the point where some parents are thinking about getting their children out of school and boarding school because they are not able to cover the costs of transporting to school or staying a child in boarding school. If I say so, 210 euros will come from boarding school and some interstate bus plus urban transport will charge around 170 euros. Let me tell you one of my own experiences, I spoke to a mother yesterday who has a larger number of children — 7. As a result, her family budget has fallen by €350. The youngest child goes to high school and really says she doesn't know where to put him, because she can't afford a boarding school to go to that school she wants to go to. This law was the one that actually meant a radical incision into the material rights of the family. The burden of the crisis has also shifted the current opposition to the shoulders of the weak ones. The new Slovenia will therefore endeavour to make the law cited, although it has barely entered into force and the beneficiaries have not yet received all the decisions, so many complications have been corrected as soon as possible by providing at least minimum social benefits for poorer families and large families who will or will remain poor families because of these measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Mikhael Prevc has the floor to prepare, please, for Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u205	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Let me say a few things again. Here, from my right today was actually heard from every speaker at the beginning to protest. I wonder who it's against? Who are you protesting against? Or against the law, or against the coalition, or against the government that drafted this law? Against the government that has so responsibly tackled this difficult situation that we are in? Practically within two months, the government has prepared – all ministers have actually participated in this project – this demanding project of austerity measures has been prepared and has chosen this difficult path to solving this situation in which we are. It was also heard on the right that this law was a unique one. It's true, it's true to a stranger, but in a positive way. It is true that such a law has probably never been adopted before — as extensive a law as it is with such extensive areas, complex areas in this area as we are now adopting. But we need to know that such a difficult situation in which we are has not been in the twenty years of this independent Slovenia. Then it was also heard from my right that you say that the law is not in line with the balance and, worse still, that the law is not in line with the social partners, with the unions. I don't know if you're monitoring, you haven't been monitoring the media today; yes, today was a signed agreement with the social partners, with the unions! I'm surprised the unions could understand the situation we're in, but you from the opposition are very difficult or you don't really want to understand this situation. In fact, today I was trying to find some common ground for both the coalition and the opposition, and I think I found it. I think the opposition also realizes that something needs to be done in this situation. I think the opposition also realizes that austerity measures are still necessary. I think the opposition is also aware that these austerity measures have actually come so far as to encroach on the rights of citizens and citizens with these austerity measures. At the marathon sessions, especially at the meetings of the Finance Committee, we were interested in listening to the opposition's proposals. We expected to hear an alternative at these marathon sessions by the opposition, but the only alternative was to raise value added tax. This was all that was an alternative to this proposal for you. Believe me, it's not easy for us either. Nor is it easy for us to take these austerity measures. Nor do we welcome these austerity measures. Mr Kavtičnik, I was a schoolboy myself, I have lived with school for a long time, I will leave there, I will say the best period of my life, and I must say that together we made Slovenian school of quality, that Slovenian school was good, quality. I mean, colleague Kavtičnik, that we both know that there might be another reserve in that sense. And we are both very well aware that this austerity measure, which actually affects all areas, will, unfortunately, have to go to school to some extent. But I'm glad that somehow we've extracted from this package the lowering standards in education, I'm glad of it. I am also pleased that, with these austerity measures, we have managed to overcome the poorest. Previous attempts by the former government, which have already gone towards austerity measures, see, have not gone in a progressive direction. You read these austerity measures so that they do not tax or burden the rich. The most burdened are the rich and the poorest. I think that this is actually a savings law, this law on the balance of public finances, really unique and really brings what we need right now. I would also like to hear from the opposition – perhaps only one of the discussers – when he acknowledged to the Government that he hoped to address this difficult situation in which we were placed, and with these austerity measures he showed us seriously and responsibly how to come to a solution to the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. Let's get ready, please, mag. Ivan Vogrin. A replica? Here you go, Mr. Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Because I was summoned or appointed. Of course, I am aware that austerity measures must be implemented. But I said that I disagree with the procedure, with the way, with the speed, with the imprudentness, because what we receive on the tables — today, yesterday and at all these meetings we had — is impossible to examine and professionally and thoroughly put into some order and then see whether it is balanced or not, whether it is hurting people or not. So, we have had comments on this procedure and I have comments on this procedure, so I cannot accept this, because in such haste much damage can be done, many things can be overlooked, and this is what I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings to colleagues and representatives of the government! I must say that I have been closely following the debate in this Chamber over the past few hours, and I have a feeling that some do not want to understand the situation we are in. That surprises me. No one challenges anyone that the proposals they have are not those that might have driven this country out of the crisis sooner than those proposed by the current government and coalition. But in a way, things had to be done, and the government prepared these austerity measures. The following clearly states that other measures will also be taken on the revenue side of the budget. Interestingly, this is how we all like to say 'on the revenue side of the budget', but we have no real idea how to do it. Even at home, if he is a good master, he can invest in investments and there is more work for the whole family, but if there is no money, if he is in debt, then he simply cannot have these investments because he will go even deeper into the abyss of debt. You know, I'm even more surprised – I don't like to mention it, and I'm not gonna do it this time, so it's not a deal with the social partners. The agreement was made, and today it is a little strange to say in this hall that there is no such thing! It's like some people don't understand or don't want to understand. He spoke about it a little earlier, my fellow Prevc, I would not now know how many times I kept saying it, but given that I intended to expose it, of course I couldn't get past it. To talk about how much someone contributed to a category or population of citizens, it is a pleasant thing to say, because I think, despite being a small party and a small group of Members, we have done with coalition partners and also social partners as much as we have done in our power and in some ways helped this population to keep what it had in the past year or that it has kept most of what it had in the past year. This is where I mainly think of the older population of pensioners and pensioners. Of course, with all these arrangements within the coalition and the social partners, we have substantially amended the Public Finance Balance Act. This will have to be acknowledged by some of the opposition. We are also convinced that the time for discouragement must go by, that we have to convince ourselves that we can and can read this crisis ourselves. If we somehow do this to ourselves and to our citizens, of course, we will certainly succeed in the future. I don't think it's productive anymore that we're gonna be pointing fingers at who's to blame. These times are over. Now the only goal we have is to save the country from collapse; and we can only do this through joint efforts. It's not gonna work without a joint effort. The package that we have before us is the first phase of action, the Government must prepare a second package, which, in our view, must contain two types of measures; the first, which will actually mitigate the consequences of the measures that we are considering now, and the second, which will require acceleration from the rich or more will also be obtained from the richer population of our citizens and citizens. Today we are talking about the balance of finances, and we will have to talk further and also take measures that, in addition to financial balance, will have the most balanced impact on the consequences of all categories of the population. Therefore, we still have important work to do to balance the consequences of the proposed measures. As a coalition partner, DeSUS has actively participated in the design of all these measures, as I have already said. We would like to inform the inhabitants of our country that we will insist in our party that the front of activities on the income side needs to be opened. This is what we all like to talk about, that we are helping some of the categories that we have hurt in some way with these measures. Here I am thinking mainly of the younger population, the unemployed, the self-employed, and in the second phase of the measures, to return something to them. In addition to measures to increase inflows, it is necessary to establish a financial discipline throughout the payment chain, to reduce the power of the import lobby, which favours foreign importers from domestic producers all under the cover of the free market. To predict a consistent fight against the entrenching of corruption. If we succeed in this, then we can also expect the results that we want to produce with these measures and, of course, with those measures that we will take at the second stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mag. Ivan Vogrin has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u211	Nicely greeted! My five minutes pass quickly, so I need to concentrate, otherwise I'm gonna have to borrow from somewhere for a minute. I believe that: all recognition to the government, Mr Prevc said that the government did not receive any recognition. I believe that the government that proposes taking certain obtained ratings to take the money that individuals and institutions have been accustomed to, of course, deserves recognition, this is a courageous act. It's not easy! It is known in advance that people will be unhappy that institutions will be dissatisfied. Of course, it is also imperative to do so. The difference between the opposition and the position is only in who, in what way, otherwise, I, as an independent Member, or the position and opposition, are united in that money needs to be saved – not saved, but reduced because we do not create that much. I listened very carefully to the address of the Prime Minister Janez Janša and I have written some quotations, and I will try to explain my thoughts a little bit. Mr Janša quoted him as saying: "The political elites that brought the country into this state..." As such, of course, he meant a bad situation because we are improving it now. I ask: Who are these political elites? Aren't these political elites about the last 10 equal? Are we actually going to be a little sober and stop accusing ourselves, and the political elites will join forces and start saving? Because the causes of the crisis, I repeat this all the time, are not in Pahor's government and not in the Yangtze government from 2004-2008. They started about 2002, when we slowly lost the compass every year. Thus, Pahor's government, which was now the last, as the previous Janša government, I think, was my opinion, making mistakes. These mistakes need to be learned, addressed, addressed, and, of course, done differently. In fact, I quote Janez Janša, "without new jobs, the social function of the state cannot be strengthened". And not only will we not strengthen the social function of the state, we will reduce it! In fact, my calculations indicate that we will run out of half a billion in the autumn budget. Where we take them is a matter for the Minister of Finance. Why? Because before the German Embassy people are looking for visas to work abroad, and from my end of Slovenia more than 10,000 people go to Austria every day, creating new value and leaving profits there and working there. But we don't create jobs. So now, if we can change 44 laws in a few days and change them in a super law – I don't mind, we need to take action – but tomorrow or next week when this is adopted, we need to start amending the labour law in order to get the flexibility of the labour market, the law on economic societies, many laws, all those 44 laws need to be changed, made life and not restrictive. Look, I don't like to quote newspaper articles. Barroso called on the members to reduce the taxation of labour. Well, that's our key problem! We are now dealing with the easiest work, by how to create jobs and the added value we have not even started to do. I hope we get started. This is our key task. One more thing. We are no longer under the control of our own country. Four arguments are: gross social product is falling, companies are moving abroad, citizens are moving abroad and citizens are lowering the standard. When we turn this up, we have control of our own country again. That's the situation, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u212	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, let me prepare myself, please, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u213	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Colleagues and colleagues! Initially, I would like to stress just one thing: not the government or the coalition Members do not accept this package to balance finance with joy and enthusiasm, but we accept it for only one reason, because the crisis in Slovenia is so deep that we do not have any other alternatives. Slovenia has never had 2.3 billion euro deficits in history. This means that Slovenia spends 6.3 million euros a day more than it creates. Slovenia has never been in charge of EUR 17 billion in history. And Slovenia has never paid 700 euros a year. Maybe citizens and citizens don't mean that much. With 700 million interest, if they did not have to be paid, they could provide every pensioner with 2 additional pensions per year. We estimate that measures and this package are the best solution at a given time. At this point, because there's no other alternative. So far, only the economy has borne the burden of the financial and economic crisis. The economy has lost 60,000 jobs in the last three years. The public sector has further hired 9,000 people. What is important about this balance sheet and the public finances package? That those with the lowest income of these measures will not feel it! Some of you don't want to be aware of this or you don't understand the situation. This page did not say anything today about the revenue that the budget will receive from this package. This means: additional taxation of property over 1 million, additional taxation of capital gains, additional taxation on the basis of speculation on the change in agricultural land to habitable land, additional taxation on vessels and motor vehicles. These are the burdens to be borne by those with higher incomes. But I also understand, on the one hand, why you don't want to understand. Due to the fact that the National Assembly adopted three laws on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia about three weeks ago to promote the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and improve the business environment. However, the positive Slovenia obstructed the matter at that time. And these three laws will help raise GDP by 1 percent and reduce unemployment by 0.5 percentage points. It's about VAT. The point was: Germany also increased VAT by 3 percentage points, but it was forgotten that it did so in 2006 and that at the time Germany had 16% value added tax and that today it has 19% and is still one of the lowest in Europe. It means shut up a lot of things, and I think it's intentional. Why is John Janša’s country or government on the right track? As a result of the first step of assessing the health of public finances, in the second step, it has made an anchor so that the state will no longer be obliged to make a balance between income and expenditure, and in the third step, we expect the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, to adopt mainly laws that will ensure the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, additional investments that will open new cities. Only a competitive economy, new jobs will also ensure a fair social policy. And one more argument. The Prime Minister of the Government met on three official visits; Germany, our largest partner – world powers, China – world powers, Turkey – gazelle in the development and growth of GDP in the world. This means that these are things that will convince us that we are on the right track. Once again: Slovenia is a social state and Slovenia will remain a social state.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u214	Thank you very much. The next debater has the word. Branko Grimes. The next one to prepare is Mrs. Alenka Bikar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u215	Thank you. Good-bye to all of you! I must say that I am really glad to be able to speak here today, because the moment in which we live and in which this national assembly is operating today is remarkable. We are witnessing the emergence of a new development paradigm, a modern social consensus on responsibility, a consensus that what we are using today must not be put into account by the next generation, that public finances must be balanced and that this should enable a stable framework for the further sustainable development of the whole country, thereby strengthening its entrepreneurship and maintaining its sovereignty. Today it was very interesting to listen to a few discussions on how we would welcome the measures if we were based on the consensus of the social partners. I cannot help but feel that some have read the speeches they have written a few days ago, because just today the last decisive step has been taken, an agreement has been signed between the unions and between the government, and thus a consensus has been fully reached between the social partners as a fundamental point of agreement that can be agreed upon. Clearly, each of the participants would like more, it is always so in every negotiation, but everyone has proved to be extremely mature, because they have found a minimum common denominator, a consensus on the basis of which it is possible to adopt an act before us today. And here is the red thread of this amendment as well as all the following, which will follow it, because they are making an agreement between the social partners; exactly what some of you wanted in your words. At the same time, it is extremely interesting that the Views of Slovenia are taking place at the same time, where Mr Zoran Jankovic, who also President of Positive Slovenia, reiterated the statement he has already said several times before that Positive Slovenia will fully support all that will bring about an agreement between the social partners – that is, between the unions and the government – which puts it into a rather unusual light, you will admit the somewhat funny light of the debate of some colleagues from Positive Slovenia at this same meeting. I look forward to tomorrow, because then all the masks will end, the masks will fall and we will see how many actions follow the words. This is not often the case in Slovenian politics, but I say that when actions follow words, it is a quality that needs to be welcomed. Some of you were talking about the radicality of the proposed measures. It is also a reminder that this is a consensus, a minimum common denominator for all social partners, and that at the same time this reflects the awareness of the social partners that if this opportunity is wasted in an easy way, next time they will be far more radical, much more painful, much more unpleasant measures. So it's a matter of our shared responsibility. That is why I have stressed the importance of this moment when a new development paradigm of the modern social consensus on responsibility is emerging. What is really the most important thing right now? Why can we talk about paradigm? It is already possible to define at this moment the two acts that are before us and are in our hands: one is a law that will mean the application of austerity measures, and we are deciding on this at this moment. The next, which will take effect in the long term, in the same direction, is the Golden Rule or the record of the so-called Golden Rule on a Balanced Budget in the Slovenian Constitution. Both have the same effect – the short-term law by also applying the social consensus and, of course, the gold rule of the long-term – and give a clear signal to all entities at home and abroad that we are serious about saving and establishing a new development framework. It is therefore the adoption of both acts in the vital development interest of the State of Slovenia, all its inhabitants who want greater prosperity. This is just the opposite of what many have said in their debates. Why is this in the development interest? What exactly is the one that is currently the most stifling of Slovenian entrepreneurship? The fact that we are witnessing a bank upheaval, that capital is extremely difficult to reach for the state of Slovenia, if available, is very expensive. This is the result of poor ratings. The adoption of these austerity measures first, their application and then the writing of the Golden Rule into the Constitution will be a clear signal to all entities abroad that we are serious. This will certainly have a relatively fast and, above all, a long-term impact on improving credit ratings, thereby increasing the availability of money and, of course, the value of money and helping to relax the banking spasm that we witness in Slovenia. And this will give a new impetus to Slovenian entrepreneurship, which is to be trusted, which is worth helping, to help establish that framework to breathe with full lungs, and then to protect it with an appropriate functioning legal state, with greater financial discipline. This still awaits us, but the first condition is this step, which awaits us today or when we vote tomorrow, to first adopt a law on budget balance and then the next time we decide on the constitution, to write down a golden rule in the Constitution, to take that first and most urgent step to enable a new start to Slovenian entrepreneurship and thus a new impetus, a new development circle of the country of Slovenia. Slovenia deserves this, and its inhabitants and residents need this life. Slovenian entrepreneurship needs money. The decision will be in your hands tomorrow. I will myself vote for the realization of social dialogue, for the realization of the agreed, for the holding of a given word and for the provision of a new impetus to Slovenian entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Bikar has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u217	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll be short and saily. In Positive Slovenia, of course, we are very well aware of how urgent and inevitable all austerity measures are, but not in this way. Unfortunately, the government went about this the wrong way. The government behaves with all these measures as if it dislikes and disrespects its people. That's why I'm protesting! And I'm protesting the abolition of public education. And I'm protesting the abolition of the public service. I protest against disrespect for Slovenia, its citizens and its citizens. I protest because the government is saving where it's not supposed to: in young and young families. And I protest that the government is not doing well in Slovenia. That is why, of course, I will oppose the adoption of such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u218	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alenka Bratušek, get Mrs. Sonja Ramšak ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u219	Thank you so much for saying that. The general VAT rate in accordance with this Act and the transitional arrangements for its application shall be determined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia by 15 March of the calendar year in which the general VAT rate shall be increased. Dear colleagues, this is not a provision from our program! This immoral and I think it was mentioned that he was flattened, the tax you will raise with the government's conclusion. The next step can only be by amending the Law on Public Finances and also the rebalancing and budget of the government itself. I hope you've read, we've been listening to the story of how unhealthy the VAT raise is, and now even to the National Assembly you're taking the right, you're taking the right to the National Assembly to decide whether or not the VAT will rise! I don't know what's going on in the National Assembly! Not only are you against the elevator, not just that! You even give the government authority to do that, I can't find the words, the thing. Will the next step be to propose a constitutional amendment to abolish the National Assembly because I will not need it? And these are your provisions, the provisions of this law! And also in Article 1, so that there will be no problem with procedural ones, Article 1 mentions the VAT law. Read it, gentlemen. Read what you're doing to us. What are you doing to the Slovenian people?Oh, my God! You're deceiving us, you're deceiving people! They've been listening to you all day to the damage we do when we're just thinking about instead of using crazy austerity measures to combine revenue and expenditure, and you just write one paragraph of one article that the government will do if necessary. I don't know if this is in line with our legal order, because I think that some powers are still shared after all. I would be very pleased to hear the answer of the Minister of Finance, who is unfortunately not here, I hope he hears because I would like to ask him another question. If I understand correctly, we will be the savings that have been lost due to – please no longer use words, that these measures are in line with the unions. They're not in line with the unions! It's just an agreement not to go to the referendum. And that's the essential difference! We have said that if the measures are coordinated with the social partners, we will confirm them. Dear colleagues, I believe you know that's the difference. I wanted to ask the minister — since I was supposed to say that this part of the deficit would also cover funds for higher education — does this mean that he has broken this miraculous arrangement immediately? Because resources in higher education without changing standards will not be able to further reduce. In addition, I hope that you know that you are proposing the deletion of an article relating to pensions, that you should not support one amendment in the balance because you are taking money from an item dedicated to the pension institution, but today you have withdrawn it. So there's no more savings. And this 18 million 900 you want to take from this item, you just can't because you're going to leave a hole and it's going to be 200 million, which is already extra for these 20.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u220	Thank you very much. The first one prepared a mag for the replica. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. I'm sorry my friend said the replica. I'm sorry. You have procedural issues. Then you have a procedure, too, mag. Marco Pogačnik? [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] . You haven't been named, your name hasn't been used for sure. Now, Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, then it's your turn. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u221	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Allow me to begin with a procedural proposal, and I will proceed with the subject raised by my colleague Bratušek in front of me. In the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia was observed and indignantly we found that the Government wanted to – and this was already written in Article 1 – to actually take the authority to change the amount of value added tax beyond the will of the National Assembly, outside the public. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is our assessment of extremely dangerous work and can even indicate unconstitutionalness. Therefore, Madam President, I propose that, in accordance with paragraph 5 of Article 66 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the meeting be suspended or that you invite the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service to give an oral opinion on the dilemma which I or we have raised in Positive Slovenia. Another fact that I would like to draw attention to in the context of the procedural proposal is that we are absolutely aware that perhaps someone could consider and compare the arrangements currently in place in the field of raising excise duties, which are exclusively within the power of the Government, but I must warn you that these are two completely separate matters. In fact, excise duty is the duty of the State to correct excise duties. As you know, they change weekly, and value added tax is an extremely important financial category that cannot be changed by the Government simply by a decision. It can only be changed and only within the framework of the law. In accordance with the principle of the division of power in our country, the National Assembly is solely competent to adopt and amend laws. The government is the one that can propose, it can also propose height, but it is still the National Assembly, according to our assessment, who has exclusive competence to adopt and confirm amendments to laws. As we have already said, I ask you to call the Legal and Legislative Service to define yourself to this dilemma that we have highlighted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u222	Thank you very much. I will take your procedural proposal into account in accordance with Article 66, paragraph 5. I will suspend the session for 10 minutes so that, as you said, we can get an oral opinion or get what they will advise me. Mag. Grimes, would you like some more procedural? You'll tell. Otherwise, I'll interrupt the session in 10 minutes. Here you go, Master Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u223	If you allow me, this time I would like to refer the procedural proposal to you, namely to take into account the current legal practice and the existing acts governing our work in the National Assembly in a consistent manner. They don't have the criteria for replicating whether or not you address someone by name and content, so to speak, ambiguity of arguments. A concrete example: the colleague said that no consensus had been reached on all the measures, and I was saying the opposite: that a consensus had been reached on a minimum common denominator that would allow the referendum not to take place in practice now in order to save valuable time and money, because Slovenian entrepreneurship needs money as soon as possible. I hope at least there's a consensus on this between us.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u224	Thank you very much, respected Master Branko or Bran – I don't know how you like it; I see Branko officially – Grims, I seriously adhere to the rules of the game, rules of procedure, work. I didn’t realize that anything would hurt you — whatever it was called, or that it would violate anything or not give you a replica. I'm adjourning the session in 10 minutes. We'll continue at 9:40, and then you'll have this chance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u225	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with our 13th meeting, which was an extraordinary one, and among the applicants there was still a wish for a replica. He asked the mag for a replica. Marco Pogačnik, then mag. Andrej Šircelj, and then I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Janez Šuštersič, and to Mr. Strlett, Head of Law and Law. First of all, the replica mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u226	Madam President, thank you for your word. It's a replica of a colleague of Bratsek's. I appreciate Mrs Bratušek very much, and I have noticed that 100% has also won a politically populist speech – "fits what suits me". I would just like to mention that both the Government and the members of the coalition have said that VAT is not the most appropriate measure, but that we have always said that this can be an extreme measure. And also in this balanced package where it is inside, you forgot that this is only for 2014; conditionally, in the event that the deficit will not exceed 3%.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Procedurally. Just a little while longer, first the replica is still mags. Andrej Shircelj, then immediately procedural. Here you go, mag. Shircelj, then you will procedurally Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u228	Thank you very much. I'm giving up the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Procedural Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u230	The chairman, which some of them have reported to the replica, so please don't wait until the end to find out solemnly that they have abused the replica, but let's just look at the rules of procedure and not let one here explain what a replica is and what it is not. It is also appropriate to react to this, because otherwise I will consider that this rules of procedure are no longer in force. So much for one speech on the Rules of Procedure and knowledge of the Rules of Procedure. Please! It's not going anywhere anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u231	Thank you very much. I publicly state here that there is nothing left in the future when I interrupt this meeting. Breaking up until I break up, and then we move on. Thank you for your comment and for all those who have taught me and are willing to help me. Now let's get on with it. The Minister of Finance, Dr. Janez Šuštersič, has the floor, then the Head of the Legal and Legal Service. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u232	Nicely greeted! Thank you for that interesting question. I will be very happy to explain how we have thought about this article. This is what I can finally start with the EU Treaty, the Treaty on the Management of Fiscal Policy, a popular fiscal pact that has already been ratified by the National Assembly. Among other things, it says something, I will not literally quote, just after the memory, in that countries are also obliged to think about automatic repair mechanisms in case they exceed the deficit allowed. It is said that an automatic mechanism is something that triggers itself without having to take any additional, such as a legal act or anything like that. Let me remind you that we have been introducing something similar to this for a long time in our laws on the implementation of the budget. I think for at least eight, nine years, it's a constant practice of these laws. However, in terms of economic theory, these provisions are called automatic stabilisers — automatic self-repair mechanisms may be slightly better. It is, for example, provisions in terms of if this is necessary for the implementation of the budget, for the achievement of the target deficit and so on, for example, for the government itself, for example, to reduce the linear amount of spending rights on all items and so on. It is said that this logic has already been built in here. It is said that this thinking is not foreign to us, nor in this country, that we can incorporate into the law mechanisms which, under certain conditions, trigger themselves and interfere with the area of public finances. We also have other cases where the government has the legal authority to change certain taxes, of course to some extent prescribed, by its own decision. Mrs Bratuškova herself mentioned the case of excise duties, where this range, in which the government can change it itself, is limited. At the same time, when it is limited, it is the only limit that the government has. The Government may, on a proposal from the Minister of Finance, for example, determine excise duties on petrol entirely by its own discretion and is not bound by any instructions from the National Assembly, nor by any legal conditions. We can decide, as has been the practice in this country for a long time, to mitigate the fluctuations in oil prices, so that we can try to influence inflation, we can simply fill the budget or we can try to be competitive. So these are two cases where, in my opinion, the government has even more room for self-managing in the areas of public finances, revenues, taxes or expenditure on the basis of some legal powers. What we have proposed here with this amendment or a new article is much more restrictive, in my view, from the point of view of the space left by this article to the government. In my opinion, as I read this article, this article is very exact or very exact in determining what the government must or must do in these two respects. For the first time, it has to happen, this is actually a self-repairing mechanism. If we do not amend this law, there is no other way to avoid this increase in value added tax if the conditions laid down in this Article arise. At the same time, I think it is sufficiently clear, sufficiently precise, how much VAT is increased. This is said to be determined when, under what conditions. This is – let me read point 2 or point 1. If the government budget deficit for 2013 – let me stress this – is due next year, or for 2014 it will exceed 3% of the gross domestic product. What is a gross domestic product is clear, its scope is determined by the Statistical Office; what is 3% is probably also clear. So the condition, I think, is perfectly precise when comes, under which conditions this automatic value added tax increase takes place, which is the role of the automatic compensatory mechanism of public finances. By how much it increases and is also specified; it is increased by enough to provide additional revenue for the budget to cover this surplus deficit. The extent to which the deficit is pledged shall be determined by the final accounts of the budget for the previous year. The amount of the capital increase in the value added tax is a simple accounting operation that can be calculated, in my view, with a sufficient degree of precision, to be determined by a large amount of efficiency, to the extent that this value added tax rate has to be increased in order to achieve approximately such a financial impact as the deficit has been exceeded. All the Government will then do is calculate this and determine how much this VAT rate needs to be increased. However, in order to increase and what this calculation must be, but it is perfectly determined by this Article, it is said that the National Assembly, as the legislator of this government, instructs it to do so and, of course, also the power to calculate it. To make matters even less controversial, this is a temporary measure in force in the year that this condition is met. However, this is not a permanent change in the value added tax rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Lord God Strle Head of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the word is yours. I'd like to ask that on a procedural proposal, mags. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, legally bound to give us an oral opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u234	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The question concerned the compatibility of the regulation with the Constitution in this part, where the amendment provided for the power of the Government to determine the tax rate. The legislative and legal service has not specifically highlighted the power of the Government to determine the rate of tax, given that such legal powers are not new to the Government in the field of taxation. As Mr Minister has already said, the Law on excise duties, for example, already authorizes the Government to reduce or increase excise duty on energy and electricity or, for example, excise duty on alcohol and alcoholic beverages. For example, the Government’s comparable power to modify the tax burden was already exercised in the taxation of the Transport Tax Act, paragraph 77 of which provided that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia could reduce or increase the rate of turnover of certain oil derivatives to 50% in order to prevent and remedy disturbances on the market or economy. With regard to compliance with this constitutional provision, which states that the State by law prescribes taxes, we consider that this amendment, the so-called legal regime, already provides for a possible range. However, the Legislative and Legal Service – my colleague has already pointed out on the Committee that such a solution, which would rather empower the Government, is unclear in the part which the factors are that determine this increase within a possible range. In our view, this would fully remove any doubts about the constitutionality of any provision, although I must say that the constitutional provision is very general and it is difficult here to assess whether this obligation to provide for a tax by law relates to all elements of the tax and is, of course, not possible — given the prior determination of these criteria, which I have mentioned — this power to give to the Government. However, I must also point out that such an authorised provision, which already exists in the legal order, has not yet been subject to an assessment from the point of view of the establishment. There are no solid elements here for us to be able to say decisively that this is constitutional or unconstitutional. However, as it is said, these factors, which would determine which factors are the ones that determine the increase in the range, would indeed eliminate this ambiguity and the possible unconstitutionality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mag. Cousin, I saw you want a replica because you raised your hand. [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. Then we continue the debate. Thank you very much, Mr. Strle, for your answer. We are moving on to the debate, as Mrs Sonja Ramšak has the floor, please prepare Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, if possible, as we are concluding the meeting at 10 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u236	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all ministers, government teams, Members and Members of Parliament! Today we are witnessing quite a few things to the obvious how this government and this coalition are incompetent, how we know nothing, and we have heard many times that we are not present in this hall. A few minutes ago also Members of Parliament and Members of Positive Slovenia were not present, and perhaps this is also the reason why you did not take the views given to you on your tables in your discussions. In fact, I'm going to take my colleague's words from the Finance Committee: "We're here to work, not to sleep." Although the president has already said once that we should not use this. However, with the evidence that they were flying to the government and the proposed measures, you were actually deceiving the public, because the amendments you received on your bench put many of your things in a different dimension, not to say a lie. Let me continue my debate. Many times in your debates were mentioned, by the Positive Slovenia and the opposition, that the European Union does not require such drastic measures in one year. Of course not, and it has already been said many times by the Government and the Minister of Finance as well as the coalition members that Slovenia committed itself in 2009 to reducing the country's deficit below 3% of the social gross product by 2013. If Mr Pahor's previous government had done so, of course, today we would not have had the balance of public finances on our hands, and Slovenia would be in a completely different situation than it is. And why is it important to balance public consumption? It is important because we are currently in charge of something that we can currently use, but we have not created it. In the last three years, the public sector has thus spent 20% more than it has created. This means that the government deficit has increased to 6.4% of the social gross product, which means that every year we spent 2 billion more than we created. For this reason, it is essential that the consumption of the public sector is framed into a framework that is realistic. But the real thing is what we create, and we can use it. We have heard many times in the debates that we will spend almost 700 million euros per year this year, instead of spending them on development, education and to increase the welfare of citizens, we will spend them on interest. Only for interest this year will we pay as much as has been said to be able to pay all pensioners 2 additional pensions, or we will pay scholarships to all students and students for this money for two years. We have also heard many times today that we are putting an end to the social state, public health, and I do not know what else. These are prophetic-demago statements about the dismantling and abolition of the social state, which are expected but far from the truth. They are rhetoric used by the opposition and thus part of the professional public in order to block the government in its efforts to get the country out of the crisis. What we really want to end is the abolition of a wasteful, inefficient and criminal state, and by no means a social state. With these measures, the Government does not actually take anything from anyone, but there is no money in society to continue to pay for some superstandard services. Perhaps in the future, when we have better financial results, we can, of course, go back to the situation four or three years ago. It must be recognized that this law does not bring either great winners or great losers. It's an evolution in the field of expenditure. It is not just that anyone wants to defeat someone, but that consumption adjusts to the real state. If we do not act, this means that soon there will be no social state for anyone else. Slovenia, as has been highlighted several times, is a social state and cannot be a social institution. Let me conclude by saying that I can agree with those who say that if the government and the coalition give in and withdraw the proposed law, then Slovenia has no help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-10-SDZ6-Izredna-13.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Since it's only a minute till 10 p.m. It's over, I apologize and interrupt the 13th session. [[...]] Good night and good bye tomorrow until 9:00 in the morning.
