ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, welcome! I begin the 3rd regular meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57(2) of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and the following Members: Tamara Vont, mag. Truda Cinderella, Mr. Jakob Preseknik, Mr. Janez Vasle and Dr. Göncz László. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and the Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to all other items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 3rd regular meeting of the National Assembly. You have received the draft agenda on 7 May 2012 by reference to the sitting. We will decide on the proposal in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of a single agenda item, nor have I received any proposals for enlargement. We will therefore vote on the agenda as you received by reference. Before we vote, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We will vote on the agenda for the third session. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 69 votes against 1. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I'm guessing the agenda is set. At this point, I am adjourning the meeting, which we will continue with the parliamentary questions to the Prime Minister at 3 p.m. precisely.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u2	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our adjourned session. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. I salute the Prime Minister, the Minister, the Minister. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 32 questions sent to me within the deadline of business. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of the agreement of the leaders of the parliamentary groups and in accordance with Article 244(2) and Article 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the question of a ruling coalition member will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. Prime Minister, Minister, ministers have five minutes to respond. On the question of whether a question is posed to more ministers, two or more, both or all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask additional questions. The explanation of the request to supplement the reply shall be explained by the Member in two minutes, the President of the Government or the Minister, the Minister shall have three minutes to complete the reply. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting of the National Assembly on the response of the President of the Government or the Minister, as decided by the State Assembly without discussion. This will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within thirty days. A Member who has asked a question that has not been answered may insist on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. You have also received an overview of the questions that have not been answered. On this agenda item, the following ministers apologized for international obligations: Dr. Janez Šuštersič, Minister for Finance, Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Žiga Turk, Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sports, Mr. Franz Bogovic, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, and Mr Aleš Hojs, Minister for Defence. Mr. Minister Hoys from 17.20 to 18.30. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. He will be asked questions by Mr Matevž Frangež, Social Democrats, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, Positive Slovenia, Mr Roman Jakič, Positive Slovenia and Mr Richard Braniselj, National List. The first is to put the question of the Member of Parliament on the table, Mr Matvež Frangež. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u3	Dear and respectable Mr. Prime Minister! We all agree on the need for fiscal consolidation. Your government and the government majority have decided to quickly consolidate public finances by reducing the structural deficit by two percentage points in 2012. However, the experience of some other countries has warned economists, including some Nobel laureates, that such a route is dangerous and that, when necessary, it also poses a risk of longer-term stagnation and economic decline, an increase in unemployment and a further decline in the economy. The Spanish economy has similar problems as Slovenia. The over-indebtedness of both the economy and households is also extremely vulnerable to their financial sector. Spain carried out the same large-scale fiscal consolidation in 2011, i.e. savings to the same extent as Slovenia plans in 2012. In Spain, they are already faced with data indicating a decline in economic activity and the risk that Spain is already in the so-called debt-saving spiral. How will you prevent Slovenia from falling into a savings and debt spiral because of the measures taken by your government, which means that we will reduce economic growth as a result of the measures taken, the European Commission's assessment is that it is only this year that economic activity is falling by 1.4% of GDP, and, in order to reduce economic activity, the further decline in public finances and thus very likely to face the radical need to reduce public expenditure in the perspective? This is particularly worrying because we are faced with the reduction of all those elements that generate the growth of our gross domestic product, namely, domestic consumption and investment. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u4	Mr Janez Janša, Prime Minister of the Government, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u5	Thank you so much for asking. While the question is technically correct and understandable, the logic behind this question is not understandable. Because it's perfectly clear that the sooner you start reducing your debts, the sooner you start avoiding the danger of getting into a debt spiral. The more you are in charge when you try to cut this situation, the more radical you have to take. Any time we asked that question in previous years, the answer could be easier. And the fact that we have done these tasks very quickly is also a relative claim. In my opinion, we have taken on this task very late, and that is why we must do it more quickly. I don't think it's a housewife who has to put together the beginning and the end of the month in this country who wouldn't understand that logic. Nor is there an economist in this country, a craftsman, an entrepreneur who would not understand this logic. It would be very good if this logic were slowly beginning to be understood by those who decide or decide on very important things and on substantially more fateful issues, such as the household budget or a company. You are a member of the National Assembly and Members of the National Assembly. These measures, which were adopted by your colleagues who voted in favour of the Public Finance Balance Act last Friday, have reduced the problem by about half. But we'll still have to make amends because it's impossible to save him overnight. But it will be about half smaller and, thank God, there was so much sanity and coalition that we accepted it. Otherwise, we would certainly be in a Spanish situation within six months or within one year, where there is a big question in individual measures, whether they will still be arrested in time or not. For our hope we've accepted them in time. But there is no one who could claim to be an automatic solution to everything we want. Nor does it hold that it is just so-called savings. Otherwise, it would be good to say good-bye to that word because we are not saving. We can save when we have something and we don't spend it, and we don't have that money. And we don't save, just a little less, or half less, than we did in the previous years. Nor does it argue that nothing has been done at this time to increase income and increase economic growth. We are now discussing politics here, three days ago you could hear the director or CEO of one of the most successful companies in this part of Europe, the director of Krka, who said that the Slovenian environment is the most favourable investment since the measures taken by the National Assembly in April. This is Mr Kolarič's statement on the occasion of the start of a major investment in New City. And these evaluations need to be heard in some way. The measures we have taken to improve the tax environment in particular, to invest in Slovenia and to invest have been taken before we have adopted the savings package. Unfortunately, about half of those present in this Chamber have almost ignored this, but not those who benefit from it in the first phase who can now invest and calculate that this will yield certain results and that this will also increase the revenue of the state budget. In the coming months, the government will also propose additional measures in this regard, as well as in this Public Finance Balance Act, about a third of the revenue-enhancing measures are meant to strengthen the revenue side. However, this has also been more or less overlooked in the debate. But this is just the beginning of the road and there will be a lot of efforts to get us out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u6	Thank you. Request for complete response. Mr. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u7	Dear Prime Minister, I want you to understand that we all want your government to succeed on this path. The measures mentioned have in fact worsened the public financial picture. Tax reliefs will result in a decrease of income by 148 million euros. And bet only on these measures, thinking that they will solve the problems of the Slovenian economy and that they will increase economic activity as a result, it is a illusion. In doing so, you ignore the key problem of the Slovenian economy, and this is its over-indebtedness. What measures can the Slovenian economy and the Slovenian public expect from your government in this segment, so how to deal with the high indebtedness of the Slovenian economy, which is one of the highest in the euro area? This is due to the high growth in gross external debt caused between 2005 and 2008, so I believe that this data is very well known to you. The case of a country that has been saving for a long time, which is not doing very well for it, is Portugal. Portugal tries to achieve similar effects in the long run of fiscal consolidation, but fails. Unemployment is rising, gross domestic product is declining, the economy's competitiveness is falling. All of this shows that the selected models chosen by the Slovenian government do not necessarily lead to success. You refer to one of the distinguished representatives of the Slovenian economy. It would also be good for you to listen to Nobel Prize winners for the economy, who say that no other countries have been able to reduce social transfers, reduce investment, reduce wages from the crisis. This is an important lesson that should also be taken into account in the Slovenian economic and public financial reality. What will you really do to ensure growth and development and new jobs in Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u8	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u9	Dear Member, Portugal is an example of a country that has started saving too late. And there are some such countries in the European Union. I hope that Slovenia is not among them and that these measures, which were adopted last Friday, have taken us to the other side in a timely manner or at least took a step in this direction. Therefore, these comparisons are overpriced. As far as economic indebtedness is concerned, this is a problem. Absolutely. This is not just a question of credit crunch, which harms those companies that can rent credit, but cannot do so because the banking sector does not work as it should. This is one part of the problem that we will be dealing with in the coming months too late, and that is what we must say. That part of the economy that can't rent new loans because it's already in debt, that's another problem. There's a need for restructuring here. Part of this has been made by the crisis, much more than we would like, and the result is bankruptcy, forced settlement and all that we have been monitoring for the past three years and we are still monitoring some of it. However, here is the recovery of the economy and the improvement of the conditions for normal business, for which we are trying and taking measures, something that can substantially ease and facilitate this problem. If you have so much investment relief in your nose, it's about as with a farmer who in the spring has about a thousand kilograms of wheat and now decides not to send it all into the mill, get flour and then eat it, but, say, 100 kilograms of it, he'll sow a new crop in just one year. These investment incentives are something like that. We want the economy to invest, we have encouraged them with these incentives for further investment and we hope that something will grow out of it and something will usually grow. These are measures that have worked many times and have worked in countries where they started to save in time. Two such cases are close to us, namely Austria and Germany. There they began to save in time, did not wait as they did in Portugal or Slovenia, and today they have good results.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u10	Procedural proposal. Mr. Frangez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u11	Dear Prime Minister, I agree that we are late in implementing the policy of fiscal consolidation. Here I am showing you a graph about the movement of earnings on Slovenian government bonds. Here's the beginning of 2011. Due to the referendum blocking of structural reforms led by pension reform, the profits have grown radically, including due to the political crisis that helped to co-create your party. Following the formation of your government, confidence in the market has returned in the short term, but trust appears to be insufficient, and profits are rising again due to the danger posed by your government's savings packages. And markets also estimate that this will not be enough. I also agree with the fact that we are poisoning the seed for wanting to do so next year. So much better for the Social Democrats is the incomprehensible fact that your government has radically reduced its R & D resources as part of the savings packages. These are the seeds from which grain will grow for future generations of Slovenian development. Respected and respected! In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I request the National Assembly to hold a debate on the Prime Minister's response. Last week, he made it very clear that there are conceptual differences between us regarding the resolution of the current Slovenian economic and financial crisis, and even more so about what Slovenia we really want and what measures we want to take to make our way to the desired Slovenia. Slovenia's higher economic growth, high levels of employment and pro-pulsive development and high competitiveness in the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u12	Comrade Frangež, we will decide on your proposal tomorrow in the context of the vote. The next issue of the opposition will be raised by Mr Jani Möderndorfer to the Prime Minister of the Government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u13	The House of Honor, the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Government, everyone else is present! There are quite a few interesting days behind us, and the question that I am asking you, President of the Government, is focused on the work that you are actually leading. This is a cabinet where compared to the previous Prime Minister of the Government and you have a huge wage gap. Why does this matter matter? It is particularly important from the point of view of employment in public administration, given that we have heard that there is an agreement with the unions behind us and that it is agreed that 8% of the employees in public administration should be reduced. And if I compare, in the Cabinet of the President of the Government, the previous cabinet, there were 28 employees, and today, according to information provided by the Office of Information on the issue of journalists, 18 employees, who take on a significantly higher amount of wages than on average covered 28. In particular, if I exclude two employed secretaries of state who receive compensation. If I eliminate this, in this case, if we're talking about numbers, 63% of the wage increase. Not to mention the numbers. According to the Cabinet of the President of the Government of 3rd. 2. When there were €70 000 546, they increased to €115,000 025, which paid off the April salary, according to the month of May, 4. 5. And here's the difference. If I subtract these two secretaries of state, exactly 50% of the increase. Given that we will be reducing in the public administration because there will be a need to retire, these were your statements in the media, on Info TV, and it is also appropriate to arrange other measures, I am interested in: Don't you think it's right in the cabinet of the Prime Minister that we should be exemplary? That's the question. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u14	The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u15	In accordance with the policy of reorganisation, which aims to rationalise, at the beginning of the mandate we discontinued certain services, redistributed certain functions, things and the functioning of the executive branch at the summit simplified. From this point of view, certain functions will also be strengthened in my office in the future, and some government and other services will continue to be abolished because things are doubling. If you're only looking at wage indices or the number of employees in my office, you won't be able to make any conclusions about rationalisation. See the volume of wages throughout the sector, throughout the state administration and in the completed segments, and on this basis you will be able to make the correct conclusions at the end of the year regarding the seriousness of the savings.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u16	A request for a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u17	Don't make it look like we didn't get along. It is clear to me that every government that alone with the Government Act sets out how it will organise its government, and especially the cabinet of the Prime Minister, is once again very clear that the President will organise his own work as he thinks it is best and will arrange it accordingly. However, in the public administration we have very clear jobs and also what salaries are. Therefore, if we go a little bit more precisely now, it represents an increase of €45 000 in additional costs per month, amounting to about €540 000 per year, which amounts to €2 million per year in the entire mandate. Here I think that in times of crisis, no matter how we reorganise work, the job is ultimately evaluated according to education and is qualified by some specific index. No matter how we organize our work in the state administration, there are still so many and so many employees in the cabinet. In the Human Resources Plan, your service has made it very clear that you intend to take advantage of full employment, says up to 28. And if I add this together, it's going to be significantly more than the previous government actually used up. And from that point of view, it would be an example to show that this is shrinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u18	Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u19	I can see that we really don't get along. That's exactly what we're doing. If we think that one person in another place or another institution, in this case my cabinet, can do what three of them have done in different government departments and secretariats, and so on, then we will do this place and we will end others. We heard comments on this at the very beginning when we stopped some government services, in June there will be a second phase of reorganisation at this level and many more of these institutions will be deleted from the lists and there will be a further phase of rationalisation. Some functions, where things can be compensated, are strengthened, because this is the only way that work can go on normally. And that. Jobs in the cabinets are for a certain period of time, as you know, for the duration of the mandate, and this does not present any problems then to the next government, much easier for each then to decide for himself how to organise the work. You're looking for a problem here where it's not, the truth is the other way around. At the end of this term, let us hope that if we implement our plans, Slovenia will once again have some relatively lean executive power that will function normally. Now ten, twenty years have just accumulated institutions to institutions, many tasks have been carried out at different ends, and we have had bodies that have done each other's work. Only with this segment that we are talking about now will we not solve the matter, but it is certainly what must be done in the beginning, because without serious guidance such things cannot be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u20	Thank you. A third issue by the opposition. Mr. Roman Jakich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u21	Thank you for your word. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! You probably expected me to ask you today how you would travel to extended May Day vacations in the middle of the financial crisis and the fateful negotiations with the unions, but of course I will not. Even with regard to the cost of returning on a private plane, no, but since you have involved the child in the whole story yourself, it is up to you and your conscience to explain the reasons why the only thing I really hope for is that your child is all right. But it is not all right with children with special needs, for example, who, according to your rebalance and famous and controversial law on public finances, will no longer have the right choice of medical devices and performers for their treatment and inclusion in life. Dr. Bogomir Kovac says, quote, "A sharp fiscal consolidation has the foundations of a post-war social state." A number of studies by internationally recognised economic institutes in France, Germany and Austria also show that the reduction in public consumption did not encourage consumers to spend more and increase economic growth. So it's the opposite. Reducing public consumption is an economic recession or even depression only deepens. I hope that you and your colleagues, who have been so many in the cabinet, have read for example the Bloomberg business portal, which notes in the recent Slovenian contribution that Slovenia is similar to Spain – and this goes with what my colleague Frangež asked – are trapped in the trap of austerity measures that stifle economic growth and thus make it difficult to stabilise the debt burden. European Commissioner Olli Rehn is also talking about the creation of a European Investment Pact, which in some ways is the recognition of Brussels that saving was only a mistake. That's why I'm asking, the president: What was the purpose of your official visit to Germany just before our debate on austerity legislation and immediately after the second round of elections in France, where the German-French train was wiped out? And the second question: How do you explain the common statement to the media that Germany and Slovenia have similar views on the key problems related to the financial crisis, given that, of course, most in Europe, it is also more general that the current German-French model of sharp fiscal consolidation and the defence of the euro does not give economic or political results after two years – except for the rise of left and right extremism? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u22	I give my word to the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr. Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u23	Thank you for asking. I think it is perfectly normal for the President of a government that has started a mandate to visit the key external trade or economic partner that Germany is. If there was another government, it would probably be the first such visit to Antarctica. But given that we are a serious government, we want to act in line with the real situation. Germany is our most important economic partner, 20% of our exports go to Germany. In addition, Germany is currently the engine of the European economy. And now, I'm going to say, very simplistic and flat-rate comparisons, and the claims and mockery of the German-French train are far behind. Maybe it was real about two years ago. Germany and France are not in the same economic situation. While Germany has made some adjustments in time, not only within the current coalition's mandate, but also before, France has done less. And the French-German train, or this link, is more of a concept that defines a possible view or a similar view of the future of the European Union, the euro area and the structural changes that need to be made here, and is significantly less of a concept that would balance the economic and other situation of both countries. Germany and France are in a very different economic situation. While Germany is undoubtedly a healthy economy, which is also progressing in times of crisis and thus mitigating the overall impact of the crisis throughout the European Union and in the euro area, France is somewhere not so bad, but partly like Slovenia, by being more indebted on the one hand and on the other hand having a better demographic picture, which does not represent such pressure on pension expenditure. In France, however, most of these measures are implemented by Slovenia. From this point of view, we can talk more about the Slovenian-French train than about the German-French train. This is a major problem for the situation as it is in France, but a situation such as Slovenia. This is a major problem both for us, for the Slovenian Parliament and for the Slovenian government, as well as for the future President of France and the French government. And since this is Europe's second largest economy, it is also indirectly the problem of the entire European Union. The illusions that it is possible to help faster growth and sustainable development with some more looser debt rules, you know, these illusions can be cultivated mainly where they are less indebted. Where they are less indebted, they may be obliged to invest, invest, and then increase their income on this account. Where they're over 60% or where they're just outside the border like we are, they don't have that luxury or they don't have that luxury. From this point of view, there are various theoretical debates and arguments about where Europe will go, what will be the future paradigms in terms of financing for development, a very scholastic debate. Different countries in Europe are in different situations, some are in debt at three times lower interest rates than others. They have such and different structural problems and Slovenia needs to know exactly where it is and also be aware of its weight. From this point of view, it seems to me that this talk about the German-French train or any other train is merely a distraction from the key problems. Our problem is Slovenian trains.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u24	Here you go, Mr. Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u25	Thank you for your word. Let me first express my protest against such inappropriate behaviour by the Prime Minister. This is probably the result of this – you said about Antarctica – that you read again in the newspaper today, that you were the second in fact, and that you did not win these elections here in this country, and that instead you should be the one who won these elections, that is, Mr Jankovic. And that is why I hope you will apologize for the inappropriate answer to that question. I was very respectful of you with the questions I had. If I may, I'll just ask you one more time. Mr Janša is reducing everything on the German-French train, but if I looked at Europe for a little bit, I would find that the savings you are defending, and especially the EPP, are said to be conservatives in Europe, that this saving was not said by the Netherlands, that, of course, Greece also said so, and not least, if I have correctly observed, the technical government of the Italian Prime Minister Monti also spoke against this saving. And I don't understand why you don't understand that Slovenia is one of the rare ones who promises loyalty to the German chancellor in hard insistence on purely strict austerity policy. Most of the others, however, are slowly aware, after yesterday's local elections in Germany, that this policy is wrong and calls for the promotion of economic growth. I do not understand why you, as Prime Minister and Government, do not lean on the proposals of the profession and the Positive Slovenia, which says that there is a need to have another model, a model of investment, the elimination of the deficit on the medium term, and new jobs. It's a real plant for growth and employment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u26	The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u27	Now I see that this National Assembly is once again returning some folklore from 20 years ago when we discussed whether Slovenian independence is worth it or not when Colonel JLA was the same opinion as Mr Jakič, when we had a lot of fun over it, even though the times were serious. Look, if you're making international comparisons, then you need to know the data. The Netherlands did not reject the austerity measures. Indeed, austerity measures were rejected by one of the coalition parties of the Dutch government and therefore the coalition collapsed. But even after the government was voted non-confidential, the main government party voted with the help of opposition parties because the Netherlands has a normal opposition that is aware of what is good for the country and its future. As far as austerity measures are concerned. In Portugal and Spain, the first packages, about the weight we adopted last week, were adopted by the socialist government and the socialist majority. This has nothing to do with any political division in Europe. The socialist government and the socialist majority in Spain and Portugal have adopted the first austerity measures. With the help of conservative opposition, the Golden Rule was incorporated into the Spanish Constitution by the Socialist government years ago. This is not about any political division in Europe, it is simply about whether those who have scissors and canvas in hand, and when it comes to constitutional decisions, the role of the opposition and its responsibility is the same as that of the government opposition, it understands enough to react in a timely manner. That's what it's all about. As far as Germany is concerned, Germany's GDP is EUR 3 000 500 billion, Mr. Jakic, our 35 billion. He's been staggering for three years. It is said that we are about 1% of this GDP. The German company with which we talked about investing in Slovenia has annual revenues greater than our GDP. Economic growth is normal there because they have implemented these measures in time, including austerity measures. So it's not that the good one who didn't save is good in Europe, in this case, the one who saved in time.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u28	Mr. Jakich, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u29	Thank you for your word. Before I make a procedural proposal. Discreditation, disqualification has been the same one leading you for 20 years. Just as you didn't trust people in Demos to go to the referendum, you are now challenging the referendum initiatives, and I personally voted for the independence and you can look at the picture in front of the SDS room – it's so beautiful where I vote for. But we're going back. Slovenian economist Dr. Mencinger said that government deficits are a normal component of the market economy. Like inflation and unemployment. They come from fluctuation in economic activities. When the economy is shrinking, public revenues are also shrinking and the need for social transfers is increasing. When the economy blooms, it's the other way around. The current large deficit and public debt have also not caused the crisis, as a result. With the rise in deficits and public debt, countries have mainly rescued banks and prevented economic and social catastrophes. Although I feel that this tightening of the belt in Slovenia saves us some German banks. Therefore, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that a general discussion be held on the response of the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u30	This proposal will be decided tomorrow. And the question to the Prime Minister of the ruling coalition. Mr. Richard Braniselj from the Civil Gazette will put it up.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u31	Dear Prime Minister, President of the Colleague, Colleagues, Ministerial Assembly! Last months have passed in the wake of long-standing negotiations by the Slovenian Government with trade unions. The result is a signed agreement on the resolution of sentences and the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act, which will save €500 million this year and €70050 million next year. We are aware that this is the first important step towards getting out of the crisis, but it is not enough for Slovenia to come out of the crisis. We have limited the outflows of the budget to a certain extent through the law, although the Government has already incorporated a number of measures for the revenue side of the budget into the Public Finance Balance Act itself, but there will be a lot more to be done on the revenue side. Dear President! Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia expect us to take measures and reforms also in other areas that would save Slovenia from the current financial crisis and lead to progress. I'm asking you: What are these measures and reforms proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u32	The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u33	Thank you so much for asking. You are asking essentially what the government has done to harmonise the new social agreement. At the same time as this Law on Public Finance Balance and Budget Rebalance was being prepared, we have been able to coordinate with the social partners within the Economic and Social Council the starting points for a new social agreement. We have also offered these starting points in the form of a partnership for a development exit from the crisis to the opposition. Unfortunately, the opposition refused to participate in this project. Given the complexity of the steps ahead, we want to achieve the highest possible degree of consensus with the social partners, especially when it comes to certain structural adjustments that Slovenia needs in order to be a more competitive economy in order to achieve greater economic growth on this basis, greater employment and therefore greater revenue when it comes to the budget, which many are keenly interested in. In these starting points for a new social agreement, the government has offered concrete steps to improve the business environment, eliminate credit crunches and change our labour market towards greater flexibility on the one hand and, on the other hand, towards greater security. We would take some urgent steps towards better organisation of the health system and also adapt our pension system to the medium-term, if possible, long-term demographic pictures. Here, in some areas, social dialogue has already served, if not with some approximations of compromises, but at least with a clear picture, so we expect to reach, say, parliamentary vacations, but our goal was there by 20 June, until this social agreement is signed. The technical deadline is, as I said, June 20th, even if it all goes there until the time when Parliament will go on parliamentary holidays, it will still be within this time frame of reality. Here, unlike many debates on the so-called pension reform in recent years, as well as in recent weeks, we consider that the focus is mainly on those measures that improve the competitive conditions of the Slovenian economy. And within that, there is probably a key reform of the labour market. Today, this is one of the differences between competitive and non-competitive economic environments in Europe. Spain, for example, when so much is mentioned in the National Assembly today, has such problems mainly because of this point. And today you have cases where the Spanish plant Seat, which employs 10,000 people, is simply moving production plants to the Czech Republic because there is a more flexible labour market. But Spanish, because he's not reformed yet, he's not. Germany, for example, faced this problem and before these Schroeder labour market reforms, unemployment was record-breaking there. Today, after the reforms carried out, unemployment in Germany is record-breaking despite the crisis. And that's the prime factorization. We expect the highest efforts to be made in this part of the negotiations and, of course, the flexibility of all the social partners will be required. Before we reach an agreement, Slovenia will start to become a more competitive environment before we can attract more foreign investment, and before that, Slovenian entrepreneurs will invest more. More will be invested and more jobs will be created, more jobs will be created, more will be employed, more will be employed, more will be inflows into all state treasury.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u34	We have concluded our parliamentary questions with the President of the Government. I thank Mr. Janša for his answers. We turn to questions from Members of Parliament and Members to ministers and ministers. First of all, Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič, Minister of Finance, Dr Janez Šuštersič, will ask the question, which he apologized for today's meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Government! Even if the Minister of Finance is not among us today, I will ask the question of a Member of Parliament and I hope that by the end of the week I will have an answer in writing so that they will not wait until the last day, 30 days. My question is very important for the development of the country, especially at the time of the global economic and financial crisis, which has particularly affected our country, and especially now when we are talking about balancing public finances and overlooking the word 'balanced', which means that we must work both on the expenditure side and on the revenue side, especially on the revenue side, if we want to improve the situation in our country. The National Assembly shall be held on 3. 5. 2010 passed the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia, which was also published in the Official Journal on 14 May 2010, and we were able to adopt all citizens and citizens, but something else happened, or nothing happened, which should have happened in accordance with this adopted law. The law provides that State capital investments shall be managed on the basis of a capital investment management strategy defining the development orientations of the Republic of Slovenia as shareholders and shareholders of companies, and the strategic objectives of the Republic of Slovenia as owners of capital companies or investments, the means of achieving the objectives set out in sectoral policies, and the identification of the strategic investments and shares of the Republic of Slovenia in the individual company required to safeguard the strategic objectives of the Republic of Slovenia. The strategy is adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government and the proposal for a strategy is prepared by the Agency for the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of sectoral policies and submitted to the Government after coordination with the ministries responsible for the preparation of sectoral policies. The practice of implementing the law has shown some difficulties mainly in adopting the strategic documents on the basis of which it operates, namely capital investment management strategies. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia of 4. 3. It extended the deadline for preparation and adoption in 2011. The competent ministries were therefore obliged to forward sectoral policies to the Agency by 30 April 2011 with a view to preparing a proposal for a strategy based on sectoral policies received and intervention for adoption by the Government. The latter proposal for a strategy to be submitted to the National Assembly by 30 June 2011 at the latest. The preparation of the strategy exceeded the said 30-day deadline, which is to say until 30 June. The government only took note of the working version of the management strategy [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u36	Time's up. Thank you. You will receive a written reply, given that the minister is absent or excused today. Mr Mirko Brulc, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Erjavac, will ask the next question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u37	Your Honors are here! I ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs the following question: Why did the Government decide to appoint Dr. Dimitri Ruple to the post of Consulate General on the fact that Dr. Rupel had recently turned 66 years of age and would only be able to lead a bad two years, since the Law on Foreign Affairs provides in Article 27 that the Head of the Diplomatic Representation or Consulate may carry out work abroad until the age of 68, which usually lasts for 4 years? How can you explain the fact that a person has been appointed to the position who is likely to meet at least the minimum conditions for retirement and the Government, in the context of austerity measures, wishes to immediately retire those who meet these minimum conditions? The Minister's public statement, I quote, "that the early recall of the Consul General in Trieste should not be of a political nature", does not convince me, given the more than 200 replaced personnel on the arrival of the new government for precisely political reasons. I ask the Minister for Oral Response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u38	Good. So I'll put the question to the next meeting of the National Assembly if you want an oral answer. The next question will be raised by Mr Tomaž Lisec, Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u39	Thank you. Honorable representatives of the government! Question for the Minister of the Interior. In recent years, however, the issue of how to ensure a successful prosecution of crime in all its forms is likely to be even more intense in recent months. The prosecution, which has already been defined as a separate entity of the State in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, has an important role to play in this prosecution of crime, and its precise regulation is enshrined in the State Prosecutor's Office Act. Since 1 April this year, the State Prosecutor's Office has been subject to amendments to the Government Act and the State Administration Act under the auspices of the Ministry of the Interior, i.e. under your departmental ministry. I myself agree with those who say that this is about the changes you probably want to improve the system with, but we all believe that only by transferring the competences of this improvement are not self-evident. We all agree that something needs to be changed, but it is likely that the way of work and the internal organisation of the work of the prosecution play an important role. It is clear that, in practice, the cooperation of the police, the prosecution and the courts so far has not produced the best results. Therefore, a special Directorate has also been set up within your Ministry, which will take care of the field of prosecution. Dear Minister! With regard to the transfer of powers in relation to the State Prosecutor's Office from the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration to your Ministry, there is a strong public opinion on the functioning of this Directorate. So on this occasion, I ask you: What are the tasks of this Directorate of Public Prosecutions? How's this director's staffing? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u40	Minister Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u41	Thank you so much for asking. It also seems important to me that we tell the general public some of the things that have been happening from 1 February to today on this subject. And that's why I'm gonna take this opportunity. You know that there was a lot of talk at the beginning about what the problems would be, that it was to avoid in Europe and so on. We also have, I mean, a constitutional initiative to assess the constitutionality of this law. But the final result is what I'm going to present below. There were quite a few problems in the meantime. I think they've appeared rather maliciously by certain circles, which have shown in the media how the prosecution will go under the protection of the police. Of course, it's not like that, and it can't be like that. This is known by all those who know the legislation in the field of prosecution, as do those who know the legislation in the field of police and prosecution. There was something else that was significant. There has been a lot of writing in the media, how this Directorate will lead someone who is the Deputy Director-General of the Police and so on, which, I'll say, evil languages, otherwise it's hard to say, wanted to show that they've been right since February. But the real situation is as follows. We managed to put together the D.A.'s office. I specifically insisted that this was a Directorate for the basic reason that I could even do it on the outside, and I'll say, let's level with the police. There is a special department in the Ministry dealing with police control and direction issues. Therefore, it seemed important to me that an equivalent service should be created to give equal weight to the service that would deal with the prosecution, and a Directorate of Public Prosecutions was created. This department has two sectors. We had a lot of offers or a lot of requests, requests, if you like, people who would like to work in this department. Some were outside, some were from the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration. There have been several requests from the police as well. Reality is the next one today. 12 jobs have been systemised in the Public Prosecutor's Office. At this point, we have seven full-time jobs. This move was, on my part, designed to try to complete the Directorate in accordance with the tasks. No one today has the right idea of what the amount of tasks is, because in the previous ministry, this is the judiciary, it was done by different people who also dealt with the courts. The staff composition is as follows: 6 officials with university education, graduated lawyers with judicial exams. All these people have worked on the former Ministry of Justice, and all these people have already dealt with the Ministry of Justice's tasks to the prosecution's organization. So it's just their transmission. One, of course, is a business secretary. The Director of Directorate or Acting Director of Directorate at this time comes from the Ministry of Justice. In time, it will be obvious that the number of tasks will increase. We're also counting on some assigned prosecutor at the time that's coming. But like I said, gradually. So what are the main tasks of this Directorate? The Directorate is mainly involved in preparing or participating in the preparation of regulations on the organisation and operation of state prosecutions, the status of powers of state prosecutors, the situation of rights and obligations of state prosecutors, and, of course, direct and direct supervision of the administration of matters of the State Prosecutor's Office. It also deals with supervisory complaints about the work of the State Prosecutor's Office regarding the protection of the right to a trial without undue delay and with a number of other tasks that I could count, but I am running out of time. However, I will say so, performing all those tasks performed by the Ministry of Justice in the previous term or so far, but they have been carried out by various services within this Ministry and the situation has been such that they have worked for both the courts and the prosecution, today they are only working for the prosecution and are doing all the other tasks prescribed in the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u42	Mr. Fox, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u43	Thank you, Minister, for a comprehensive answer, but allow me to ask you a supplementary question in this area, which I believe would have important consequences for the effective work of the prosecution, the Directorate and I believe for the work of the court and the police. In view of the fact that the Attorney General should have prepared a policy proposal for prosecution by January, this is not done, I ask you: Can and how can this delay affect the work of you as a minister or ministry, as well as the work of state prosecutors? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u44	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u45	Thank you very much for the opportunity to list these tasks and also answer your supplementary question. The Directorate also deals with all the tender documents necessary for the appointment of prosecutors, their scholarships and scholarship policies, recognitions, permanent education related to the State Prosecutor's Council, and also carries out some other tasks relating to payers and the issuance of, say, official cards. The essence of your complementary question is in the state prosecutor's policy. We talked a lot about the state-of-the-art policy adopted today by the Attorney-General in this Chamber last year. You know, there was a lot of opposition from the professional circles, too, to the position of Dr. Belet, who was extremely opposed to it. But the reality today is this: the policy of prosecution is to prepare the Attorney General. The law says it must do so one month after the appointment, after the establishment of the State Prosecutor's Council. This one was set up 13. 12. 2012. It is said that at the time that I was coming to the Ministry of the Interior or at the time that this prosecutor's part was coming to us, this policy should already be adopted. I'm 8. 5. The prosecutor asked him to explain how far this document is, where it is, when it can be expected to come. The answer is somehow such that it is in the making and in some form. It seems to me that this is quite a bit of a time, so we're actually six months late, but let's also leave this time to the Attorney General to do his job. I count on this to be done as soon as possible, because this document has a lot more to do with what's going to happen in the future. But let me take this minute of time to say a few more words. You'll get a change or a new amendment to the Attorney General's Office's Act on the table, I think, next month. It is only a technical correction, so we replaced the words "Ministry of Justice" with the words "Ministry of Internal Affairs", so it is only a transfer of competence. But the situation on the ground is increasingly convincing, and particularly the discussions with the prosecutors, and I have had the opportunity to talk to them today, and I can say this in public that we will have to go into the State Prosecutor's Office Act in the fall a little deeper. But I can assure you today that this will not be about what the media will write or what the opposition will say, about trying to rescue Mr Fischer or something like that. No, it will be to strengthen the role that the prosecution and the Attorney General must have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u46	Thank you. Mrs Alenka Pavlič will ask the Minister of Infrastructure and Space Mr Zvonet Černač a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister of Infrastructure and Space. In recent years, we have witnessed the pressures of Austria, which required us to prevent cargo traffic through the Karavan tunnel. Due to the limited regime, there were indescribable congestions that affected both freight transport and migration of residents, especially daily, i.e. employees who work in Austria and are transported through the tunnel daily. We also know that the tourist season is at the door, and the Karavan tunnel is the world's shortest or shortest route between Europe and the Balkans, and the nearest and cheapest for all logistics and transporters. Given that we are in a difficult time when fuel is being irritable at monthly level and when we reduce and rationalise consumption in all areas, closure or restriction would be a severe blow for our logistics and other companies. Austria is also forecasting measures this summer, partly or fully restricting freight traffic through Karavanke during the heavy-duty tourist season. Since the caravan is part of the tunnel, I am also interested in: What plans do you have with the development of this area, which after the removal of the customs work becomes an area of spirits and do you intend to transfer it to the congregation of Jesenice? And that. I read in today's daily newspaper that you'll be renovating toll houses on Karavanka's plateau for 170,000 euros. That's why I want to know: Why are you actually going to do this because it's not even permanent? Is it possible that the selected company from Brežice, which will carry out its work, has any connection with the Minister of Labour, Mr Viszak? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u48	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u49	Thank you so much for asking. With regard to the latter or the latter, this is not exactly a question for the Minister of Infrastructure and Space. Dars is the addressee and one to respond to why he has recently decided to make extremely irrational and unreasonable moves. One of them was also the one mentioned in connection with the renovation of these houses by €170,000, as I was, like you, familiar with the media. The caravan tunnel must be one of the important sites on this 10th European important corridor. Both the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Austria are aware of the importance of this transition. All the solutions related to traffic flow and traffic safety in this tunnel, which was built in 1991, are trying to resolve in agreement. However, it is one of the points where it has not been possible to reach this agreement so far, and it has not been possible to achieve it, as you have rightly established, in recent years. This is a matter of interest after the closure of traffic for trucks weighing more than seven tonnes and a half at Saturdays between 5 a.m. and 12 a.m. between 23 June and 1 September. All other security-related solutions in this area, and with this increased security, also ensure normal flow, were agreed and coordinated by individuals operating within the Interstate Group in March of this year. It remained an open point, which is most important for the interests of the Slovenian economy and the Slovenian transport industry, and this is the point that the traffic for freight vehicles, I stress for freight vehicles, weighing more than seven tonnes and a half, closed completely on Saturdays between 5 a.m. and 12 p.m. On our side, of course, we cannot agree. In this regard, I have also forwarded our proposal to this colleague in charge of the transport of the Republic of Austria in April, a concrete proposal which, in our view, would properly address this issue and not compromise the safety of the people in the tunnel. We're still waiting for that response. I hope that, within the meaning of this proposal, we will also agree on this because, on the one hand, it would enable the interests of our economy, in particular the carriers, which this door represents a significant short journey to our country during this period, and on the other hand, if the position or proposal we have proposed were adopted, the safety of vehicles or passengers in the tunnel would not be compromised. In some ways, we are all aware of the importance of this issue together, including the fact that this issue is largely related to some of the events that have taken place in the tunnels, particularly in Austria and Switzerland in recent years, and also to this end the fear that something similar would not have happened in this area. We are confident that the regime that we have proposed and which we hope will also be enforced will allow on the one hand the safety of passengers and, on the other hand, the normal flow of goods vehicles over seven and a half tonnes; also between 23 June and 1 September this year, between 5 a.m. and 12 a.m. In the long run, Karavanka’s infrastructure or tunnel is designed to be upgraded or updated with another tunnel tube. The plans in this direction are being prepared and they are cooperating at this point in the country. It is an extremely demanding and large project that is expected to take place in this way in order to be completed somewhere in 2019 and 2020. In our view, it is also one of the projects that will have an important impact on the flow of this extremely important 10th corridor, and I hope that the pressure on these restrictions will be reduced when the project is more specifically agreed. With regard to the rest, I think that all those areas, not only in this particular case, in other cases, which have lost the purpose and content and activities they had in the past, are wise to make use of such or other logistics platforms. If this interest is to prove itself and if this interest is to be concrete, then we can also think in this direction, which has been raised in your question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u50	Mrs. Alenka Pavlič, a request to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I have listened to you carefully, but I would like your even more concrete response to how you plan to act if the proposed measure comes to fruition. So you said you told your colleagues to take a look. I want to know: What, in particular, is the direction in which you are thinking, how will you act, how can you help these carriers and can our carriers count on the reimbursement of the costs they would have in case of longer routes due to the announced measures? And the question is, since you mentioned the construction of another pipe, I'm curious: When do you plan on starting construction? You said you were going to finish, and I was wondering when the work would start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u52	Thank you. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u53	Thank you very much for this additional question. I am sure that we will succeed in these discussions and that this complete prison will not come to pass. We have suggested to our colleagues from the Austrian side that this security be ensured in such a way that, in the event of an increase in traffic, we occasionally descend through a tunnel of trucks weighing more than seven and a half tonnes. I think this would ensure security on the one hand and, on the other hand, allow for normal accuracy. For the Republic of Slovenia and for its economic interests, no mandatory route across the Austrian state level is acceptable, and we believe that there is no need for that. The refinement of the caravan tunnel project has not yet been made, so that I can provide you with an answer to this question by the middle of this year when the national programme for the development of transport infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia is completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u54	Yes, please, Mrs Pavlič, a proposal for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u55	I would like, and I would like to ask, given that the logistics problem seems to me to be important for the whole of Slovenia, also for the development of tourism and the economy, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 on this subject, a general debate on measures relating to the closure of the caravan tunnel during the summer tourist season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u56	Good. We'll decide on your proposal tomorrow. The next question will be raised by Mrs Renata Brunskole, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I am asking the following oral question and I also want an oral answer at the next meeting. I ask Minister of Agriculture and the Environment of Mr Franz Bogovic about the progress of the project to build a network of regional waste management centres in Slovenia: How many regional waste management centres in Slovenia are the competent Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment planning to implement them? Environmental protection, nature protection and compliance with European environmental standards and standards are also one of the most important guidelines for action and development for the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, more attention is also shown in the field of the economy to production and to activities that are in step with environmental, environmental guidelines. In addition to the issue of the number of planned centres in Slovenia, and in particular in connection with the possibility of using European cohesion funds, I am particularly interested in the time-frame for the implementation of such a project in the South-East Slovenia area, namely CEROOD 2nd phase, Dolenjska Waste Management Centre, White Landscape and Posavje. There are two problems. On the one hand, Leskovec did not obtain an environmental permit and the environmental inspector prohibited the operation of a landfill for non-hazardous waste by a decision of 23 April 2012. CEROD has now been granted temporary permission to dispose of waste. It is necessary to put a cleaning plant on the landfill, which is now under construction and the draining waters are now being driven to Novo Mesto. The problem is the signing of Annex 4 to the project co-financing contract. In fact, the Posavik municipalities of Krško, Brežice and Sevnica have comments on the CEROD project and the method of co-financing and require the examination of technical solutions and the financial eligibility of the project. There is a fear that the project, and the conclusion of last year, would fall. In the second half of the year, a decision had already been issued on the possibility of using the European funds granted, and in this way, since the Posavican municipalities disagreed and would take care of themselves, they might then dispose of waste elsewhere, perhaps against Styria, Celje or elsewhere, and the problems of the White Land and the Dolenjska will remain. Let me also say that already in February 2012 there is tender documentation at the former Ministry of the Environment and an area for the selection of an NBO operator and is still under review. I request the oral response of Minister Bogovic at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u58	Yeah, I'll put the question in the next session. The next question will be posed by the Magus. Ms Katarina Hočevar, Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u59	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! My question is addressed to the Minister of Health, Mr Gantar, concerning the eHealth project. In the Civil Gazette, we are advocates of simple and thin public administrations, including information solutions and the principle that public institutions should not require citizens to do anything they already know or can do themselves. In this regard, one of the major public service information projects was the eHealth project launched in 2008. I would like to know, Mr. Secretary-General: How does the project, which is the timeline, show whether it will be completed in 2015, as originally envisaged? This is mainly because the latest report on the status and progress of the project can be traced online and is already a year old. In this regard, however, health services for specialisation reviews would be more specifically affected. I find it unacceptable to send our citizens from door to door in this age of information technology. That's why we're interested: When will a procedure be in place that will be citizen-friendly and allow information solutions to be placed directly on the specialist waiting list with the doctor? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u60	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u61	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for asking. The eHealth project is one of the more important projects and, above all, it is now so important, given that for known reasons they are limited in some way to other investments and that this project is part of funding by the European Community. The eHealth sector was established last year. The result is already some of the public calls that have been published at this time. The one belonging to an e-procurement subgroup is scheduled for publication this month. This would mean that, according to the plan, it would be expected to be a choice for operators to implement this service in August and then in 2013, of course, in the hope that this will actually turn out. But this is just one of the projects of a large whole, where there is actually a lot of work to be done. There was something misplaced, given that more was done on machine equipment than on content. It says there are quite a few coders missing and so on from various areas. By hoping that e-procurement as well as e-reception in the second year will be said in the first half or at least in the second year, it will actually go away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u62	Next question, mag. Majda Potrat, a colleague of Potara, will ask the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u63	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, I expect the competent minister to address me orally at the next meeting. My question comes from the debate on the budget rebalancing, the cutting of funds in my ministry, where it was noted that sport remained in the full shadow of all other cuts. The Minister spoke about one third of the funds being taken away from culture, knowing how much science, higher education and education. In doing so, he kept quiet that the sport would be one third of his resources. In fact, in 2011, the balance sheet allocated 33.3 million dollars to sport, the 2012 budget allocated 34.6 million, and the 2012 balance made 20.7 million. But it's not the only thing that's been upsetting the sports public lately. The story with the withdrawal contracts for trainers has barely settled, and there has been a story about the discharge of individual officials either by the professional council for sport or by other events in this regard. The last thing before us, however, is the proposal for a law amending the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia. If I take away all that could be read in the media, where there were a lot of instigations and lies and denials, then, of course, I must ask the minister: What measures does the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport intend to implement the commitment under the coalition agreement to increase the influence of the civil sport public in sport management? In fact, in the hands of one person, there will be a good time to decide on the financial resources. The Director of the Sports Directorate, without a footnote v. d., is also the Director of the Sport Foundation. If you look at how the question of putting the members of the Sports Foundation is resolved, then you see where the interest is actually moving. In fact, I wonder if, after all the measures envisaged, it can really be said that this is not the case. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u64	Good. We will include your question at the next meeting of the National Assembly in order to give you an oral answer. And the next question will be asked by a colleague of mags. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, Minister of Defence Aleš Hojs.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u65	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Minister! I will start with a coalition treaty, where the Government, inter alia, has written down that it will work towards decentralisation of the country, for quality, effective and fair governance with the country, on the principle that the state and all public sector institutions serve as a service to citizens and the economy and do not represent a barrier to them. Finally, the Coalition Treaty also states that the standard of individual regions will not be reduced. Why did I start the coalition contract? Because I believe that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a decision a few months ago that individual ministries and their services should prepare a proposal for reorganisation within individual ministries in the sense of rationalisation of state authorities by 30 June 2012. This was also discussed today by the President of the Government in his replies to the parliamentary questions, with a very cynical inspiration, he said that many institutions would be deleted from the list by the end of June this year. I fear that in this way they will lose particular regions and people living in remote regions at the expense of employment in the cabinet of the Prime Minister. But since he's not here, I'm sorry. It would probably be a more appropriate question to ask him. To go to a specific area. I will continue with this government reorganisation, which in particular has its first effects in the Sava region. During the night, the employees of the Public Payments Board were informed that their exposure would no longer exist. Practically overnight. A similar story is expected to take place within social work centres. One part of the responsibility is to join administrative units, the other part of the competence is to be taken away from individual, trebwellian, Zagorian and horticultural units, and to join the Centre for Social Work of Domžale. Among other things, the settlement from Zasavje also received a fire inspection. And now to what touches you in particular, Minister of Defense. The next government shooting service is intended to be the Management for Protection and Rescue or, in particular, the Regional Information Centre for Trbovlje at 112. I believe that both you and I and all Members and Members of the National Assembly know what it means to abolish the Regional Stations of the Directorate of Protection and Rescue, or so-called Information Centres, especially in such regions, which are extremely specific due to various factors, and perhaps later. In short, I ask you a question, and I want a concrete answer: Are you thinking of abolishing a regional information centre based in the Rippers?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u66	Mr. Minister Hoitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u67	Dear Member, honourable Members! I'll start with a coalition contract, too. In the second part of the coalition agreement, the coalition has no doubt committed itself to reorganising the functioning or functioning of regional information centres in an effort to save and to make the state administration more flexible. She wrote this in a spirit, wishing that all these centres operating in the country today, both in the field of police, defence, Darsa, railway and many other centres, had made this organization more flexible and cost-effective. I could use some information. As you know, the Ministry of Defence lost more than 240 million euros in 2008 to date. Of course, all this loss cannot be at the expense of the Slovenian Army, but it also goes to the Office of Protection and Rescue. This year, this reduction was € 103 million and it is clear that there is also a need to save in the area of the Protection and Rescue Administration. This saving will not take place to the greatest extent at the expense of the skills or activities needed to maintain the centres and thus to assist people in the event of natural and other disasters, but this savings will certainly be done: for the first time, at the expense of those infrastructure projects that will be extended or will not be implemented in the coming years, and in the very review of how much and where any of the centres is being burdened. As you know, there are 13 of these information centres in Slovenia in the field of the Directorate for Protection and Rescue. Let me quickly list them: Brežice, Celje, Koper, Kranj, Ljubljana, Maribor, Murska Sobota, Novo mesto, Nova Gorica, Postojna, Ptuj, Slovenj Gradec and Trbovlje. I personally ordered that an analysis be prepared for all these centres to show how and how much of these centres are being burdened. I must say that today, on the basis of the first draft analysis, these centres appear to be burdened with a ratio of 1:5. Unfortunately, I must say that the very centre in the Rippers is one of those who are least burdened. I must say, however, that I am pleased that the coalition has not accepted the opposition's amendments or that I have to correct myself, not the opposition, that it has not accepted the positive Slovenia amendments, which has reduced the Ministry's amounts by a further 140 million euros. In this case, they would probably not only talk about reducing these centres or generally all the centres in Slovenia, but also about not being able to provide salaries, not only in the administration, not in the military. The analysis I was talking about is currently under way. All the activities of the centre are intact at this time, it is said that the same information centre as any other facilities at this centre and only on the basis of the analysis carried out will I be able to answer your question about whether or not the centre will close. If it is one of the centres that are least burdened and if it is one of the centres with which we can transfer the case to the other centres, this will certainly affect this centre in the Rippers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u68	Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš will request a follow-up.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Minister, first of all, I'll tell you not to joke. You mentioned the amendments of Positive Slovenia to the budget rebalancing. You weren't at your mother's working body meeting, at least I didn't see you. It is, however, the fact that the opposition Members had to prepare the only amendments in this country as is the case – if we wanted to give it somewhere, we had to take it somewhere. And, by the way, we didn't take any regional information centers. When you mentioned the analysis that was done, and the fact that there was supposed to be an ambush between the least burdened, I ask you at the same time: Do you realize the possible consequences if we move the saviour exposure to Ljubljana or Celje? Both places are from Trbovlje if I take the center of Zasavje, about 60 kilometers away, with extremely bad highway connections, Minister. Another fact: if, for example, the centre were to merge with Ljubljana or move to Ljubljana – floods in 2010 in Trbovje and Ljubljana. A concrete example: There were more than 600 calls in Trbów in a few hours, in Ljubljana more than a thousand. Tell me how a service that would be united into one could respond effectively and efficiently, given the fact that I mentioned earlier, that certain specifics should be taken into account in Zasavje, and the fact that Zasavje is among the most populated regions! I ask you once again, given that I believe that decisions are made overnight in this government and that it will be very quickly here on 30 June, I believe you have the first analyses and also the guidelines: Will the Trbovlje Regional Information Centre be hit by a fate similar to that of the Public Payments Authority a few days ago?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u70	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u71	Dear Member, let me be clear once again. I did not mention that you proposed to take the Authority for Protection and Rescue, but you suggested that an additional 140 million euros be taken in the budget in the area of General Staff, according to the Slovenian Armed Forces. If these amendments had been adopted, there would have been no other way out than to be taken by the Protection and Rescue Board. As far as your question is concerned, let me reiterate that the regional centre does not only cover information centres. The regional centres include information centres, all logistical support, paramedics who are there, equipment and everything else. You'll probably agree that in modern communication society it doesn't really matter where someone sits and picks up the phone. Probably someone can pick up the phone in Ljubljana or Celje if we have rescuers or logistical support at the location of Trbovlje. And once again, I answer you that the final analysis of the state of burden of individual regional centres is not complete at this time. I have said that the Regional Centre in Trublja is one less burdened in the country, according to preliminary results, and I can only tell you that the final decision to close this, other or any decision will be taken in accordance with a professional decision. And I don't believe this decision will be taken before 30. 6. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u72	Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u73	I will also ask for a broader debate on the Minister's response at the forthcoming meeting of the National Assembly. Minister, I can't agree that there are so many important things that don't matter where someone picks up the phone. It's a specific environment, Minister. I believe the operator in Ljubljana doesn't know where Theresa is in the Rippers. In the event of an accident, it is important that the operator at the call center knows where to send emergency assistance. And that's where the minutes count. I am afraid that with too much ease, the whole government is taking such important measures — you call them rationalisation — in the field of such important services. Yeah, it's true, there's a tradition in the Trbovje Regional Information Centre. And a very well-organized aid network with many services, from voluntary units, firefighting society to health care. It's a very well-assembled operating system. I believe that you agree here that the Zasavska Regional Centre is one of those who has the highest appreciation for its functioning. By the way, there weren't any hospitals last year. And when you so much like to mention saving in these services, let me say that according to some estimates, moving the centre to Ljubljana with all the equipment costs €180,000. There are no short-term savings, in fact, the Minister, that Zasavje is losing another important state institution. I'm asking: Will it build a wall on the east and west sides, watering down the valley, making an artificial lake, and evicting people? I am afraid that these austerity measures will not, in fact, remain with these reorganisations of another. Once again, I would like to remind you of the cynical comments made by the Prime Minister at the meeting today: "Many institutions will be deleted from the list." Here, Minister, it's not just numbers. There are people behind these institutions! I think it makes sense for us to hold a debate and to hear about the fact that the Government would do well to present to us what is its plan to reorganise state services in individual regions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u74	We'll decide on your proposal tomorrow. It is now up to Mr Matjaž Zanoškar to ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! My question to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic, is about environmental degradation in the upper Mežiška valley. About 350 years old tradition of the exploitation of leaded ore in the Mežiška Valley. During this time, owners, both domestic and foreign, exchanged. Each owner exploited this rich ore, processed it in these places, and then went away with his earnings. In the valley of Mežiška, however, there remains a large ecological wound, which is evident in nature, in the natural environment and, of course, in the context of human health and living conditions in this environment. It seems good to us in Koroška that in 2007 the government recognized the Upper Mežíska Valley as a place to help with the rehabilitation of this degraded environment. At that time, a decision was adopted on aid and the rehabilitation of the upper Mežiščina valley, but this decision was not implemented in any way. We know that a government decree is not the most binding, it is an agreement, and that is why the proposed law on the adoption of measures to remedy the upper Mežiški valley was also proposed. This adoption has not taken place. Today, we know that, by decree, this dynamic of funding is very poor. About three years ago, the previous government saw a 50% drop in funds. The Health Care Institute of Ravna in Koroška, which monitors the environment and also human health, particularly in this most vulnerable population, such as children up to the age of 7, points out that the measures have been good to show good results. However, from this point forward, when we are somewhere in the middle of the road, the measures are not improving because there is a lack of resources. I would say to the Minister, but also to all of you, that the additional funds or funds for the rehabilitation of the upper Mezik Valley do not leave a higher standard, but rather present normal conditions for these people's lives in this environment. That is why I am addressing the following questions to the Minister. There is a delay in the implementation of the programme in providing funds. This will almost halve in 2012. I want to know: When and how will the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment provide these funds? Second of all, I want to know: What projects is he planning within the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment with these funds and when is the Ministry and Minister's view that land degradation in the Mežiška Valley will be completed? These are the questions to which I want the Minister's oral reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u76	We will also include your question in the next session to receive an oral answer. The next question will be asked by Mr Jerko Čehovin, the absent Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u77	Mr President, thank you for the floor. And a nice greeting to the Minister of Health! Unfortunately, my minister, to whom I am referring, is not here, but please allow me, in accordance with the business arrangements, to have him answer me orally at one of the next meetings. Today, as most of you probably did, I received an invitation in the mailbox. This invitation refers to the celebration of the 432-year-old Kobilarna Lipica; a venerable history, history, full of ups and downs. Some of these falls have also been experienced in Slovenia alone. Years ago, we were also pleased, at least according to the Government's decision to set up a public institution, Lipica, to regulate matters. Unfortunately, it does not appear from the Court of Auditors' report that the cases are as they should be. In fact, the Court of Auditors delivered an opinion in the audit on the effectiveness of the behaviour of Kobilarna Lipica and the Government at the establishment of Lipica Turizm, on the supervision of the use of public service funds from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and on the effectiveness of the behaviour of Kobilarna Lipica in the delimitation of revenues and expenditure between Kobilarna Lipica and Lipica Turizm. They found that the behaviour of Kobilar Lipica and the Government at the establishment of Lipica Turizm was ineffective. With the agreement of the Government in 2007, the Kobilierna Lipica established a company to carry out the economic activities of Lipica Turizm on the basis of the previous amendment of the law, without drawing up a strategic plan of the company and an appropriate economic and legal analysis. Leipzig Leipzig has not committed to Lipica Turizm to suppliers and claims on buyers arising from the implementation of the economic activity in Kobilana Lipica, even though this has been provided for in the transfer contract. It is also controversial to address the issue of control and management in Kobilana Lipica in Lipica tourism, as the fact that the Director, who is at the same time the Director of the Public Institution and its Supervisory Authority, is the Council of the Public Institute of Kobilna Lipica, constitutes a conflict of interest and, according to the Court of Auditors, poses many risks to the unjustified and unintended use of Kobilar Lipica funds for the benefit of Lipica Turizem. However, the Court of Auditors is of the opinion that, by dividing the revenue and expenditure between Kobilirna Lipica and Lipica Turizem, the event allowed Lipica Turizem to receive unwarranted funding. Dear Minister: What are your plans regarding respect for the corrective measures imposed by the Court of Auditors? What time period do you plan to settle the issues at issue? How do you plan to separate the position of guardian of the contract from membership in the world of Kobilarna Lipica? Are you planning to start with an appropriate amendment to the Kobalna Lipica Act? [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u78	An oral response. So it's going to be in the next session. Thank you very much. The following question is raised by Mr Franz Jurša, Minister for Infrastructure and Space of Mr Zvonet Črnač.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u79	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President, a nice welcome to the ministers present at today's session. In the previous term, I asked the Minister of Transport at the meetings of the National Assembly several times about the issue of increasing freight traffic on the route of Vuko Vas-Lutomer-Ormož and in the opposite direction. It is mainly for trucks that are in transit through the state of Slovenia, which somehow avoid this driving toll station Dragotinci and thus also toll payments and then via Ptuj, via Maribor again enter the motorway. This leads to an even worse state of the regional road, increases noise and reduces air quality significantly than it could be, while the quality of the living environment is significantly lower. This issue is particularly relevant for the area on the mentioned route of the Vučja Vas-Ljutomer-Ormoz. In fact, since trucks are actually involved in the traffic across toll station, Dars is in some way also losing funds to be cashed by trucks. Life on the mentioned route is truly difficult and dangerous for the inhabitants there, and it is becoming enough for humans to heed their warnings or to receive only empty promises. They also organized themselves in a civil initiative. If something does not change, all possible measures that civil society can take will also apply. That's what they called me at a meeting in my office today. The then minister has told me more than once, and I will say three times, which he has told me more than once, that after the adoption of the Law on Public Roads he will also adopt the rules. Of course, these deadlines have always been extended, the last deadline was until March of this year, and on this basis they would also limit traffic on this regional road for trucks in transit. Since these promises were nothing, and we still have no rules, I ask you, Mr. Secretary of Infrastructure and Space: When is this gonna happen?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u80	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u81	Thank you very much for that question. I have also looked at this chronology and it is true, as you say, that you have asked the question several times, last year on September 19th. The Roads Act provides that the Minister responsible for transport may, on individual national roads passing through or through settlements and parallel to which state roads of the same or better traffic and technical characteristics are carried out, impose prohibitions and restrictions on the use of a public road for freight vehicles whose maximum permissible mass exceeds seven and a half tonnes, except for the transport of these vehicles in local traffic, where necessary in order to increase the flow of traffic or the protection of the natural and residential environment. These measures are introduced in many sections of our country. There are no major problems where there is a parallel link to the modern highway network. Where such a substitute solution means a shift and an increase in mileage, there is, on the one hand, a conflict between the interests of the local environment, security in these sections, protection against noise, pollution and others, and the interests of the local economy, particularly the transport economy. In this particular section of the Vučja vas-Lutomer-Ormož, the analysis carried out last year showed that of all heavy goods vehicles, i.e. those exceeding this weight of 7 tonnes, there are approximately two thirds of those representing vehicles in local traffic and one third of those representing transit. And in this one-third, representing transit, about half of them are not related in one way or another to the local environment. This means a certain intervention in this decision in the interests of individual transport undertakings and also of the local economy, but this intervention, on the other hand, also needs to be weighed among the interests mentioned above, and this is between the interest on the one hand of maintaining infrastructure that is not suitable for heavy goods vehicles on the other hand and between the interests of the local population for which such regulation, such as is currently existing, is disruptive. So it is not a question of a rule that should be rewritten or re-created, in which case it is actually a matter of weighing between these interests and making a decision. I have decided that, despite the fact that this is not the only section where similar problems occur, I will try to introduce a trial period in the coming period. It will test whether the solution limiting freight transport in this area actually constitutes as much a disturbance for the local economy as is now the result of these numbers resulting from these studies, whether the actual solutions are different or whether the actual situation in this environment is different. In accordance with the Law on Roads and Under-Laws, which allow me to do so, I will try to limit the possibility of transporting goods vehicles weighing more than 7 tonnes and a half. This means that there is likely to be some disagreement and misunderstanding on the other hand, but I am sure that we will try to settle these matters in such a way that the interests of the local economy, particularly the carriers operating in this area, will also be satisfied.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u82	Mr Jurša demands that the answer be completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u83	Thank you so much for saying that. I would still ask you, Mr. Minister, to answer me: When is this gonna happen?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u84	Thank you very much. This will happen in the first half of this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u85	Mr Bevk alone will ask the Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! Hospital infections are the most common complications in hospital treatment. This is why the proportion of hospital infections is one of the most important indicators for the quality of the hospital. Hospital infections in Europe affect about 4.1 million patients per year. Hospital infections are also estimated to be responsible for 175 000 deaths each year due to the non-critical use of antibiotics in Europe. That hospital infections with MRSA are a major problem, I warned in the National Assembly about the Member State issue in 2001. Two years later, I said in a similar question that hospital infections in Slovenia caused the death of between 400 and 600 patients on an annual basis. Dr. Dusan Keber, then Minister of Health, did not object. In October 2001, 19 Slovenian hospitals conducted the first and so far the only national hospital infection study involving over 6,000 patients. The study showed 61.8% of MRSA prevalence in intensive units and approximately 30% to 40% in general hospitals. This data has placed us in a circle of troubled countries in Europe. Since the only national survey carried out so far, it has been well over 10 years, so it would be necessary to repeat it. In addition to hospitals, such research should for the first time include homes for pensioners who are increasingly becoming nursing hospitals. I ask Tomaž Gantar, Minister of Health: What is the state of management of hospital infections in Slovenian hospitals and pension homes? When will another national preventive hospital infection study be carried out? I thank the Minister, Mr Gantar, in advance for his reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u87	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u88	Thank you, too, for that question. The management of hospital infections is regulated systematically on the basis of the Act on Infectious Diseases adopted in 1995. Two other regulations were adopted here last year, which regulate this area. The basis for monitoring and control of these infections shall be accompanied by programmes to be prepared in health care by all natural and legal persons engaged in health care activities. These programmes must, however, be made up of a single methodology. This methodology is determined by the group of the Ministry of Health and the National Commission for the Management of Hospital Infections on the basis of European standards and all these criteria that must be. The rules also define who is specifically in charge of hospitals. In particular, every hospital must have a person responsible for this area by virtue of these sub-laws, as well as a Commission for the Management of Hospital Infections. It's happening. And this is where a number of parameters are monitored. For example, you mentioned MRSA, it's an infection with methicillin resistant to golden staph. And according to this data, after monitoring this data, Slovenia is very high within the European Community. I don't hope to say the exact place, but the data is good. Finally, a recent blood test was carried out in Slovenian hospitals within the European network and the result was, of course, good. In addition, the preliminary investigation was mentioned for the first time in 2001 and for the last time in last year at the end of last year. We do not yet have all the results available. It is estimated, however, that about 4.6% of patients in Slovenian hospitals should suffer from hospital infection, a number with which they should be relatively satisfied that they are not among the poor data and indicators. However, we will wait for a month or two to obtain the final data and see whether further measures are still necessary for this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u89	Request for supplement, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. In doing so, I would like to point out that more than 90% of MRSA cases are carried over the healthcare staff's deadlines. Therefore, prevention measures are relatively simple and cheap but must be consistent. It is a consistent disinfection of the hands of doctors and hospital staff and home for pensioners. Therefore, we must also be active as potential patients ourselves and to our doctors and staff to address a kind request in this sense: "Sorry, I do not want to get MRSA bacteria, so please disinfect your hands before you touch my wound." So we're gonna have to stand up for our own lives. Regardless of the overall savings, measures to prevent hospital infections, as said, are very simple and also cheap. I am glad that this second study was carried out, but unfortunately I have nowhere in the media to see that this has been done. I will wait a few months for all this data to be studied, and then I will take the opportunity to present this study in writing, or if you will do so yourself through a press conference. And I'm also curious because I raised a question earlier at home for the pensioners. I know it's not your department, but it's the health field of these people, too. That's why I'm asking: Do you plan a similar study in pension homes in the context of health policy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u91	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u92	I'm going to ask about similar research in pensioners' homes because I don't know. However, it is the National Commission for the Management of Hospital Infections, which also participates in the preparation of programmes to prevent hospital infections in homes for older citizens. Maybe that's it. Thanks to my previous colleagues of ministers and probably many others, Slovenia was in Europe, immediately for Switzerland, another country that introduced this contamination of the deadlines. Therefore, the results in the area of infection to methicillin resistant staphiloscope are actually very good. Of course, this is one of the starting points that must still be present.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u93	Mr Jožef Kavticnik will ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The most recent amendment to the Law on Agricultural Lands adopted by the National Assembly 24. 5. In 2011, it set up new agricultural land protection frameworks. This law reintroduced in the Slovenian legal order compensation for the change of destination, which was abolished by the Construction Act. The purpose of the re-establishment of the compensation scheme due to the change of destination was to obtain funds for the establishment of new land for agricultural production due to the construction of agricultural land, as well as the rational and deliberate placement of spatial arrangements in the premises, both at municipal and national level. However, the implementation of the law then in practice experienced that, due to the above-mentioned law, compensation, for example, could carry an additional 10,000 and more euros for a thousand metres. Young families and people living in demographically threatened areas are most affected. In an uncertain economic and social situation, they have already made it so difficult for them to make decisions about rural life. This law, for example, has contributed to the burden of compensation on new builders who do not make the decision to build it because of their weight. Housing problems accumulate instead of solving them. Investments are not taking place, so neither inflows to state or economic operators. The construction sector is once again affected, people have to face this decline, the countryside does not settle, on the contrary, people from rural areas, young people are moving into cities. That's why I'm asking the minister: Or and how will he approach the removal of this anomaly, and when? Let me get this straight. We didn't notice these anomalies, or we were the only ones to know, but today's Minister of Mags warned. Vizjak said: "This is a unique solution in Europe. No one has such compensation, so in the SDS we propose to eliminate these compensations." It was also recognized by Mr Jakob Preseknik, who said: "Because in practice it has been shown that the amount of compensation has had a very negative impact on investments and we cannot afford to do so in the current economic situation, it is necessary to remedy this." I'm sure now you have every chance to make this right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The next question will be posed by the mag. Mr Matej Tonin to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u96	Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, hello! My question will somehow continue where my colleague ended up. We all know that spatial planning is an essential basis for any development. This represents the adoption of a municipal spatial plan for the municipality. This spatial plan somehow identifies where the municipality will carry out activities. If this plan cannot be quickly adopted or adopted in a relatively fast time, it stands for development in the individual congregation. This is happening all over Slovenia today because virtually few municipalities have adopted a municipal spatial plan, and many others are drowning in a variety of procedures and procedures and projects and new jobs – all of us are swimming through such long-term processes. The adoption of municipal spatial plans is practically stopped in many municipalities and Arso is the biggest problem in all this procedure. I think whoever's working on any construction and other stuff is very well aware of this agency. This government coalition has also talked a lot in its coalition treaty, and also in general about de-de-barcation, simplification of procedures and the like. We may all agree that it is very easy to talk about these things together, but there is a time when these things need to be realized. I am convinced that for the development of Slovenia and also for the progress of Slovenia, it will be extremely important if this government coalition in Arsa establishes order and speeds up the procedures taken by Arso. That's why I'm asking Minister Bogovich: What, in particular, does his ministry plan to improve the process of working on the Ars and to make the procedures run faster at this agency? Since the Minister is not here today, I would like him to answer me orally at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u97	Thank you very much. You will receive your answer at the next meeting. And the next one's a mag. Borut Ambrožič, who will question the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I am taking advantage of the business opportunity to ask the Minister a question despite the absence of the Minister, and I also ask in advance for an oral answer at one of the following meetings. Allow me to read what I have prepared on this issue. In 2010, the United Nations declared this year an international year of biodiversity, describing the diversity of living organisms. It is important because it provides clean air, food, restores fertility of the fingers, preserves genetic resources, maintains balance in climate impacts and conditions, and could also be listed. A number of studies, however, point out that biodiversity is at risk as we lose one percent of all animal and plant species over a hundred years, and none of this is exempt from the territory of Slovenia. The main reason for this is mainly loss or a change in habitats. The Ministry of the Environment and Space, whose work area or environment you took over in accordance with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, was the contracting authority of the project Descriptions of nests and monitoring of the crossing of bites in spring 2010, and the project contractor of the Society for the Observation and Study of Birds of Slovenia. The monitoring report on the population of selected bird species was transmitted to the contracting authority by 30. 9. 2010 In the report, the company identified six key threats to birds in internationally important bird areas in Slovenia, namely hunting, electroshock, nesting, agricultural intensification, inappropriate water regime at the nest and the destruction of the nest. As noted in the report, for a large urn, which is the red thread of this issue, a sympathetic Latin name called Bubo Bubo was found to be a worrying low nesting success, especially on the southern edge of the Trnovo forest and of the Nanos. Otherwise, society also identified nests such as the Kras, the Vipava Valley, the Robbery of the Celje Valley and Zasavje. After 2000, at least fifty of these beautiful birds were found dead, but not many have been found. That's why I'm asking the Minister a question because it's been a year and a half since the call: Were any measures taken to protect the large ovary and, as a result, the white storks in the event of an electric shock? And the question is: Is the Ministry considering measures that would allow companies that have a positive approach to the resolution of endangered birds to be able to make a tax relief in investing in the insurance of hazardous power lines or the cabling of hazardous sections, as the price is based on the data obtained? [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] 0.2 investments. [[...]] Thank you very much, and I ask for your oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u99	Thank you very much, you will receive an oral response at the next meeting. The next question will be posed by the Magi. Leila Hercegovac to Health Minister Tomaž Gantaru.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I regret that there is no minister at the moment. I'll believe he didn't leave because of the question. My question is for Minister Gantar, on the draft reference ambulance. The reference ambulances are a project doc. Dr. Tonke Poplas Susič and the former Minister of Health in 2011. This project was upgraded by the Ministry of Health as the Health Council adopted the conclusion that reference outpatients are being introduced in the field of basic health since 1 April last year. By September 2011, there were 60 of them and 47 by the end of the year. In 2012, 164 reference outpatients are expected to be added in four sets. 19. 4th of this year, it is announced in the news that the Management Committee of the Health Insurance Office has proposed measures, including the cancellation of the extension of the reference outpatients provided for by the 2012 General Arrangement. Question for Minister Gantar: Is the project for the introduction of a reference ambulance terminated or is it suspended and, if so, why? We know that the reference clinics represent progress in the patient's team treatment, that the cheapest treatments in Europe are to address chronic patients, to have greater access to safe healthcare and to reduce waiting periods. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u101	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u102	Thank you for asking. Similarly, I assess the importance of the reference ambulances, saying it is a good project, where several steps have been taken. That is why I have also taken over the chairmanship of the Draft Council for reference ambulances and also the project manager Dr Poplas Susič is working on this project for the first time on Wednesday. Indeed, the Management Board has proposed this, I think that the partners in the proposal's negotiation have not agreed, and the Government is likely to decide eventually. Thus, the institution itself will not be able to take this measure. It is true, however, that after the last week of the adopted law, we need to see what the actual effect of the remedial measures taken or, as we say, the health treasury in this year. I believe that this means – we are talking about height, I think about a million and a half euros – should be provided for this year, which we will try to do in every way. Some 150 new reference outpatients were foreseen this year. I think the next group is in June and then in September and December. I am in favour of the project and, if possible, we will continue this project this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u103	Complementary question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u104	Thank you, Minister. I am very pleased that the draft reference ambulances stand by to continue. There are also reference outpatients in the government plan and programme, and we all know that they are the cheapest. It's true that there's some extra money, but that's very little to see how much we get with this way of working. As early as the first infirmary, it was said that it would continue with 164 outpatients in four quarters this year. On 1 June, the funds should be paid off and reported from the field that the funds have been withdrawn so that they will not be paid. They've joined the infirmary's re-organizations and it's in a very bad mood. We understand the austerity measures, and even if it goes a little slower, it would be very nice to keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u105	Thank you. Do you want to add an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u106	You know that the measures in terms of the rehabilitation of the medical treasury were also largely on the side of the Health Insurance Office. We have just proposed what we have proposed in this law, and we would not take anything here for dry gold. You really need to check the effects, see where the possibility of this program is and how to drive it. Like I said, I'm defending him, and we're going to try to get him to do it this year — if not the other way around, so he doesn't stop. Maybe some numbers will go down or maybe not. But it's hard for me to say how much now. The fact is that the institution itself, once again, cannot take these measures, but must go through the government and we will decide on the basis of other facts.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Ms Alenka Jeraj will next raise a question to the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Zvonk Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the ministers who are still here. I'm interested in an old or long-standing story, namely, the curb on the Skofljica. Citizens re-announce road closures or inform the public, we can read what is happening on this really very road road when all traffic from Kočev and Ribnica runs towards Ljubljana and we can hear about congestion every morning. I want to know: How's work going? We know that part of the road over Piyavo Gorica is being restored or extended. Will this not only cause the stopper to be made in a small settlement in Pivava Gorica or how we will save traffic across these villages, both Piave Gorica and Velika Lašče? Is there a siege or can we expect a Shkofljica bypass?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u109	Thank you. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u110	Thank you so much for asking. Skofljica Obrovnica is also one of those projects where placing in space began a long time ago, in 2005 this happened with the initiative for the State Spatial Plan. In 2012, unfortunately, we are no longer significant than that initial rate 7 years ago. The government has recently dealt with some of the state spatial plans. This month, on the basis of comprehensive information in this area, it is also expected to take appropriate measures by establishing priority national spatial plans and by establishing timetables for them, as well as by establishing timetables for starting construction on individual sections of infrastructure of priority in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, both in the field of transport and energy infrastructure. Somehow it is estimated that this time frame for the duration of each State Spatial Plan could be up to a maximum of two to three years. All that is more is abnormal and does not allow for the normal implementation of activities in the infrastructure area and therefore activities are expected to take place in the future. In particular, regarding the outskirts of Škofljica. You know that we are again faced with some requirements arising from the insurance of individual habitats that are abnormal or lifeless. The most optimal option, which also places the least burden on the environment and takes place on the edge of Barja, which is less than 4 kilometres long, which in a relatively short time would solve this traffic problem in this area, is conditioned by providing more than 300 hectares of alternative habitats, which is impossible and is less than 28 hectares. In short, this is some limitation that the state places in a framework that is unrealistic, irrational and remotes the installation of the necessary carriageways in the space. As a result, attempts have already been made in recent months to find a temporary solution that could release traffic in this area, during this intersection in Škofljica and Lavrica, or by connecting to the highway, which would turn the existing bi-passenger into a three-passenger with a changing regime of 2 + 1 which would be in the morning and morning hours of 2 from the nomadic direction or the Grospelian, bishop of Ljubljana, and in the afternoons in the opposite direction; a regime known in some foreign countries. At the same time, the possibility of introducing a quadruple is being explored, but in my personal opinion these are not permanent, they are temporary solutions and only mean that traffic in this area will run out in a relatively short time. This relatively short time, however, means a bad year faster and that there will be no more traffic jams, but it does not provide a lasting solution. The permanent solution is definitely the Škofljica bypass, and in the way it was designed in the last period, along the edge of Barja, with possible minor deviations, which I personally estimate that it could be relatively quickly placed in the space, when this restriction is lifted, which is called providing replacement habitats in the area of over 300 hectares, but you know that the entire Barje ranges slightly over 300 hectares. In short, if this solution is reached, this State Spatial Plan can be completed in this year and in a relatively short period of time within a year, starting with this investment, which would be most optimal and rational. If this does not happen, then the decision to introduce this transport regime at this section, which I mentioned earlier, must be taken by mid-this year, is about 4 kilometers and a half long route. Nevertheless, we have decided that in the context of this release of traffic we will try to arrange the intersection at this entry point in front of Škofljica, where this road-to-road junction takes place in the direction of Grosuplja and Kamnikarje's intersection, which in some way would release at least part of this traffic regime. This traffic regime in Pijava Gorica v Turjak is running in line with the plans – it is expected to be completed by autumn – and will mean some traffic load, but without everything else, which I have talked about before, of course not. Preparations are also under way for the bypass road of Veliki Lašč, Ribnica and Kočev.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u111	Thank you very much. A complement to the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u112	Maybe just this: What does that mean for Lee Gorica? If we save Ribnica and Velika Lašče with the bypass, but not Piazza Gorica because it goes right across the middle of the village and there is not much to spread. That's one question. I think that when there's an archeology around Bar, there can be a problem. I don't know, or I understand that this may also be an opportunity to open some things up, but if it meant extending the investment again, I don't know how long it's been going on, but the question is, is if this is the most optimal. Given that this part is now also on UNESCO's global heritage of boulders, I think we know how to run into such remains, and it would probably be a problem. It would be good for all of these to be predicted, including these substitute habitats, if this condition is to be changed, which would be fine, then it is also necessary to know what will happen to archaeology. Maybe the answer to that.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u113	Thank you. Minister, even for supplementation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u114	Thank you very much. For the time being, there is no mandatory road in Pijava Gorica, there is provision for the reconstruction of the intersection by bus stops and with the relevant islands, which are supposed to calm traffic in this area in some way. With regard to the location of the Škofljica Oblast, however, I can say that Slovenia is probably not the only country to build infrastructure in areas under such or otherwise protection. On the basis of the information we have, however, it seems to me that we are indeed almost the only country that needs to be properly regulated for an abnormally long time. As far as archaeology is concerned, we know that where areas where archaeology is concerned, it is necessary to look at, dig, clean up, remove, and record, photograph, and so on, according to the expert knowledge of this matter. Thus, this placement will be nothing special in relation to the many other sites that have already taken place and where such or other protective regimes have taken place. However, it must be said that it is the course of the route, which goes on one side of the edge of this bar, along the edge of the protected area. It is the course of the route, which somehow follows the existing infrastructure, which already exists in this part, including the railway infrastructure, and that it is an example of the installation of this envelope, which is relatively small, not even four kilometres long, for abnormal requirements according to the size of the intervention. Such an abnormal requirement on the one hand cannot be met, because we do not have unlimited land to provide them in this area, but it would also be unnecessary, because it is likely that individual habitat species will develop where they are suited and feel good in that environment, not where a bureaucrat will order them to develop. On the other hand, they also irritate, significantly irritate, such interventions or investments that become abnormally expensive, and it is unreasonable and unreasonable to expect them to be placed in space as much as possible during this critical period as possible. In short, if I shorten, by the middle of this year, there must be a known decision: whether the Škofljica bypass will be adopted by the Government in this year in the framework of the State Spatial Plan and if it is found that, for such or other reasons, it will not be possible to do so, then we will accelerate the temporary solution that I mentioned earlier, which will allow for a greater permeability of the existing road connection between Škofljica and Lavrica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The following will be Mrs Saša Kos, who will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs mag. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President, nice greeting to everyone else! The 2012 budget balance in the ruling coalition, despite warnings from NGOs, has reduced funding for NGO social programmes by as much as 34%. Many NGOs operating in Slovenia are helping hundreds of thousands of people who are in severe distress through their social protection programmes. With this cut there will be fewer free lunches for people who can no longer afford lunch themselves, fewer aid packages for people living in poverty, fewer beds for the homeless, fewer assistance for people in mental distress, that is, telephone counselling for children, self-help groups, fewer places to protect and work mentally and physically affected, fewer collections for the most affected, less shelters for victims of violence, less holidays for the poor. The list is too long to look at the consequences of third-party cuts on social protection programmes, which are far from the only contribution of NGOs to a more just and sustainable society. As we know, there are about 8,000 employees in NGOs. However, the number of 200,000 volunteers who help these people who are at the edge of society says a number of things. And that cut you just made is far from meant to encourage or encourage volunteers to spread in this segment. Mr. Minister: How do you plan to ensure in the future the smooth functioning of the non-governmental sector, whose task or mission is to fill the gap in public sector services? And, of course, I would like to ask you another question. When preparing the 2013 budget, I hope that this satire will not happen again and that you will provide sufficient resources in the budget to help the people who are being pushed away by the state and the economy at all levels. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u117	Thank you for asking. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u118	Your Honor, thank you so much for asking. Thank you very much for the opportunity to give a little bit more illustration of what was happening with the funding of the non-governmental sector. In 2001, a good EUR 3 million was spent for these purposes. In 2002 3 million 800, in 2003 4 million 100, in 2004 5 million 300, 2005 - 5 million 700, in 2006 5 million 700, in 2007 6 million 900, in 2008 7 million 700, in 2009 9 million 100, in 2011 12 million 900. So within 10 years, funds for the operation of this number are four times as many assets. Now we're going after the rebalancing for these 10 million 700 programs. So we're going back around -- it's hard to say, because that's the second largest number in history. And you say it'll be less lunch, less bed, less that, less that. It won't be any less! This sector will also need to be somewhat rationalised and come back at least a little as far as the number of employees is concerned. We certainly do not want the programmes and content to be distorted, but we want any unnecessary costs no longer to arise in this sector. I was also involved in the perceptions that various referendum campaigns, including the family code, were financed through this non-governmental sector. Respected! I assure you that we will do everything we can to ensure that, through the reduction of funding for NGOs, those persons who are, of course, in need and necessary will not be affected. I agree with you that this is a very important compliment to those institutions implemented by the State through its formal levers and that they are necessary, necessary and right to develop. However, it is also right that these trends, which I have also illustrated to you, are somewhat rational, because at least in part – I am talking about the way this works, not the content that they cover – they also need to make some adjustments to the situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill? [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u120	Mr. Minister, it's usually like that, if you take something away from someone, it's usually very difficult to get those funds back the amount they took. You probably agree with that. That these institutions do not need higher funds, but smaller ones – I cannot agree with you in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Do you think a supplement is needed? [[Yeah.]] Here you go, for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u122	Thank you very much. It is true, of course, that this year we have included in this network a total of 83 multi-annual programmes covering the area of violence, that these are also one-year programmes and that there is a range of measures of the state and activities of this non-governmental sector growing year after year. It is normal to use funds to do so. However, it is also normal for the financier — this is the Government and the National Assembly, which has adopted these frameworks — to take on what can be spent effectively and rationally; that is, money goes to what it is intended for. We can recall the many affairs that have taken place under the cover of charity and under the cover of various charitable institutions. Finally, our Slovenian institutions and international institutions have also been subject to these perceptions, even though they are hiding under an extremely positive mission. I just want to stress that we will make sure that the programmes are not reversed, but that they are primarily rationalised. I think that there is room for reservations here and in the coming days I will accept representatives of NGOs that have already expressed their protest publicly, and together we will find a way to resolve these problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Darko Jazbec will ask the Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u124	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President, and a nice greeting to all present! Time will show what was adopted last week by adopting a law to balance public finances. In fact, in the area of health insurance, there may be quite a few problems. As we know, this law transfers part of the payment from compulsory health insurance to supplementary health insurance — 5 percent of it is in this law. This supplementary health insurance is an anomaly that has been known for years, and we cannot eliminate it. We have now increased it by this law. We are also at the summit in the European Union on the share of private funds needed to finance health care in the ratio of 70 to 30. Now we've made it bigger. What's the problem? The problem is that it is not exactly defined when supplementary health insurance is needed. I'm talking from practice about what's going on in the field. We know that Article 23 of the Health and Health Insurance Act stipulates when this should be done. However, when we read these articles, you cannot use this in practice. Now it'll be worth it if you don't have a supplementary health insurance, it'll go up. It also says here, let's say you don't have to for over 75 years, but as far as I know, it's always extra in practice if you don't have supplementary insurance. But it is introduced, there is chaos, the use of the term "emergency" has been introduced. Therefore, where necessary, supplementary health insurance should not be required. What is necessary is once again one such definition; you as a doctor also know well: all that is necessary is to delay the deterioration. So, a very broad definition. I want to know: Is there any tighter, new redefinition in this area when supplementary health insurance is needed, or is it not? How will this be controlled, or should we know in practice? After the new supplement, it won't be so small for someone who, say, doesn't have supplementary health insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u125	Thank you. Minister, here's the deal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u126	Thank you. So, in principle, what we accepted last week does not change absolutely anything in the way of accounting. As has been said several times, of course the measures taken – and this was one of them – mean, as far as I am concerned, a temporary solution until we adopt the new system legislation necessary in this area. Now, whether it went up or down a few percent, in fact, in the way of accounting, nothing changes. You've opened quite a few questions. One is the issue of the terminology of emergency inspections. We will define them, not for this purpose, not in terms of controls and method of payment, but simply because of the use of referrals to urgent checks, the use of these referrals on the one hand, and the additional definitions of the first checks on the other. But that wasn't the question. As for, of course, the supervision of the Department of Health Insurance itself. First of all, the Department of Health Insurance in this autonomy and these controls must work in accordance with the law, which is bound by the Health and Health Insurance Act and also by the Health Act obliges it to supervise payments of health services. It controls them in such a way that examinations for the person concerned of the medical records and also of the billing lists, and on this basis also establish the eligibility of the health treasury invoice. It is clear, however, that the percentage determines, where this service is performed in accordance with the provision, that the proportion, as determined in accordance with all these laws, the fixed share of the compulsory insurance and the remaining share of the supplementary health insurance. And here I see no greater difficulty in the light of the measures taken. However, I know that there are different interpretations on the one hand of the operators and on the other hand of the supervisors, what is the legitimate service or how it is recorded, whether it has actually been done, shown, calculated in the correct way. However, there are differences between supervisors who are trained doctors or pharmacists and operators on the other hand. There will probably be a need to further define these controls in the context of reform legislation, but there is absolutely no change at this time in relation to the adoption. So I don't know if I just answered what you wanted to hear. I just think that what was adopted last week does not actually affect the controls themselves as they are being carried out. But there are certain control issues, and I know that. It is only here that the Ministry cannot directly intervene because this is already in accordance with the law of the institution. And the rule that they have adopted is based on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I see you want a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u128	I would like to point out that there is chaos on the ground in this area. I'll explain with the cases, because sometimes it's easier. In practice, we see that a lot of patients refuse hospitalization, sign that they do not go to the hospital for their own responsibility. These are urgent observations or conditions when we simply require them to remain on the professional side. In fact, the background is that they do not have supplementary health insurance and are afraid of payment. This new law really doesn't change the way it's accounted for, but the amount of the sum, so it's going to be more expensive, 5% can sometimes be pretty nominal. Patients do not choose to stay in the hospital because they have no money and do not know whether they have to pay or not. I have to say, people who experience poverty don't like to admit it and it's a hidden effect. Then we have cases where we operated on them and didn't get them checked out. Everything got dirty, and then we had to get the stitches out after a month, because he had to pay for the check-up, but not the first surgery that was necessary. For example, if someone has abdominal pain, does not have to pay, comes for a checkup, gives him an ultrasound guide, comes back with a test, has to pay or have a supplemental check, it is no longer necessary. I could count those cases, too. It is also difficult to determine whether something will be written down or what the doctor says on the spot, because the administrator needs to give instructions on how to account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u129	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u130	Now I understand a little bit more, but it's not a question of control, what you've just said, but it's a pure question of calculating the prices of healthcare services. And also now it was considered that any service that did not have supplementary insurance had to be paid in different percentages. That was now. And it is true that this percentage is now increasing in some treatments. On the other hand, I have an appointment next week with these insurance companies, all three of them, for supplementary insurance, and, as has been said many times, I expect that they will not increase prices significantly. Above all, it is important that we need to amend the system legislation already this year, namely, to eliminate this dualism in payment by both addresses, because we are indeed a country that pays the most practically from people's pockets for compulsory health insurance, which has already been understood. And we will remove this by means of system-wide legislation. But at this point in time, in the worst case that we can expect this year, given that the impact of the last six months is virtually six months, it is possible to raise the premium, and I am saying what some themselves recognise is worth around €3. I do not think that this is such a number for a half-year period that I should be very concerned, because I am aware of the fact that for those who have a minimum wage, this sum is also excessive. Once again, it was not about reform measures, it was about shutting down the health register, not about resolving the deficit, but it was definitely about not having the services paid at the end of the year. And here was the choice not to define in advance which rights could be abolished. Because the reform work will raise the question of what rights are those that will only be from compulsory insurance and what is what may be acceptable as complementary or additional insurance. Otherwise, nothing changes in its way now.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mrs Irena Tavčar will ask the Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u132	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Your Honors are here! Initially, I should like to welcome the successfully completed activities carried out last week by criminals and police officers in a large-scale international criminal investigation into organised crime. In the light of the principle of legality, one of the most important principles, it is important that police tasks and all general police powers, including coercive means, are systematically and comprehensively regulated. They are currently regulated by the Police Act and several by-laws. In the past mandate, the National Assembly has also examined the law on the tasks and powers of the police, but a legislative procedure has been completed in view of the termination of the mandate of the previous composition of the National Assembly. At the time of consideration of the parliamentary amendment to the Police Act, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which opposed this law, stated that the drafting of the law on the tasks and powers of the police was in the final phase. It is undeniable that the effectiveness, expertise and legality of police work are linked to the appropriate material and moral evaluation of police work, the quality of equipment and working resources, including proper management, to mutual human relations and the internal sense of belonging to the police, but at the same time requires their consistent respect for the rule of law and human rights. For reasons of legal certainty, police powers or powers of police officers must be clearly defined. I ask Minister Gorenak: What about the drafting of laws regulating the exercise of police duties and powers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u133	Thank you. Minister Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u134	Thank you very much. And thank you for congratulating the police. After all, I must admit that I also made this public on Friday at this event, which was really not only Slovenian but of European importance. And I think the cops in these benches need to hear a little bit of an incentive card if we can't pay them the way we might want to. It's true what happens to law enforcement. The Police Act, which was adopted in 1998 – by the way, I must say that Slovenia was one of the last European countries to have ever adopted a police law after independence. This happened in 1998, then the body in the composition was also defined as such, i.e. the police as the body in the composition. The law was fixed very often, practically every few years we prepared it in the area of complaints, especially in the field of relations between the minister and the police and so on. What we're preparing right now is next. I must say that my predecessor has already made a decision to make two out of one law; one is supposed to be the law on the organisation and the work of the police and the other is the law on police powers. I was already last year when we discussed this law here in the National Assembly, and unfortunately last year, due to the conclusion of the National Assembly, the law was not adopted at all in the National Assembly and it somehow stood in the middle of the road, I said very clearly that, as far as the law on police powers was concerned, I did not oppose it last year as an opposition member, so the same law as it was written in the previous term will come to your bench in a very timely manner. This law will also have two new police powers. I hope that I will not be criticized by the opposition for introducing a police state with new police powers, i.e. these two articles will be the same as those written by the former coalition. It is, for the first time, a ban on entering sports events to persons who have already been punished or treated for violence at sports events, as we see it, we saw in Ljubljana, we also saw it in Maribor days ago. Another new police mandate will be to prohibit travel to such events. This means that the police will be able to stop someone in Maribor and say, "home and not Ljubljana for the game". This mandate has also been entered last year and I will propose it, hoping that I will not be attacked to introduce new police powers. At the same time, I must say that what you also discussed a few days ago in the framework of the intervention law so-called hybrid Mr Wilfan's law, he was not a new law, he was a copy-paste law that we are preparing, but he was put in, but nothing serious. The second law, which is the law on the organisation and functioning of the police – you can take a magnetogram – will not deviate from what I have also said as an opposition MP. This means that it will change considerably from what came to pass last year in this House. The two most important changes, perhaps I will still have time to make, are the following: for the first time, the procedure and the launch of the appointment of the Director-General of Police. The procedure introduced by Mrs Kresalov, who imagined that it would be likely to be lasting, we will change and bring it into the framework in which it has already been, and as is the case with all the other bodies in this country, we will have no exceptions and no specificities. And another matter that will be substantially changed is the position of the National Investigation Office. In the Coalition Treaty, we have clearly stated that we will strengthen the role and importance of the National Investigation Office, and we will also do so and will continue to work, and that we will place it in the system. And nothing else. I can tell you publicly that we're going to put him on top of the criminal profession. This means that they will be an integral part of the criminal police and will not be floating in the air with all the possibilities, including political influence, if you want, as was done in the previous mandate. So I hope you'll ask me something else, so I can go on. [[...]] Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u135	Thank you. Complementary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. Otherwise, in addition, I wanted to ask for powers to ensure the security and order of sports events. However, I would like to ask for a more detailed explanation of the law on the organisation and work of the police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u137	Here you go, supplemental.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u138	Thank you very much. If I can go on where I'm running out of time. Yes, the second change will be to place the National Investigation Office as the top professional part, if I may say so, at the top of the criminal police, where it also belongs, because it investigates the most serious crimes and the chairman will also be responsible to the Chief of Police or the Chief of Criminal Police, and it will not be such an arrangement that I have criticised as an opposition Member who was essentially the political decision of the former Minister. However, I must also say that last year, in this law, I objected to the re-election or appointment of commanders and directors of police administrations for a certain period of five years, with the possibility of a single repetition. That was last year’s decision or so was last year’s proposal. I objected to him at the time. However, I must say that this is how the police unions, especially the unions, convinced me that such a solution should be retained and kept. Otherwise, I can say that in the new law on the organisation and work of the police, we will not tempt ghosts with separate solutions and attacks on the law on the public sector's salary system, except in some of the very small parts that relate to, say, demonstrations before parliament. At such a time, I believe that we must provide some more favourable solutions for members of the police. So much for that. So we're coming up with two laws, and I'm counting that these two laws could be here next month in the National Assembly, and probably in your process, I'm guessing, the month of September. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u139	Thank you. Next up, it's mag. Jana Jenko, who will ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u140	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! My question is to Mr Franc Bogovic, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, on the basis of the Act establishing agrarian communities and restoring their property and rights, the agrarian communities have also acquired, inter alia, pastoral housing facilities used by shepherds in the past for housing and agricultural purposes. In most cases these facilities are now in very poor condition and need to be restored or completely replaced with new ones. There is will and money, and problems arise in obtaining a building permit. Agrarian communities urgently need agricultural and forest facilities for their smooth operation, such as barns, pastoral huts or flats, sirars, open roofs, water catchments, roads to buildings, fixed fences, gravel control, wells and mud pits and forest trains. These transactions go beyond the framework of regular management and are in the public interest and ensure the normal management of pastures and forests, thereby preserving land in Natura 2000. Article 11 of that Act lists transactions accepted by members of the agrarian community by agreement of more than three quarters of the members of the community in relation to their co-ownership shares. In these operations, pastoral estates and other facilities are not covered, nor are they defined in the 2011 Regulation on the classification of types of facilities and public buildings, and therefore it is not possible for the competent administrative authority to issue the necessary building permit or replacement construction. Current landowners, members of agricultural communities, were returned in denationalisation procedures. Many denationalisation beneficiaries are already dead, and succession proceedings are being conducted in the courts. Unfortunately, these procedures are complex and incomplete and it is therefore impossible to obtain the consent of all landowners or future landowners. Therefore, the key question is where those facilities should be placed, since, in the case of transactions relating to those facilities, they would not fall within the scope of the regulation governing agrarian communities, this would mean that they should be subject to the agreement of all, rather than three quarters of the owners. With regard to the issue described, I would like to ask: Do you intend to remedy these shortcomings in the law or in the regulation? When was it supposed to happen? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak is next and Mr Andrej Vizjak will answer the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. My question of mission is the Mag. Mr Andre Visiak, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Under Article 6 of the Social Protection Act, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is expected to establish by the end of April 2012 a register of the capacity of operators in the field of institutional protection for the elderly and institutional protection of adults with special needs. By the way, I was wondering if the register was already in place. The Ministry has prepared data on the current volume of capacity that are the baseline for the establishment of the register and proposals for the harmonisation of the standard of residence in cooperation with the Community of Social Institutions of Slovenia on the basis of data produced by public institutions. In addition to the objective of establishing the register on the Ministry’s website, it is also intended to determine the dynamics of the approximation of the applicable standard of residence in operators which deviate from the prescribed deadlines, which are as follows: by 1 September 2012 to 4 % of the impact on the operator’s capacity, by 31 December 2012 to 8 % of the impact on the operator’s capacity and in longer periods of time, and in cases more than 8 % of the impact on the operator’s capacity. The fact is, many homes of older people have problems adapting to the rules. In particular, those who carry out institutional protection activities in facilities which were originally built for other purposes, were then redesigned for the purpose of staying older citizens. Such a case is also the case at the home of the elderly in Hrastnik, which was originally built for the needs of the student’s home. These homes have enormous problems adapting to existing construction solutions to the requirements of the Regulation. They simply cannot, for example, make four-bed rooms suitable for triple, double or even single rooms. Thus, they will be forced to adequately reduce the capacity, which will immediately lead to the non-profitability of each home and will result in the closure of some of the elderly homes, which I am sure is not the aim of the ministry. With regard to the description, I would like to ask: How does the Ministry view this issue? Are the measures taken by the Ministry for the construction of homes for the elderly provided for this year? What is the long-term strategy of the ministry for building homes for the elderly? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u143	Minister Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I'm not gonna lose too much with the introduction because you got it right. I think you have outlined very well the legal framework and also the need to adapt to the Regulation, which lays down minimum technical requirements for social security providers, which all existing operators with concessions must do within 15 years. The Register of Capacity for Operators in Public Institutions is made in the form of a proposal, which means that this is already a sufficient basis for defining all future investments in this area. You have mentioned the problem that we are facing, namely, the norms and standards are new to those which have led some institutions to build and have existing concessions, so this will have to be adjusted within a certain time period, the Regulation speaks of a 15-year period. The type of houses is in Slovenia and the problem is that there is no public funding for it. That is why we have the Institute of Public Private Partnership and I see as one very promising private capital integration programme also in replacing and building these inadequate capacities with better ones. See, this is feasible and, as a result, we will also establish some dynamics on the basis of this register, how to integrate and what investments will be in which order. We will strive to get private partners for this. This is what I had this morning at 10 a.m. the construction of a foundation stone for a new home for older citizens in Brežice, a coincidence, based on a few years of private investor efforts to build a new home for older citizens in public institutions. So it's not a private home, it's a public house where private capital will build these necessary capacities. That's the model we want to use everywhere. This will have some consequences, as this price structure, calculated according to the methodology, will also introduce the investment price in the new way, which, according to the old one, was not included when the investment funds were provided from the budget. However, this will bring the standards and standards in line with the requirements of the Regulation, the housemakers will get a better standard, not three more, four in the rooms, but one to a maximum of two. And other improvements are foreseen, such as energy recovery, such as more appropriate common spaces and so on. I would therefore like to point out that such a new investment will also constitute new standards. And it is probably logical for all to see that, in the absence of public funds, this will also mean a certain price premium, which will not be known and will only bring prices in public institutions closer to those already in place in private institutions. What is the long-term strategy, you ask. On the basis of a capacity coverage analysis, the Ministry finds that this is satisfactory and allows 5% of the participation of all older persons up to 65 years of age in institutional protection. We will focus in particular on the improvement of the offer for the elderly. Above all, we will try to include this institutional protection, homes for the elderly, in certain programmes for the elderly at home. This is not to say that you have to go to a home, but that you can offer for older citizens new, better services at home. In the framework of all homes, we will also establish day centres where older people can come in daytime, to certain activities, they can be included in certain programmes. In short, with new offers, we want to primarily expand the range of these offers, allow the elderly to be involved according to their needs, not just home or home aid, as some measures envisage. The situation, the economic crisis, the poorer income situation, also causes less pressure on homes and in some way also relieves us of these supply asymmetries. In fact, in some environments we have a very sophisticated offer, in some, unfortunately, no. And there is another problem here, funding home for the elderly by the Department of Health Insurance, and this is likely to be the next time there will be a supplementary issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u145	Thank you. Will there be a follow-up question? He won't. Then let's move on. We're done with the first round. We are moving on to the second round The question of Members and Members. The first in the second round is mag. Majda Potrat, who has a question for two ministers, for the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigo Turk, who is not here, and for the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. Andrea Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister! It has been said that my question is being addressed by two ministries or two ministers, and let me tell you what the question is. What activities have the ministries carried out to ensure that foreign students who have been deprived of the right to receive state scholarships from 1 January 2012 have as much access as possible to higher education in our country? How the measure follows the objective of internationalisation of higher education, which is foreseen in the resolution on the National Higher Education Programme 2011/2020 that Slovenia will be an attractive destination for higher education and for the teaching, research and professional work of foreign students and experts and will be an example of good practice in the area of regional mobility, in particular the Western Balkans. I believe that the problem has triggered quite a bit of dissonance or belief that some kind of law will be passed, and then the referendum has stopped something. Of course, I am referring to the Small Work Act, which would also finance the mobility of foreign students from concession activities. But anyway, students who were without state scholarships and are from abroad could count on the promised assistance of the University of Ljubljana, which, although it had raised some money into a special fund, but significantly less than expected, the coastal even less, and the Maribor account in particular for the assistance of the state, so these resources are not enough. The initiative to set up a special fund for the internationalisation of universities has also failed because the Government considers that in 2006 the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the Development of Human Resources and Grants was established by the authorised institutional organisation for scholarships. However, there is no funding, so the problem remains, old applicants or beneficiaries will be granted a new study year and no new scholarship will be granted. However, it is interesting to note in the resolution that by 2020 10% of all students in Slovenian universities will be those from other countries, as the inclusion of foreign students would also be an additional sign of the high quality of Slovenian study programmes. Even if we looked at what the objectives are, we would expect a national strategy for the internationalisation of Slovenian higher education to be written by 2013 at the latest. I hope that, according to Minister Visiak's reply, I will be given an opportunity to ask a further question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u147	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Probably in the main part, this issue also concerns the Minister responsible for the higher education of Dr. Turk, but also me as the Minister, who I have in the Competent Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the development of staff and scholarships, which allows foreign students the means of calls for so-called Ad Future, which we intend to have over this year 15 calls in A, B and C sets, namely for scholarships, co-financing, education for the scientific cooperation of Slovenian citizens abroad. Since this is a matter of cooperation, it is clear that there is some level of reciprocity. It is then the Fulbrihgt programme for both years and for the education and scientific cooperation of foreign citizens in the Republic of Slovenia, especially in the Western Balkan countries, as well as others, including Afghanistan, for example. So we have quite a few resources on this subject, namely 2 million 200 in the 2012 spending plan, out of all the value of the programme, which is over €8.5 million. In short, these programmes are and will be developed this year, when we are talking about the Public Fund for Human Resources Development and Scholarship. However, I must also mention here some of the other rights that foreign students have. Although Slovenia is starting to apply the law on the exercise of rights from public resources with 1. 1. 2012 has suspended the access of foreign citizens to state scholarships, and under certain conditions foreign students are entitled to subsidisation of student food, subsidised transport and work through student services, and also rights, for example, that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who study in the Republic of Slovenia are also granted exemption from tuition. In short, I would like to say that there are quite a few measures that my colleague, Minister Turk, will surely add to them.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u149	I assume you have a supplementary question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u150	Thank you for that part of the answer. I will also link the two competent ministries below. 28. The measure, the national strategy for the internationalisation of Slovenian higher education, should be in place by 2013, so there is no longer much time. There is also little time to prepare an international institutional strategy with its own priorities. Here is a particular question of how NAKVIS will perform its function, given that this government will change the responsibilities of NAKVIS. 30. The measure, however, is one which, in my opinion, is most concerned with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, because by 2013 the same conditions for studying for citizens of the Western Balkans in respect of the payment of tuition fees and all other competences were to be introduced on a reciprocal basis. But it seems particularly important to me that the explanation also states that special scholarship schemes or targeted funding from existing sources will be introduced, with doctoral and sub-doctor candidates particularly being encouraged. It is therefore also new, for the best students coming from abroad, that additional funds will have to be made meaningfully. The acquisition was envisaged from a small work concession, but, as we know, this law was abolished. It is simply a matter of action, it is supposed to attract as many foreign students as possible to our higher education space, and you, Mr Minister, have also talked to me about those funds that are intended for the mobility of our students. In this case, I am interested in foreign students, because they are then the best ambassadors of connections with the Slovenian economy and the Slovenian state. Thank you for this part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u151	Complementary response, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u152	Yes, Your Honor, I am particularly interested in our students. And I think we are particularly interested because there is a limited amount of money available, and this is also what you recognized when you passed a law in the previous government on the enforcement of public funds rights and the solution to abolish these so-called state scholarships to foreign citizens. And I think it is right that these are mainly intended or intended for Slovenian students and students. May I remind you, however, that on Friday in this House you have adopted a law on the balance of public finances, which also provides for an increase in student work's concession fee, an important increase which will be a dedicated resource to the Public Fund for the grant and development of staff. So with this measure, you have substantially increased the grant funding at the level of the entire year, as this increased student concession fee will be the dedicated source of this fund. We've put a lot of weight on what you wanted to achieve in the Small Work Act. And here, let us make it clear to those opponents of the Public Finance Balance Act that through this law and through the concession fee for student work we have significantly increased the money for scholarships, including foreign citizens, through these special calls for Ad Future and so on. I want to say that I am not afraid that this money will be less, and I will also be happy to hear ideas about how to co-create policy in this area, those who have participated in it in the past, or who have had some constructive proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u153	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u154	I did not intend to propose a request for a debate on the Minister's response to the question raised by the Member States, because such initiatives are empty because the coalition has brought them down. But the answer given me by the minister at this time is that he demands a debate. If the honourable Mr Minister refers to his particular interest in local students, then I must say that as a former Member he was very badly involved in the debate on the National Higher Education Programme, which discusses the internationalisation of Slovenian higher education and the mobility of students and teachers. The goals are high and if we want to achieve these goals, this is 10% of the threshold of foreign students, 20% of the threshold of our students in international exchanges, the full equation of foreign and domestic students, then the approach should be more serious, I would say. In view of the way it is cut off in the Public Finance Balance Programme in the area of higher education and science, it is important to talk about the fact that, as an opposition Member, we should understand some things and really overly. Twenty-four additional million who have been extorted and digitized after the original 19 million for another five million, with those who carry out higher education activities saying that with an additional 20 million, without the 30 million they cut off, I ignore and round up, without these additional 50 million, it will be impossible to implement the programmes. And there will be foreign students and local students on the same level because they will not be able to join the study programmes that will not be implemented due to the lack of resources. And I think that these things are worth discussing, especially since Slovenia also has some international commitments and also reciprocity requires some of the conditions met. Foreign students are currently out of funds. When this happens with the new calls, there is another question. I certainly believe that the question of the creation of Slovenian higher education in the circumstances is a serious question and deserves the reply of Minister Viszak, and I hope that the Minister responsible for higher education is also responsible for these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We will decide on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. It is now up to Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič and the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Happy Zerjava.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Minister Radovan Žerjav. When I decided last week to ask whom to ask the question and what, I chose you, and it seems that we, Mr Minister, are telepathically connected, because you already had a press conference today and you presented it, you actually explained it, I can say that you have also answered my question. However, you have also asked the public a few questions or you have given yourself some tasks in terms of drawing on European funds. In particular, the financial perspective 2007-2013 is running out. So we've wasted three quarters of our time, as you yourself have found, we've only got one quarter of our time left to draw two thirds of our resources, but we've barely had a third of our resources, so 1.3 billion of our total 4 billion. And I'm afraid we're running out of time. And because in your address to the press conference, you have also given yourself the task of introducing a weekly inter-resort coordination between ministers and state secretaries, which is also correct, and that you will somehow identify or seek to identify problems or why these problems occur. I have to say, that's fine. Given that you have responded so quickly and have surpassed my official question, I am honored as an opposition Member, which is certainly a good practice, because you have repeatedly stated, actions and not words in your political career, as the Italians would say: Fatti, non parole. That is, if you continue to do so in practice, because now it is the control in your hands, the direction you choose, and because you really do not have enough time to implement all the projects that have been set up, I fear that this will not work, not because of your fault, because your predecessors have not done well. I'm just going to tell you how to deal with this as a problem-solving minister. Poor interdepartmental cooperation, you've already figured that out, that was a key problem. And there was something else going on — inter-resortary conjecture. Instead of co-operation, there has been inter-resortial conjecture in the past. I'm glad you're nodding at me because I've found that out in my practice. Certain employees are looking for problems and not solutions and are acting as I have repeatedly stressed as if they own their jobs. Everyone must be aware that they are part of the public service in the service of the people and not that they are their own purpose and must not interfere with the development of this society. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: How will you ensure greater success in the implementation of programmes and projects with European funds in such a short time? What are your additional measures that you will have to take to actually make this country – as we all want – a common goal of ours – successful and that we will draw on these European funds, which we find to be the only source of investment in this financial perspective, at least in 2012?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u157	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you for asking, too. I think you have rightly identified the issue of European funds. We are immediately following the launch of the mandate, because I am also personally aware that this is one of the key priorities and also, in fact, the only potential for development, for economic growth and so on, we have reviewed the inherited situation in detail and, as such, considered very serious, in some areas I would even say that it is critical. Critically because so far it has not been done enough. Here I am thinking mainly of the operational programme, the environmental and transport infrastructures, which are, of course, related to railway projects. In this regard, final decisions will also have to be taken relatively soon. Whether any of these projects, because of the situation in which it is, are considered impossible to implement it in this financial perspective, especially and only because it is in a state like this, we are still talking about construction permits, we are still talking about documentation, we are still talking about land purchases and so on, in short, about those basic issues that should have been resolved long ago. This is, of course, not the most encouraging situation, but I can say that, on the basis of this inherited state, we have taken many measures, one of which is, of course, a measure of weekly inter-ministerial coordination at the level of ministers. Because we think this is a big deal to make it happen, as you said, at some lower levels, and to look for more problems than solutions. We have adapted the guidelines and regulations, and it is likely that legislation will also have to be adapted, especially in relation to this, but not only because of this, but also because of other problems, we are talking about spatial legislation, the building law. It is likely also necessary to redistribute some of the funds related to these projects I am mentioning. We guarantee our own participation, of course, that was the key priority of this budget. Unfortunately, so far this has not been the case and many projects have also stood up because of the lack of ownership. We have introduced a regular transmission of requests for reimbursement to Brussels, thereby ensuring an ongoing influx into the state budget. We have been warned from Brussels that this has not happened regularly, but in such a partial way, when a number of projects were collected, a sum has also been sent, which has caused problems both for us and for Brussels. That's what we did. It will be necessary to increase the quality and effectiveness of project control so that what is now threatening us with the Stožice project will not happen to us. On the basis of all these measures, I can say that at this time we have confirmed 237 million public calls and projects, that I signed 122 annexes and contracts for municipalities totaling around €50 million in April, and that this Friday, 11 May, a public call for development priorities for the development of the regions was issued, so this is the sixth call for the period 2012-2014, where we are selling 145 million euro of grants to municipalities. Most of the resources under this call are for environmental infrastructure projects and public tourism infrastructures and slightly less for urban development, the development of urban cores and social infrastructure. Things are, I'll say, turning for the better. Of course, we'd always like things to be faster. I hope that, on the basis of all these measures that we have taken, we will be able to discuss substantial progress in drawing in the coming months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Complementary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u160	Thank you very much. This time I will take full advantage of what belongs to me. Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Minister, you mentioned an operational program. We all know, and now this is the fact that there will be a need to change the operational programme of environmental and transport infrastructure. I would just like to add further, given that I have to say that I am satisfied with your answer, I would be even more pleased if your words become flesh in practice. Given that the government intends to take quite a few measures, I need to give you guidance that economic growth needs to be changed or replaced by a mental pattern of those public service providers entrusted with the administration of this country. So, their chip needs to be replaced. And one more thing, Mr. Minister, is the problem in the sector lobby, which is being pulled by everyone on their side, and with this country they are trading as a shirt. That's a big problem. And we are not politicians who run and run this country, but are those who are already in a position somewhere and are actually in the clutches of certain structural lobbies. It is interesting that any option comes, left or right, one and the same are constantly in the same places. And they are the ones that need to be, I will say, shaken or shaken, I can also say, out of my pants, to work for the state and the citizens and not for the individual pockets, because there is a lot of money, of European resources, and if this does not go into the public infrastructure that is necessary for the development of this country, of the economy, we have briefly tangled up.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u161	Minister, supplemental response.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u162	Thank you very much. I must say, in many ways, I agree with you, especially in the last thing you said. I have also repeatedly said that this country is run by a second and a third level. What I think is important to add to this is that we will try without changing the operational programmes. Why? Because I think that by changing the operational programme, we would be wasting our time. So we need to find out for those projects that we will assess in a relatively short time so that they cannot be realised in this financial perspective, that within each operational programme we will find areas that are absorbable. And within the operational programme of environmental and transport infrastructure, which is most critical right now because of this infrastructure work, we will try to find alternative solutions mainly in that environmental work if you want to do energy work. So we don't want to change. Change of operational program means I won't say, almost a year. At this point in time, we cannot and must not afford visas to draw on European funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u163	Thank you very much. It's still procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u164	All the way. When you walk, go all the way, said our poet Tone Pavček. And I'm going all the way. Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you will try not to modify the operational programme and otherwise make use of these funds. I sincerely hope that you will succeed, so let's not waste time with unnecessary bureaucratic matters, let's move on. That's very good. I just need to tell you, Mr. Minister, that, in particular, in Southern Primorska, one major damage is being done to the inhabitants, that they have been putting the water supply of the coast and Crassus into space for more than 10 years to deal with waste management and that the problem is still not solved. I hope that we will achieve this with Minister Bogovic on Wednesday to finally reach a final decision that will allow for the drawing of cohesion funds, because we know that we have barely absorbed 15.6% of the funds envisaged there as well. And for this reason, Mr Minister, I think that given that the topic is very interesting and that you are the only minister in this government who, according to my assessment of your past statements, has one capital that you must now cash in and use to actually enable us to enable this country and the economy to move forward. You're an economic minister, you're actually responsible for development, everyone else has to follow you. And you're the ones you need to coordinate, and it's right that you have inter-resortary cooperation, because if you don't keep them on loops, everything here will run away, everyone on their side. For this reason, I propose that in the National Assembly, a respected Vice-President, a debate be held so that perhaps the colleagues and colleagues who are missing today, if we look at it, there may be a handful of us present, all of us have left this temple of democracy, God knows where they are, obviously having somewhere nicer than we are, but we're working together, we're all working together. Remember, we are also working hard for opposition Members and Members of Parliament, and we want to take this country to a better place with you. Never again and never again worse, because worse than today, unfortunately or not, we cannot be. And one more thing, Mr Minister, thank you very much for answering my question about the fast road Jagodje-Lucia. I hope you will hurry there, that we will indeed save you, because there are many people there who have been waiting too long, and I hope that they will also await this call, or this year, that at least their parcels will be bought. Madam Vice President, thank you so much for your beep. I hope that I have taken advantage of my situation, this parliamentary duty, and I hope that coalition colleagues and colleagues will listen to me, too, to confirm that we will have a debate in this temple of democracy on this pressing issue. Without that, there will be no development of this country. Infrastructure is our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u165	Thank you very much. We will discuss your proposal and decide tomorrow in the framework of the votes. However, I would like to explain to you that these letters you're alerting are already embedded in the system to make sure we're not too long. Now it's Mrs. Renata Brunskole. The Minister will obviously stay with us to the end and answer this and also the next question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! On 7 March 2011, the Act on coherent regional development was adopted, which provides additional support to high unemployment areas. Already in the previous term – I am sure that Mr Minister also remembers the adoption of this law, then a special law on assistance to Pomurje was passed for Pomurje. Following a decision by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 7 April 2011, the area of Poklopja, which is Kočevska and Bela Krajina, was classified among the demographically endangered areas with high unemployment, the unemployment rate in February 2012 was 18% in Montenegro, 20.9% in Kočev, which is strong above the average of the region of South-Eastern Slovenia, which is 12.6%, or Slovenia, where it is 12.4%. On the basis of such decisions by the Government and the high unemployment rate, the area at risk has the possibility of obtaining additional resources for development. This has also been confirmed in the Competitiveness and Development Support Programme 2011-2016. At the time, this fell under the authority of the Government Service for Local Self-Government, which is now under your resources and at the same time allows development institutions to function smoothly. The development institutions under this Pokolpija programme are thus RIC Bela krajina, Novo mesto Development Centre and Kočevje-Ribnica Development Centre and since November 2011, i.e. since last year, without a contract with the State or the competent ministry. Of course, it is their opinion and our opinion that if the government decided at that time to support the Kolpje programme, then it is also right to implement the decision and thus allow regional institutions to operate smoothly. Developmental institutions have difficulty raising funds because it has been so long since November 2011 to May 2012, this non-receiving of funds and an unsigned contract may even jeopardise their existence. Of course, these development institutes are crucial for the successful use of funds in the Call for proposals of Pocolpin. You mentioned a special programme for the development of the region, where there are more municipalities, and I am interested in: When will the Treaty on the financing of additional development tasks in the South-Eastern Slovenia region be signed if we are to achieve the objectives of the Pocolpian programme, namely both additional jobs and additional development?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Here's the answering minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u168	Thank you very much for that question. Indeed, on the basis of the legislation you have mentioned, the government has, in the previous term, set out the specific development status of the problem area with high unemployment. It has also adopted a programme to promote competitiveness and 7 specific measures to support the development of the Pocolupia and has instructed ministries to take the Pokoplja region into account as a priority area for development policies. The current government is also continuing this direction. With the current budget rebalancing, we have maintained budget lines within the Ministry for the implementation of specific measures in border areas of concern in Soča, Pomurje and also in Pokolp. In this way, in the Colosseum, we have ensured that the development programme can be implemented in the same way as it was set up, even more so, the resources of the programme, which remained unused for various reasons last year, have partly been replaced in this year's budget. In this way, we were able to finance an additional public call for smaller investment projects this February – to which part of the question raised – the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology's invitation to tender of EUR 700,000 is launched without specificity on the time sheet. So far, 27 deposits have come from White Krajina and Kočevsky. Decisions will be issued in May and will be followed by the conclusion of contracts. So things are running. According to the programme, we are also preparing a regular two-year public call for larger investment projects at the Ministry, as has been done in the previous year. State aid for investment projects in 2013 and 2014, including tourism, will be distributed between €3 million and €4 million. This invitation to tender is expected to be published in September or immediately after the preparation of the 2013 and 2014 cuts, the deadline for submission of applications will be ended at the beginning of next year or as soon as possible. For part of your question about financing development agencies, institutions and so on, I must say that, given that it has not been explicitly exposed, I must say that I do not have this information, that there would be any problem in this regard. If this is the problem, we will examine it absolutely at the Ministry and see what can be done, because I think there is no reason for any congestion here. In short, if I draw it under the line, as far as this programme related to the Choppers is concerned, things are running. I personally encourage them. I come from these environments myself, and I know what the situation is. Even beyond this programme, some things are going on with this economic work, some investments, improvements and so on. I hope we can move this case for the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. Also in connection with my question, which was related to how the activities were going on, I was just wondering if you were in fact aware that the problem was with this Treaty, so I would kindly ask you if you could check why this treaty was not available since November 2011. I believe that this problem may not have been detected yet, but I think it is the key to the functioning of these development institutions. However, when you mentioned that a new call was also made on 3 February, I should like to point out that on 3 February 2012 the Regulation on amendments and additions to the Regulation on the granting of regional State aid was adopted. What happened to this regulation? What is happening in the field of tax relief? When will entrepreneurs from Pocolpia be able to use them? Why do I ask you that? In fact, the Employment Office has published online a notice on the reimbursement of social security contributions that employers will be able to apply for contracts to be concluded from 21 March 2012 to 31 December 2013. And I want to know: Why is it not possible to apply this refund from 3 February when the Regulation was adopted, and not until the Employment Office published this matter on its website? That's the question. Why do I ask you that? Also today, some have informed me from the development institutions that they have this issue, this question, why not already on 3 February, but only when the institution announced it on 21 March. Otherwise, I would like to thank you in advance for this reply and for hurrying and acting in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u171	Minister, would you like to make an additional reply?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u172	Yeah, here's what I'm going to say, whatever I'm saying right now, I'm going to be a philosopher because I don't have all the information. I'm going to ask around, and I'm definitely going to pass this on to you. But I'm also interested because, as you say, it's a bit strange.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u173	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u174	You, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The last question raised by Mrs Alenka Pavlič to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Happy Zerjava.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u176	Thank you very much. It has been my honour to ask, last of all, Mr Žerjev, the Minister of Field, about a possible slightly less favourable matter. At the edge of the visit to Janez Janša in Germany, the prime minister met with Angela Merkel and the president of the German railways. I must commend the efforts made to strengthen Germany's relations and possible investments in Slovenia, as this is Europe's largest economic power. My concerns and questions, however, relate mainly to the revival of the logistics holding company. As I know from my own experience that investments in logistics development are not the area of your prime minister, he allowed the investment of 130 million euros from the Czech Republic, which will now sink the Intereuropa, I am deeply concerned about what will happen to logistics holding. I want to know: What does it mean to revive the idea of logistics holding? Does this mean that the Germans will pick up what we have and leave us badly? Let me ask you in more detail: Are the Germans going to get Luka and the railroad, and they're going to sink the Intereuropa because they have their own Schenker logist, who already has 90,000 employees? Do the Germans intend to take over the Intereuropa and all its employees? Because we do not want to see this happen to us in a logistics holding company like most of the investments made in the 2004-2008 mandate, most of them were Taiwanese and today companies such as: Istrabenz, Beerwarena Laško, Fructal, NLB, Intereuropa. Gentlemen, the tacunaisation and destruction of the management power within the 2004-2008 mandate has led us into a situation where people doubt all the CEOs, since the director could have been anyone who had the right card, regardless of whether he even knew what the balance sheet was and what the accounting account was. He's asking you what it means to revive a logistics holding company. What does this mean for our largest national strategic company, Luca Koper? Is there anything in this package for a poor Intereuropa? Probably not. I hope you, as the competent minister, realize that no one will give us anything in saving the country unless they see a great deal of benefit. In this logistics holding package is also Luka Koper, who would like to be taken by the Germans under the pretext of saving our railways in return. As we are aware from the 2004-2008 mandate, when Mr Vizjak sold Acroni and the entire Slovenian steel industry, there were also promises that the price was so low just because investors would invest an additional 300 million euros in development. I'm asking you: Is there any payment made by Angela Merkel and by this means to Germany for supporting the SDS party in the elections and thereby supporting your government?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u177	Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u178	Thank you very much. First of all. If anyone has resisted the tycoons in the past mandate, I have opposed the tycoons and the stories that were related to a story that was not good for this country as Minister of Transport. That question you asked me would be better if you asked the Prime Minister. For I have no information on what and how the President of the Government was talking to Chancellor Merklov, about a possible logistical holding. But I know something, if we want to accelerate the construction of the second track in Slovenia, we will have to find, for the first time, a second model of funding, and for the second time, we will have to find a strategic partner or someone who will be through the new model, whether it will be public private partnership or whatever, to help us build this second track. Because I don't see the possibility that the second track, if we're talking about 10 billion if we connect Koper to Hodosh or even a billion less than I am or there, I don't think we're able to fund ourselves, unless we want to build this link for another 20 or 30 years, which we probably can't afford from a time point of view, but we need this railway connection substantially earlier. So we need a strategic partner to help us co-finance this. Now, is this a model, so that this model forms a logistics holding company that I do not have any information about right now, I repeat what they were talking about, what form of cooperation I don't know anything about. But I know that the way it is, and that we just can't move things forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Complementary question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u180	This question seems extremely important to me, so I repeat, this is extremely important for the coast itself as well as for my former company, again: What does the idea of logistics holding mean for Luca Koper? Will Slovenia lose control of governance and ownership in any way? We really won't be able to let you do that. You've played us too much in the first term of Prime Minister Janez Janša. Sale of strategic investments Luke Koper, Insurance companies Triglav, Mercator, Petrol, Hita. It means we're going to be left in an empty country without property and power. We will become servants to the Western nations. Is that what we really want? We don't. Let me give you an example of what you'll find easier to understand. This is as if years ago we had an apartment with luxury equipment, and today we will sell out the last useful pieces of furniture and pay off the debts of the previous owner, which means all transitional governments. Please tell me, what are we going to do in this apartment with bare walls and empty spaces? Nothing at all. Under no circumstances should we sell strategic investments, which Luka Koper definitely is. Foreigners are welcome, but not at the sale of key companies. The question is again: What does that mean for Luca Koper? Will we lose control and ownership in any way? If this is the topic of conversation, you can stop immediately, because we will not allow you to sell this gem.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u181	Minister, I'm asking for an additional reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u182	I really can't agree that I played someone. Where did I participate in what? Please! If you're referring to the government, then don't flatten, you're asking me a question, I haven't played anyone in a logistics holding company. Me? But if you're asking me about Luke Koper, who's even talking about that Luka Koper selling? Where did anyone say that? Did anyone say anything about it? I didn't hear that. And I'm also against Luke Koper selling, by the way, if you want to hear it, absolutely, why sell it and do what? I'm talking about what's wrong. But the problem is railway infrastructure, we probably agree that this is a problem and that it needs to be solved. Now, we can save him for 30 years, but we can look for solutions that will solve the problem in a short time. And this is important to me as an economic minister to find a quick solution to build a second track. On my own, I don't think there's a chance that we can build it, but given the experience we have in building the highway cross, for example, the highway cross is financed on its own, to a large extent. In the case of railways, this proportion of self-financing is not that high. So we need someone who can help us do this so that we can make this happen in a relatively short time.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u183	Thank you. It's also a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u184	Mr. Secretary, I did not get any answers from you about Intereuropa. Therefore, I think it is crucial that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I request the National Assembly to define or hold a debate on the resolution of Slovenian logistics parade horses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-14-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u185	Thank you very much. We will also discuss this proposal and decide tomorrow in the context of the vote. I hereby also end this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, on Tuesday, 15 May 2012, when we decide in the context of the votes on the proposed decisions. I also interrupt the 3rd session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Goodbye.
