ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue the suspension of the 8th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Melita Župevc, Janja Klasinc, Jasmina Oppec after 15:00, Borut Pahor, Matjaž Han from 16.30 p.m., Only Bevk between 13.30 and 6.30 p.m. and Peter Wilfan. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a law on electronic communications. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly, and a group of 10 Members and Members with the first-signed Janko Webro requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I also welcome Minister Žig Turk and his associate. I give the floor to Minister Turk to further explain the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The main objective and purpose of the bill is to integrate the amended provisions of the European regulatory framework in the field of electronic communications brought by the so-called Directive on Better Regulation and the Directive on Citizens' Rights into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. In view of the incomplete transposition of the amended Directives in the field of electronic communications, proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union are already pending in the European Commission’s action against the Republic of Slovenia with a total fine of EUR 13 000 63 per day, provided that the legislation is not adopted until the judgment of the EU Court of Justice has been delivered. In view of the above, it is very urgent to adopt this law as a further delay could lead to significant damage to the state budget. Given the scope of the changes, we have drawn up a new law that generally establishes a revised regulatory environment for operators, comparable to the environment in other countries of the European Union, which will improve the competitiveness of operators and also encourage a new investment cycle in electronic communications, notably in the new generation mobile phone and in the faster broadband internet. At the same time, the draft law improves existing solutions for easier and faster development of broadband networks. In this context, the powers and activities of the national regulatory authority, which will be designated by the Communication Networks and Services Agency in accordance with the proposal of the law, have been increased – so far – by the Postal and Electronic Communications Agency – in relation to joint construction, and provisions on the common use of networks and facilities have been completed, which aims to improve the common use of communication infrastructure. The proposal for a law further indirectly opens up the possibility of including broadband access in the universality of services through the determination of an appropriate transmission speed suitable for functional Internet access determined by the Agency, taking into account legally defined criteria. The law also provides more efficient management and easier access to radio spectrum by reducing administrative barriers and introducing technological and service neutrality principles. The protection of consumer and user rights, including users with disabilities and users with special social needs, is being strengthened. Certain improvements are thus envisaged in the conclusion of procurement contracts and in ensuring transparency and the publication of information for end-users. For the benefit of users, there is also an obligation to transfer the telephone number to another operator on one working day. In order to prevent over-the-clock switching of television channels by cable network operators, the draft law also contains a provision giving the Agency the basis for issuing instructions for the classification of these programmes. This follows the interest set by media law and, of course, the interests of end-users, i.e. citizens. The protection of the privacy and personal data of end-users is also increasing. This will strengthen confidence in the use of electronic communications. In this context, for example, stricter conditions are introduced to interfere with the contracting authority's or user's terminal equipment; these are so-called cookies or cookies whose use is significantly more limited. The draft law introduces the principle of internet neutrality, according to which each internet traffic through a public communications network is treated equally, i.e. irrespective of the content, regardless of the application, of the service, of the device, of the source or of the objective of communication. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this law is urgently needed, as I have said, in order to comply with the European legal order and at the same time to prevent the damage caused by the financial penalties threatened by the EU Court of Justice if the law is not adopted before the verdict. Above all, the adoption of this law is necessary in order to further develop electronic communications. On the part of the Government, we therefore propose that the law under consideration, after general discussion, be supported and further discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u3	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Michael Prevc on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The material addressed in this proposal for a new law on electronic communications is undoubtedly one of the most extensive and also the most professional, which is addressed by Members, while at the same time this material concerns all our citizens, since there is virtually no individual today who does not use a fixed and mobile phone or internet and watches television or listen to radio. It is not surprising, therefore, that the procedure for drafting this Act started in early 2011, and that in the middle of this year the material was transmitted to the interested public and the response of the stakeholders was exceptional, which has led to the extension of the law procedure more than expected. A further complication was made by the fall of the government in September 2011, which only extended the drafting process. Following the opening of the current government, two more rounds of negotiations were held with the interested public and the views of all stakeholders were taken into account to the greatest extent. Of course, it is difficult to take into account all their comments that are directly affected by the provisions of the European regulatory framework in the field of electronic communications in such a large number of stakeholders, which is why the new law is adopted to the greatest extent. Of course, there are other reasons for the adoption of the law, particularly the creation of greater competition in the field of electronic communications, the improvement of the protection of users' rights and the protection of privacy and data. Thus, the new Law on Electronic Communications definitively brings to Slovenia the two European directives adopted in 2009 the main objectives of which were: the establishment of an internal market for electronic communications, the provision of the highest possible level of protection of personal data, and the safety of public communications networks. These Directives have already been partially transposed into the Slovenian legal order by the final amendment of the current Law on Electronic Communications, which is now included in the proposal for a new law, partly by the Government Regulation on measures for disabled end-users, and in this mandate we have adopted partial transposition of the Directives in the amendment to the Digital Broadcasting Act and the amendment of the Media Act. The deadline for full implementation of the Directives has already expired on 25 May 2011, which means that we are more than a year and a half behind national rules, of course not without consequences. This year, the European Commission brought Slovenia before the Court of Justice of the European Union for failing to comply with the deadlines for the implementation of the Telecommunications Directives. It also proposed to the Court a daily penalty of some more than €13 000 if Slovenia does not act on its decision. So, with the Court of Justice of the European Union, we are fighting some sort of battle over who will make the decision first and who and how much they will pay. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we fear that Slovenia or our budget will draw short in this fight, but we hope that our fears will not eventually come true. For example, the designation of the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications, the so-called Apek, as the Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia, which also increases certain competences, is essential news identified in the proposed Law on Electronic Communications. For example, television viewers will benefit from an increase in the Agency’s programming competence, taking into account the public interest. This means that programmes of national interest and Slovenian programmes will be in the first places of programming, which our Group believes will be a good solution. The proposed law also establishes the possibility of introducing the next generation of mobile networks, the so-called LTE networks that will allow even faster wireless services. In the provision of broadband, mention should also be made of the obligation of a telecommunications operator selected as a universal telephone service provider to enable functional Internet access for all users at low prices. This creates better conditions for improving the coverage of the broadband country and for covering so-called grey foxes, where access to quality internet is still very difficult. It would have stopped somewhat further in the case of Article 166, paragraph 7, at issue, which provides for the obligation of the operator to transmit stored information on the contracting authority to the competent authority on the basis of its written request, to which the information officer has been alerting for some time. Even in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware that such an intervention in the communication privacy of an individual without a judicial decision may be problematic in terms of the protection of constitutional rights. In the parliamentary group, we estimate that the text of the new Law on Electronic Communications is very complete and that a slight improvement can be made, so we will also support the proposed law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u5	On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dearly greeted, Minister with fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The aim of the proposed amendment to the Law on Electronic Communications is, as we know, mainly to harmonise national legislation with European legislation, as the Republic of Slovenia is already far behind in the implementation of the Telecommunications Regulatory Directives. The actions brought by the European Commission against our country and the proposed daily fine of €13 000 are a sufficiently valid argument for the legislative proposals adopted under the urgent procedure. By transposing directives, we will encourage a new wave of investment in electronic communications, in particular mobile networks and the Internet. We will accelerate the development of the information society, ensure effective competition in the electronic communications market and universal services. Most importantly, effective protection of user rights, including users with disabilities and users with special social needs, will be ensured. The rights to the communication privacy of users of public communications services will also be guaranteed. On the one hand, this will strengthen consumer safety, and on the other hand competition in the market will also be strengthened. Despite all the improvements brought by the novels, I must say that in the DeSUS Group we are concerned about the provisions of Article 166, paragraph 7. This provides that a written request from the State authority, rather than a judicial order, is sufficient to obtain information on the electronic connection contracting authority, as provided for in the applicable law. In the DeSUS Group, we fear that these provisions lower the level of protection of fundamental human rights and at this point we agree with the information officer who says that democracy and the freedom of citizens are measured by how their human rights and freedoms are protected in relation to the police: a higher level of control is lower the level of democracy in a society. Slovenia has, as far as communication privacy is concerned, one of the strictest constitutional arrangements in the European Union, which testifies to the high degree of democracy in our society. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a law, provided that the provisions of Article 166, paragraph 7, are amended or deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u7	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Dear President, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for an electronic communication law follows two main objectives: firstly, updating national legislation by transposing amended provisions of the European Directives in the field of electronic communications, and secondly, promoting the development of electronic communications networks and services in our country. According to homework, this law would, among other things, allow a new cycle of investment in electronic networks in Slovenia according to European comparable standards and thus contribute to the start of economic growth. Electronic media enables more plurality and is important information bringers, so in New Slovenia we believe that their potential needs to be better exploited, and the fact is that users need to acquire competences in information and communication technology, which include the confident and critical use of information technology in their leisure and communication work. Unfortunately, we can still talk about non-covery and grey foxes on the broadband network, which prevents further steps in the development of services, including public ones. At present, it is entirely impossible for the public administration to fully enter into electronic commerce because the coverage of Slovenia with a broadband network is uneven or not at all at all. In New Slovenia, we support the construction and development of modern electronic communications networks with appropriate infrastructure, while welcoming the fact that the law regulates the provision of effective competition in the electronic communications market, the effective use of radio spectrum, the protection of users' rights, including users with disabilities and users with special social needs, and the right to communication privacy of users of public communications resources. Members of New Slovenia will be supported by a law that will fully regulate the area.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u9	On behalf of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities, Dr László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We believe that the proposal for a law on electronic communication is a matter which, from the point of view of modern information society, systematically regulates this important content. As has been pointed out several times today, the new Law on Electronic Communications, in addition to the transposition of the provisions of the European regulatory framework into national legislation, is needed primarily to promote the development of electronic communications networks and services in the country and thus economic and social development in the country, as well as to develop the internal market of the European Union. It seems very important to us that the proposals and positions of the Slovenian Advertising Chamber, as well as the Office of the Information Officer and the Media Chamber at the Economic Chamber, have been largely included in the text of the proposal. Otherwise, those institutions or associations have some very well-founded comments that we hope to make, at least to a certain extent or in particular, the most important, to take into account, or reward, the amendment phase. The bill does not directly affect the model of protection of indigenous national communities in the Republic of Slovenia, so we believe that the provisions on the public and official use of the language of indigenous national communities and media activities and information of these communities will be regulated in this area as defined by the sectoral laws on the public use of Slovenian, media and RTV Slovenia. The provision in Article 29, paragraph 4, of the second paragraph, which provides that the Agency may, by means of the general act referred to in Article 27 of this Law, provide for the provision of certain electronic communications services in a particular radio frequency band, where it considers that this is also necessary to promote cultural and linguistic diversity and media pluralism by assigning radio frequency to broadcasting. Despite this finding or despite our general conclusion that the proposal does not directly affect the scope of such content, since it is the first reading of the law, we propose to the applicant the following questions or dilemmas. The draft law also touches on the allocation of radio frequencies, distribution of programmes and the like, at least indirectly affecting the field of media activities and informing indigenous national communities. We wonder whether in certain places or in certain provisions of the proposal the law would apply more precisely and unequivocally to a link with the provisions of the Media Act and the RTV Act relating to this content. We also believe that Article 56 does not sufficiently define who is interested in the public, which may not be as important from the general point of view and may have certain consequences from the point of view of the national community. We wonder what else makes sense to us — that is, the so - called interested public — even the national community or the self - government national community. In this regard, it is particularly important and, in view of our possible integration into the further process of enacting the law, it is also decisive how the bill-maker understands this. We will also present these dilemmas more specifically on the home working committee when, if necessary, we also propose possible additions if we do not get clear views on them by the proposer by then. Notwithstanding the issues raised and in the hope that the most important comments, the comments mentioned above and the comments of other important factors, will be taken into account, we will support the proposal in the context of the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u11	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia Mrs Maja Dimitrovski.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The proposal for the Law on Electronic Communications is a typical proposal of a law that is of an extraordinary technical nature and contains many good solutions designed primarily to protect consumers more than users of electronic communications. It is a complex matter that is largely transposed by the provisions of the two European directives, which constitute a European regulatory framework in the field of telecommunications. The bill has been harmonised for a long time. It has been channelled into a government procedure with the support of the entire professional public, with which it has been coordinated for almost two years. However, despite all this coordination, Minister Žiga Turk has allowed himself to introduce additional non-coordinated provisions in the process, which can have far-reaching implications for the protection of the privacy of citizens, following the warnings of the information officer. In the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia, we are outraged at the government's stalemate attempt to enable the police and some other security authorities, including Owls, to request, without a court order and only by written request of mobile operators, information about the owner of the communications connection, i.e. mobile phone, internet connection. The provision constitutes a serious violation of fundamental human rights, or a violation of Article 37 of the Constitution, which provides that the confidentiality of communication is ensured and that only a law may provide that, on the basis of a decision of a court for a period of time, the inviolability of human privacy shall not be taken into account, provided that this is necessary for the introduction or for the course of criminal proceedings or for the security of the State. Access to freedom of communication is not permitted without prior permission from the Court, as the Constitutional Court has also pointed out. Obtaining information on the identity of communications users solely on the basis of a written request from the police is a worrying proposal from the Government, which apparently wants to enforce the police state and supervise the citizens in the great brother's manner. So the government's tendency to control and control all the pores of society obviously has no limits. Despite a statement on how the anti-crisis coalition is concerned, the priorities of this coalition were crystallized at the first government meeting, when, as the most important anti-crisis measure, she replaced the director of the Owl. I still can't imagine why the director of the intelligence service has such an important role in relaunching the Slovenian economy. He followed the brutal human resources tsunami, whose main objective was to put loyal people's coalition in as many positions as possible, including the post of Police Director General. In order to facilitate the supervision of citizens, it was necessary to unite the police and the prosecution, under the same weakness, despite the opposition of the profession and one of the coalition partners. The proposed solution in this law proves that this coalition does not even hide it anymore. If we are not surprised by this by the biggest government party, we are so much more concerned because other coalition partners are also involved; also those who place fundamental human rights and fundamental freedoms at least a high priority. In the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia will fight against such attempts at abuse of power and will not be put at risk for failure to implement European legislation. Since the law is largely correct and the result of professional work and coordination, we will not oppose it at this stage of consideration. However, we expect that the coalition will also meet with intelligence and will not agree to the uncoordinated ministers of political interest, which the Minister of Turk, through a solo action, will withdraw and the disputed definition will be withdrawn. If she insists on it, we will strongly oppose the adoption of the law in the Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u13	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u14	Your Honor! Also on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party and its Group of Members, a very nice greeting. In the words of the distinguished spokeswoman, I thought for a moment how nice it would be if we also listened to each other in this House and wanted to hear each other. For several weeks ago, the SDS Group issued a statement stating that, of course, that article, which was the subject of the controversy, would fly out of the law, announced its deletion in its entirety, and today this has been quite consistent in the opening presentations. This is, of course, an unnecessary loss of words, a talk about something that has practically gone down in history, and to avoid those who are important. For this law, which is before us today, is important for many reasons. Firstly, because it is a matter of enforcing a European directive. It is a matter of regulating the delays of the previous government, which has not acted in a timely manner here, and preventing for Slovenia the harmful consequences, including financial penalties, which would have followed if we had not implemented the European directives in our legislation in a timely manner after the warnings already received. Secondly, because I have been dealing with computers for a long time, I see as a special quality of this law, and it remains entirely at the side of all these debates, and it is a provision which will require that all traffic on the Internet be treated equally and equally. Those who do not deal with the Internet may not even see anything special about it. However, it is important to know that in some countries, even in those that are the starting point of the Internet, there are, in particular, prejudices to the possibility that Internet traffic will be dealt with in an unequal way in the future, even by law or by specific rules. This would, of course, mean the end of the internet as a space of freedom. This would have extremely negative long-term consequences if there had been any enforcement of such solutions for the Internet as a place where freedom of the spirit and freedom of man, freedom of information, access to information comes first. I'm saying it's always the way it's supposed to be. For this reason, this law is extremely important and is a step forward, is a step ahead of others and will, I hope, be an example to other countries as well. Because of this special quality and because we need to do everything we can to remedy the effects of the winter sleep in the last three years of the previous government in this area in a timely manner, we will be united in supporting the law in the SDS Group and will do everything possible to ensure that it is adopted as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u15	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u16	Respected and respected! The proposal for the Law on Electronic Communications introduces a new European directive into Slovenia's legal order, but because we are already very late for transposition, we are at risk of high monetary penalties. At the end of May this year, the European Commission has brought a legal dispute before the Court of Justice of the European Union against Slovenia because we are late in implementing the rules on telecommunications, and should have amended the legislation a year and a half ago, so a fine of EUR 13,000 per day is proposed to the Court. The lawsuit was served to the Republic of Slovenia in early September. The law was already being prepared in the mandate of the previous government and is finally ahead of us today. Most solutions are from the point of view of the profession of good and necessary, if not necessary. The proposal brings a higher level of rights for end-users, with particular emphasis on the rights of disabled users. More competition is ensured between mobile operators and gives consumers added rights, such as replacing a telephone operator within one day without a changed number and immediately informing about the theft of personal data online. Among other things, the principle of technological and service neutrality is introduced and a new chapter on network security and the operation of networks in exceptional situations is introduced. Opportunities for the introduction of the next generation of mobile networks, so-called long-term evolution, are open [[LTE]] network. The provision on the neutrality of the Internet is also an important step in the regulation of the market for electronic communications and the protection of the rights of users, in the view of the Council for Electronic Communications. By implementing, Slovenia would be one of the leading European countries in ensuring the neutrality of the Internet. So many things in this marriage are welcome. The Social Democrats, too, have problems with certain provisions of the law, which have been found in the proposal without consultation, are not harmonised and may even be constitutionally controversial. So today we are not talking about a proposal for a law that the coalition will continue to correct, today we are talking about a specific text and to this specific text, which still includes the constitutionally controversial provisions, we are defining. And the principle of caution, because we do not trust this government and because there is little credibility in our eyes, we define ourselves to the exact text that is before us today. The Information Officer thus points out that the provision of the law is contrary to Article 37 of the Constitution. The police and some other security authorities, including Sova, are, according to the provisions of this law, able to request, without a court order, data on the owner of a communications connection, such as a mobile phone or an internet connection, only by written request of mobile operators. The Government's explanation does not hold back, as it is misleading to refer to the needs of practice where operators in cases of hosting a foreign telephone connection on the mobile network of the Slovenian operator's obligation to provide certain user data, which do not already require a court order, could not carry out without looking into the database of stored data. However, the fact is that our operators do not even store or store information about the owner of the communications connection if it is not their client. In view of the above, the question is rightly raised as to what is the correct purpose of this amendment. This was pointed out by the information officer; she warned that the provision was contrary to Article 37 of the Constitution, which ensured the confidentiality of letters and other publications. According to her Office, the provision is inappropriate and inconsistent with the police's attempt to legalise, despite strict but clear requirements of the Constitution, the acquisition of information on the identity of communicating users only on the basis of a written request and not on the basis of a court. Thus, the situation is comparable: – so that the police could enter your apartment without an appropriate court order, only on the basis of a written request. This is unsustainable, this is not respect for the protection of privacy, and we therefore strongly oppose it by the Social Democrats. While we are pleased that coalition representatives are also forecasting a change, we will therefore be determined to support the law when this change is achieved on the part of the working bodies themselves. However, it is not only the information officer who has reasonable concerns about the proposed law. The wider professional public, including the Pirate Party of Slovenia, draws attention to other controversial provisions. Thus, in the field of e-mail, provisions on content data from higher-ranking protocols, the so-called Deep Packet Inspections, which should not be analysed and recorded, are also disputed. We believe that any collection and storage of data without well-founded reasons is unacceptable, as it constitutes an intervention in individual privacy. The data storage time itself should be reduced to a minimum, that is to say 6 months or less. Surely there are many such provisions that could be put forward at the time of this hearing, for now, as long as those and some other controversial provisions remain part of the text, we cannot support the Social Democrats of the bill, so we will vote against the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u17	And also on behalf of the Group of Citizens, Mrs Polonca Komar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! What does electronic communication mean in Slovenia? Let us look at some of the development indicators in 2011. At the end of the year, there were 61 cable and satellite service providers on the Slovenian market, 58 internet service providers, 11 fixed telephone network operators, 6 mobile network operators and 505,000 broadband internet connections. This data points to a wide range of stakeholders covered by the Proposal for an Law on Electronic Communications. The reason for drafting this law is to transpose the five directives of the European Union into national law. These are directives that, on the one hand, strengthen consumer protection and, on the other hand, competition on the market. Due to the high sentences of threat, the bill was prepared so quickly and we are improving the existing legislation that is important for the development of telecommunications in Slovenia. The legislative proposal implements the principles arising from the Directives themselves, namely objectivity, non-discrimination, transparency and proportionality. In the Civil Gazette, we welcome the fact that the law will ensure effective competition in the electronic communications market, the efficient use of radio spectrum and numbering elements, universal services and the protection of user rights, including users with disabilities and users with special social needs. The bill opens the possibility of including broadband access in universal service, and thus the possibility of increasing the coverage of Slovenia through broadband. In the course of the changes, mention should be made to increasing the competence and activities of Apek in the area of network building and related infrastructure and to changing its name. A new body of the Agency is being introduced, namely the Board of the Agency, which will slightly increase the supervisory role and assume certain tasks of the supervisory authority, but will not participate in substantive decisions in the field of the Agency's work. Furthermore, the annual payment regime to be paid to the Agency by operators is changing. A new chapter on the construction of electronic communications networks and related infrastructure is being introduced. This increases transparency. In doing so, reference shall be made to the obligations arising from other sectoral legislation in this area. It has been found that such a reference introduces only unnecessary confusion. With a view to facilitating space placement, the public communications network with the relevant infrastructure shall be considered economic public infrastructure after a new one for spatial planning purposes. New in terms of existing arrangements is also an unpaid service in the case of the construction of public communications networks financed by public funds, on the property of the State or the self-government local community. For the provision of radio frequencies for the provision of public communications services to end-users, a compulsory tendering procedure shall be established without the provision of an interested public consultation procedure. However, the possibility of a public auction is introduced for the allocation of radio frequencies in cases where it is the only criterion for price selection. In the future, it will no longer be possible to extend the radio frequency allocation decisions for the provision of public communications services to end-users. However, it is envisaged that the decisions on the allocation of radio frequencies which were initially awarded through a public invitation to tender, other than radio frequencies, for the provision of analogue broadcasting, should be renewed. During the adoption procedure, we will specifically advocate the right of communication privacy of users of public communications services and consumer protection in the National Gazette. We will pay particular attention to maintaining judicial supervision in the protection of personal data, in particular Article 166 of the bill, where the proposed provision for the time being provides that it is sufficient to obtain data on the identity of communicative individuals only in writing from a State authority and not a judicial order as provided for in the law in force. Article 37 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that confidentiality of letters and other communications is guaranteed and that only a law may provide that, on the basis of a decision of the Court for a certain period of time, the protection of the confidentiality of letters and other communications and the inviolability of human privacy shall not be taken into account, provided that this is necessary for the introduction or conduct of criminal proceedings or even for the security of the State. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia also requires strict conditions for interference with communications privacy, including judicial supervision. The provision of Article 166, however, interferes with this communication privacy, and we will therefore advocate in the Civil Gazette that the provision in question should be deleted and that the standard of judicial control, i.e. the order of the court, should be maintained. In our Group of Members, we believe that this proposal will give us a modern law that will enable Slovenia to develop telecommunications even more quickly, so we will support it in this consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. First, Minister Turk spoke. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you for most of the good discussions. As a matter of fact, there was only one of them, which is why I now agree to the word. I understand that Members or Members are looking for a chance to say something juicy, to appear in the media, on television, whether that juicy word is real or not. I must protest Mrs Dimitrovska's debate that the ministry's conduct in this case has been flattened by the fact that it was a solo action by Minister Turk, of course, the brutal human rights tsunami has nothing to do with this. Let me explain, if the law were to be harmonised, then of course I would go in line with the Government and with the Government forward to Parliament. The law was not harmonised, some government departments had comments and it threatened to adopt the Government's law only a few weeks later, which would mean another parliamentary session to be late, and at the time of the 13 thousand euro a day, it seemed important to us that the law was coming to Parliament as soon as possible. I must protest the statements that this is a matter of reducing the privacy of letters and human rights. Article 166, paragraph 7, does not diminish communication privacy and only introduces identical solutions into this law, such as the Law on Owl or the Law on Criminal Procedure. The Criminal Procedure Act was last amended in 2011, at which time the opportunity was for what to be settled there and Article 149, third paragraph, states: "If there are grounds to suspect that an offence has been committed or that an offence is being committed for which the perpetrator is being prosecuted under official responsibility, and it is necessary to obtain information on the owner or user of a particular means of communication for electronic communications which are not published in the procurement directory and on the time when such a means has been or has been used, the police may require the operator of the electronic communications network to provide such information to her at her written request without the consent of the person to whom the information relates." In short, we have written in the law something that is significantly less than what is written in the existing legislation, which, as I say, was last amended in 2011. I am not saying this in order to defend Article 166, paragraph 7. I have read this to protest that our ministry is accusing itself that at any point we have revived the protection of human rights and the privacy of communication in this country. Mr Frangež made a comparison that a court decision was needed to allow law enforcement authorities to search our apartment. The comparison, which would be more on the spot, is that if a police officer finds that a crime is being committed in a physical space, of course you can be legitimate on the road. Something similar is this third paragraph of Article 149 of the Penal Code, which introduces some kind of legitimacy on the Internet. And since the matter is regulated in sectoral legislation, it does not seem reasonable for our ministry to repeat things in this law, so we agree with the coalition's proposal or with the SDS's proposal to withdraw this disputed article. But I repeat, I take the floor because the accusations that we have revived privacy, that it was some solo action by Minister Turk, are squeamish and I don't know what else, that must be strongly rejected. Two more short cases. With regard to the debate by Mr Gönch, the public concerned shall include everything. This is a very broad concept, including, of course, minorities. And as for Deep Packet Inspection, the law explicitly does not mention it. It greatly limits such options to the need for operators to monitor their networks in full technical terms rather than on a substantive basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u21	The debate is open to Members and Members. The first one has the word Mr Jerko Čehovin, behind him mag. Matthew Tonin. If I see it correctly, Mr. Chehovin is not in the hall. So he's got the word "magic." Matthew Tonin, behind him mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u22	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! Perhaps my debate will be somewhat unusual, but today you all claim in one voice and attach to how controversial this seventh paragraph of Article 166 is to be, which speaks of an operator having to disclose the identity of the owner of this connection at the request of the State authority. As a member of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission, I feel somehow obliged to explain the other side of this story, that there will not be just one side to Parliament, but also because of the spirit of democracy. When we talk about human rights and security, these two things always bump into each other, one way or another. If we want more security, on the other hand, it probably means less human rights; on the other hand, if we have more human rights, there is less security, one way or another. And when we all wondered yesterday about the Balkan Warrior's verdict, this is one of those cases, which shows that sometimes with human rights, we exaggerate that things can go in an unproductive way. What am I trying to say? Personally, it does not mean to me that if an operator is obliged to disclose the connection owner, that it is the disclosure of a communication or that it is an intervention in a communication, at least I personally do not understand it. However, this provision could be of great help to all our security services — but I can explain it on a case-by-case basis. If a person is suspected of causing some criminal activity, at least by this provision they can create a network with which he communicates. They cannot determine what they are communicating with, they cannot determine the content of their communication, but they can create a network with which a particular individual communicates. You will probably agree at this point that in some process, when hunting a criminal, it may be crucial. Therefore, as I have said, in comparison with all the others you have discussed today, the coalition has also debated this way, at least I personally do not see here so much interference in human rights that this matter would be so dramatic that it should be excluded from the law without delay, especially because it could be captured in this way more. I'm going to touch Article 154. 154. Article 154 speaks, according to the local word, of showing an identity, of calling a telephone number or using a mobile phone number to display an identity. At this point, however, I would like to point out that there are certain operators in Slovenia that enable online applications or programs with which you can type in any phone number and send SMS messages from this phone number. What's the problem? One such problem occurred to our boyfriends on a client or my colleagues when someone stole the identity of some phone numbers and sent false text messages with threatening content from a phone connection. I think that some paragraph should also be included in this 154th Article, which would at least prohibit Slovenian operators from using programs and applications that would allow for the arbitrary introduction of phone numbers from which SMS messages are sent. It is clear to me that this law cannot prevent this for all providers outside the borders, outside Slovenia, because it is simply not possible, but at least for Slovenian operators we should do this. The next thing I'm going to do is Article 124. Article 124 refers to the average transmission of speeds or to determine how fast the internet should be based on existing connections, based on existing users. What does that theoretically mean? On the one hand, we have rural areas, on the other hand, we have urban areas. You know, in rural areas, internet connections are bad, they're almost gone, urbans have good internet connections. When we determine an average transmission rate, this would likely mean or would mean that it would be the most rural to be acquired by such a provision, since this law would determine the speed that the operator is obliged to provide. Since I come from the countryside, I like this provision very much because it will mean some commitment, some requirement for operators to build a communications network in the countryside, but at the same time I have to point out another aspect or another consequence of this, which is that the construction of the network costs money and resources. But you know who builds most of the networks in Slovenia – this very state-owned company called Telekom. I am not defending anyone, as I said, but Article 124 seems particularly in the interest of the countryside – and it is good – and of course it will have certain financial implications for all operators operating in Slovenia. So much for a little while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u23	Mag. Majda Potter. Behind her is Mrs. Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with a fellow Member, Members and Members of Parliament! When we are dealing with the Law on Electronic Communications, this extremely extensive text, which, I must admit, is very difficult to deal with because it is a technical law, but I must point out some of my introductory concerns. The discussion was that, although it seemed at first that the law was fully harmonised, because of the threat that hangs over it, the payment of the penalty went to the government uncoordinated. I think I know the law. I must admit that I have not forgotten that the largest government party in the previous term has sometimes forgotten such a threat and has also blocked or not agreed to the adoption of any law, even though it was said to be a threat arising from the decisions of the European Union because of non-compliance with European directives. However, when transposing European directives, I would say that we should be a little more careful than we are, and sometimes some matter that has been transposed quickly can also be bad. Sometimes, just because of the scope and complexity of matter, we may not be able to deal with such a thing as ACTA, or, for example, what was a recent consideration of the new broadband directives when Slovenia did not make a reservation, even though we are then in the debate because I dared to ask something, but we found that all things are not so precisely defined and it would be right for Slovenia to make a reservation. So much for this at this principled level as regards the relationship between Slovenia and the European Union. Now to another, including a general opinion. 128 different worlds of agencies and anything else have been or have been disbanded, replaced, reorganized — however this law introduces — as a special quality is seen here in this law — a new chapter on the agency that is being re-appointed, which is being regulated, but here I am being asked some other questions. [[...]] In all this strong effort to save money, we will now rename the agency, which also means new papers, new organisational changes, new bodies and so on. Here I specifically ask the Minister a question, [[Incomprehensible]] I have read to the minister for the last time what he believes about the comments of the Electronic Communications Council, which points out that this law, with the solutions it brings, does not provide sufficient neutrality and independence for the Agency, as it should be done under the directive and according to the tasks it performs. Why am I asking that in particular? Because I find that at any time we need to provide independence, neutrality, strict expertise and more to an authority with important powers, we are always having problems in our current mandate. I am therefore interested in what the Minister thinks about the comments of the E-communications Council, which also has some concrete proposals on what the law should change if we want to improve the work of the Agency. In fact, this chapter, I think that chapter 14 of the law dealing with the work of the agency should – because, as a chapter with the number of articles, it has brought in a number of improvements and innovations in more detail. I would therefore only like to hear the answer to this question myself, just as I would like to hear the Minister's definition of other comments, which the professional and interested public has addressed to Members and Members after two years of this law, I suppose I do not know how many times it has been discussed with the interested and professional public, but questions remain open. Of course, I also think that, for the opinion of the Group of Social Democrats in determining whether we believe that the law that we have received to deal with is appropriate for further consideration, that it is right to say that it is not in our opinion; because it contains a controversial provision, which is also pointed out by the information officer, and it is free to speak about the fact that the largest group of Members, the government, is so warned and announced that it will eliminate it. But I'm sorry, we've just had a preliminary discussion, in the previous debate, including from the government party, we've heard that they don't think there's anything at stake about it. What's it gonna do now? I get particularly sensitive when someone tells me that we all have one opinion, and I see things differently because I know that evidence has been eliminated because security intelligence has acquired them in another country – this detail is also very important! I am more interested in how the rule of law works – do we really have enough quality and have everything so laid down that justice and justice are guaranteed? In particular, I cannot agree with someone speaking to me in the National Assembly to exaggerate human rights. Who will be the one to decide where to overdo human rights? I do not want politics to decide when human rights are exaggerated. In particular, the policy of that party, which has, in its public statements so far, proved on numerous occasions that it does not take human rights as a binding fact and does not respect the provisions of the Constitution relating to equality before the law. I will therefore do the same as the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u25	Mrs. Kristina Valenčič, for her Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. The bill is a successful upgrade to the currently in force Law on Electronic Communications, which requires new changes, new adjustments due to the extremely intensive and rapid development of information technologies. These changes are both necessary for the implementation of the EU directives and, in particular, for new possibilities for the further development of information technologies. Technologies are the ones that drive the world, spread the boundaries of the present and follow us at every turn. Today we find it hard to imagine how to spend a day without using mobile phones, television, the Internet, social networks, a bunch of online services that we have available. We are probably all united in this, that the very area of electronic communications offers many opportunities for new services, new development, new jobs of great utility, as well as opportunities to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. The basis for all of this is, of course, a high-quality broadband network across Slovenia, which will allow the introduction of all these modern technologies. In this segment, projects are implemented intensively, including with the help of European funds. The goal of the strategy for the development of broadband networks in Slovenia, which was adopted in 2008 and concluded this year, is to provide broadband connections for all citizens throughout our country by 2013. And that is what all efforts must really be focused on, both by the state and by the local communities. I would like to touch a few more areas of electronic commerce myself. I am sure that we have fallen asleep in public administration in this area. Much progress was made between 2007 and 2009, when numerous successful projects were carried out: e-government portal, ISPO, e-vem, etc. But if we look at the banking sector, we can actually see real progress there, because there is virtually no service that we could not provide using modern electronic technologies. I see for myself the area of electronic commerce, information technology in public administration also as a great opportunity to rationalise business and to take a step closer to our citizens, final users. Unfortunately, however, the development of e-government and electronic public services, as I said before, has virtually stopped. We have been waiting for years to upgrade the state eGovernment portal in the direction of supporting procedures, life events, interactive forms, and this has not yet happened. Moreover, we are putting new bureaucratic obstacles to complicated roles, such as the exercise of rights from public funds. Let me remind you, already in 2000, an e-commerce law was passed, an electronic signature that evenled the physical signature with electronic signatures. 12 years after the adoption of this law, the public administration is still very far from comprehensive electronic commerce. As in other areas, also in the field of electronic communications and electronic commerce, the problem is not in inadequate legislation, but in implementing it. We have modern legislation. With this bill, we are still building this up. It is therefore high time that we also make use of this in practice. I will, of course, support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u27	Replica mags. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u28	I would like to replicate to my colleague, Mrs Majdi Potrata, because I think she has completely misunderstood my debate and made even a drama of how someone in Parliament can say that sometimes with human rights is being exaggerated. I have made it very clear that when we talk about human rights, we have human rights on the one hand and security on the other. These two things are directly related and affect one another — one way or another. In order to make the matter very clear, I will explain on a case-by-case basis. If your cell phone is stolen and you're asking the police to look for this cell phone by tracking it down, they'll tell you that it's disproportionate and excessive interference with individual privacy. So the human rights of whoever stole your cell phone over your human rights that your phone was stolen. These are the kind of cases I'm talking about. Sometimes we go too far with these things. That's what I was talking about and nothing else. I think that those references about our client, as they were supposed to be, were completely unnecessary, Mrs. Potrata.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u29	Mr. Bevk alone has the floor, followed by Mrs. Tamara Vont.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! In the Resolution on Regulatory Activities, we have stated that a clear and consistent rule of law is a condition for its good functioning; citizens are comprehensible, easily enforceable and as sustainable as possible rules strengthen confidence in the rule of law and ensure respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms. I advocate adopting good laws in our country and amending them as few as possible. Unfortunately, the practice is completely different. We change the laws and supplement them like we do on a liquid tape. Almost every term, not just once, but several times, we changed a certain legal matter. The Law on Electronic Communications is no exception. My ideal is to adopt laws that would be valid for at least ten or twenty years. This would allow for transparent and clear legislation in the country. Yesterday, in the Ljubljana Court of Justice, even the fact that even prosecutors can no longer follow the constant changes in legislation, let alone citizens and citizens. By the way, it changes or overlooks a provision in an important law that counts for hundreds or thousands of articles. If we constantly amend this legislation, even experts can no longer follow it. Let's look at this Law on Electronic Communications. It was adopted in 2004 and then amended in 2006, in 2009 for the third time, we now have a whole bunch of these directives of the European Union and finally the European Commission launched a judicial dispute against Slovenia in May this year at the Court of Justice of the European Union because it has not yet adopted in its legislation a new regulatory framework on telecommunications, which it should have done a year and a half ago. As it was said, Slovenia was served on 10 September this year, and Slovenia is facing a daily penalty of more than 13,000 euros due to the delay. This Resolution on Regulatory Activities should also apply to the bodies of the European Union, as Directives of the European Union follow each other from month to year, and countries are having difficulty following all these many amendments. But I wonder if everything is really that important. And then when we coordinate our national legislation with the European directives, by the way, we change something else for our domestic daily needs, and this is precisely 166th or seventh paragraph, when police and some other security authorities, including Sova, can without a court order and only by written request from mobile operators require data on the owner of the telecommunications connection, which is contrary to Article 37 of the Constitution, which speaks of the protection of the confidentiality of letters and others, as the information officer has also pointed out. Of course, it is difficult to follow all these many changes. I'll probably abstain from this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u31	Procedural mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. I know that under Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure, those who ask for a replica must receive a word immediately. However, I do not recall from the past parliamentary practice that someone would get the word for the replica after the next debate, especially when he was not present in the Chamber. While the text of the Rules of Procedure in this place is not accurate enough to define it. But look, I think we should define because the gentleman who replicated to me ran into the hall, replicated and then left after the replica. Although I do not think that in any way proved that I misunderstood him, because the context was very broad and the context was also linked to the court's decision yesterday, which can be extended to a lot of things. But, anyway: but I would warn you that so far the parliamentary practice of replica has not been allowed under such circumstances. I didn't want to react hysterically right after that, but I think it would be good to warn you that this is an unusual practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u33	Thank you. I myself have been in a slight dilemma, but it is true that Article 70 does not say anything about the fact that the replica should follow directly the debate to which the Member replicates. All he says is that every debater has the right to reply to the debate of another debater and that the chairman gives him his word as soon as he requests it. It is a little unusual, yes, if there are other discussions, so we will have to talk about this a little bit more. Thanks for the heads-up. Let's move on. Mrs. Tamara Vont has the floor, then the mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Good thing I don't have to replicate anything about yesterday's debate. I think we really need to make some arrangements here. In short, no law is eternal, and the laws governing this extremely dynamic area, which is full of changes, are much less. That is why I also believe that there have been so many changes and there will probably be more. But this does not mean, of course, that these changes or all of this development, which requires amending certain provisions of legislation, must be seen as an opportunity for any abuse. Therefore, the proposal contains a number of good solutions, in particular in order to protect users of electronic communications, this must be recognised. The alignment was long, we've heard it a few times, two years. To the Minister, or to those of you who have brought this law to life, to this point where it now lives, I only resent that it is – I believe that it happened after the accident as much as any other law, but that you pushed a provision in the law that you did not harmonise it and was not the subject of a broad debate, which I do not think is the best. Of course, we all know, and today we will hear several more times that this is the provision of Article 166, paragraph 7. I'm not even gonna read it again, because we all know what we're talking about. Indeed, in this case, it is indeed a serious interference with the communication privacy of an individual or, as we have already heard, a reduction in the criteria for the constitutionally protected right to communication privacy. I have a very simple question. The debate has already been something about it, and it is likely that there will be more – that I will now somehow lean on the media, although then I would rather do something else, but from the media it was heard that you would withdraw this provision. Then I would like to know if you will stick to the agreement to withdraw this provision, just as you said you provided the information officer. In fact, the door to the private space of each individual, we are probably all aware of that, is already open to the track anyway. I really don't see the need for us to put an invitation on that door: “Here you are, come in, just as you please! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u35	The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin, followed by Mr. Happy Meh. Mr. Vogrin is not in the hall. Mr. Meh, then Mr. Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u36	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Perhaps my discussion will displease and may not be understood, but I must also say a few things on behalf of the Vice-President of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, although none of these functions were intended, about what we discussed on behalf of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. First of all, the European Commission's action should not affect the quality of the law's solutions. I think it's right that he's going into procedure and that we're going to make good decisions. Article 166 should also not prevail over all other debates on this law, since it will have to be decided whether freedom or in some way but the control that should be discussed. I think that today, actually, I would only talk about the two tasks of the Commission and, of course, the security and intelligence services. First: Are the security and intelligence services and the police and, of course, all working together successfully to protect the country, and what must we do about it? And secondly, do security and intelligence services respect legislation, the Constitution and are human rights violated? The task of the Commission is both, the commission's task is to see whether security intelligence services can work and whether they violate human rights. For this reason, in the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services as an interested working body, we considered the draft Law on Electronic Communications in Pre-readance before this treatment started, in particular chapters 12 and 13, namely the Law on Electronic Communications. We wanted to do this before this law was discussed at a meeting of the National Assembly. We have also invited all future users of these provisions to the Commission, i.e. representatives of the Government and all others who will have to work under this law. It is the processing of personal data and storage, to which it also belongs, Article 166. In particular, ladies and gentlemen, the transmission of information on the contracting authority of electronic communications connection on the basis of the written request of the State authority, in accordance with the provisions of Article 149 of this Law, is not considered to be an transmission of traffic data to be recorded in two laws, namely, the Criminal Procedure Act, in the second paragraph of Article 24b, and the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency Act. So these two provisions of the law, which already exist, today only appear in the Law on Electronic Communications. For this reason, my personal opinion – of course, I do not yet have the position of the Commission – is that it would be right for this seventh paragraph of Article 166 to be in law, since the information on the owner would facilitate the work of the police, as well as others who use this law, in order to make it easier for them to obtain the information they need in their investigations and also to carry out their task. Today, we can talk about whether this seventh paragraph violates human rights or not. Of course, it is a question of whether we trust the security and intelligence services and the police who use it and whether we have effective control. If we do not have effective control, then everything is free and any provision would already be, if there is no such control, then we should only be concerned that human rights are not violated. Let me also point out once again what special warnings have been given by the co-workers or those present on the committee. It has happened, not once, that they have not received from the prosecution a permit to control and to carry out their work. This way they cannot do their job to oversee someone who, in the final stage, may endanger the security of the country, the security of citizens and citizens, and in the final stage may also come to the excesses that we have witnessed in a far or wide area. It would therefore be right to trust the police and security intelligence services and to monitor them very successfully, and this task should be fully carried out by the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services and by others. Therefore, the members and members of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission should participate in the Commission, and this Commission should have a special task in order to be able to assert with certainty the two: that we have adequate protection for our country and for citizens and citizens from those who kill, steal and do anything else, and that human rights are not violated. At a time when something happens to us, when something happens to us personally, when something has been done to someone in our immediate vicinity, we say that the police have done bad, and we say that other jobs have been bad. Of course, before that, we did not guarantee everything that needed to be done so that our services could do the same. In addition, a comment on Article 168 of the draft law, namely that it would be appropriate for the report to be forwarded to the Ministry of Justice or the competent Ministry, which should be sent to the European Commission without delay, to be received by the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Board. Of course, I cannot support the position of our parliamentary group as regards Article 166, paragraph 7, because I think it is appropriate to allow operational work for all the authorities concerned with our security, and therefore it is also written in this law, which ensures that operators are ordered to do so. In some cases, operators have refused to provide information about the owner of the electronic address or address book, but the authorities would need it. That is why I think it would be right to continue in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u37	Mr. Joseph Horvath, and then Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister with co-worker! I must say that my debate will be very general, because we are considering a new law on electronic communications at first reading. I believe that in the parliamentary procedure, the law will be improved – some of whom my colleagues and fellow Member Group have already talked about – and I do not mind that this law is often changing, as we are experiencing inconceivable development in this area. What electronic communications will be in 10 years' time, what we will have in the field of apps, that no one is sure to discuss or give exact answers today. The law is good, especially for two reasons; for the first time, we need it for further development of electronic communications, and in particular for the purpose of stimulating investment in this area in the field of electronic communications. In the countryside, more precisely in Prekmurje, Slovenian villages received electricity in the second half of the 50th century. This is not so important at the moment, more importantly, that in a circle of technical people who may have been somewhat familiar with ICT, we put on information and communication technologies in the 1990s an thesis; that the importance of rural electricity in the 1950s today is information and communication technologies. It may seem to someone to be attracted to the hair, but a slight thought confirms this thesis. I am pleased – and we have already talked a lot today about us in the European area – and I expect the new financial framework, the new seven-year financial framework 2014-2020 of the European Union, to devote additional resources to the Connecting Europe Facility. This is not only about transport infrastructure in the classical sense, but also about transport infrastructure through which information is flowed or more accurately "be" or "byto". In this respect, I cannot help but express my disappointment once again at the conduct of former Minister Golobic, who, for unexplained reasons, has brutally rejected the invitation of the consortium of six Prekmurje municipalities that have run for the investment of the broadband network in the previous term. In this respect, I want to find good investors in Slovenia, too, in order to significantly improve this area. When I have already talked about the European financial framework for the next seven years, allow some thought only on the Digital Agenda for Europe, which aims to ensure that a single European digital market, based on fast and ultra-fast internet connections and interoperable applications, will bring lasting economic and social benefits. In March 2010, the European Commission launched the Europe 2020 Strategy – a strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, which acts as a successor to the Treaty of Lisbon, to enable the European Union to come out of the crisis and to prepare the European Union economy for the challenges of the next decade. As part of this strategy, the Digital Agenda is one of the seven flagship initiatives of the Europe 2020 strategy and is intended to determine the key role that the use of information and communication technologies will have to play if Europe wants to achieve its 2020 objectives – of course, when I speak of Europe, I also think of Slovenia. Perhaps there is one information here that confirms the critical importance of electronic communications, and this is that global information doubles every two years. That's not data, that's information! Every two years they double from the textbooks we read that information is an essential element in the human decision-making process. [[...]] The Digital Agenda sets high targets for broadband, and by 2013 all citizens of the European Union are expected to have basic broadband access to the Internet and by 2020 broadband access at the rate of thirty megabits per second. Of this, at least half of European households should be ordered at the rate of one hundred megabits per second – at least half of European households! Those measures should also be accompanied by uniform regulatory approaches and their effective implementation. This is supposed to make a strong contribution to the economic growth of the European Union and the benefits of the digital age should be enjoyed by the whole society. Maybe just a word about safety. In the Group of Members, we are convinced that the safety of internet applications or access to internet applications is primarily a matter for education and education. Internet applications are now accessible to virtually all users and we think that it is necessary to start talking about harmful Internet applications that, as we all know, are accessible to minors and children in the family. This is simple software or software, at least at this point, which is not enough to limit, unless, of course, we pay this bill, that we will always present ourselves, who we are when we approach internet applications. I have to tell the government or, here in particular, I trust Minister Gigi Turk. I trust this marriage, and last but not least, it is a minister who deals with these electronic communications and Internet applications practically from his growing youth, and I am sure that they will ultimately be the right solution for Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u39	Mag. Borut Ambrožič, then Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello, everyone! The main question raised today by quite a few forerunners is whether, by means of this paragraph, paragraph 7 of Article 166 of the proposed law, a violation of fundamental human rights may also be possible. We are talking about acquiring the identity of useful communication information only on the basis of a written request from the police. The basic question that has been raised today is also whether we can trust that we want to trust the authorities that we trust with our security — personally, I would like to affirm that I believe in good rather than bad. The concerns expressed by the information officer at the time of the review of the proposed law are also relevant. We must also not overlook the fact that there is a European regulation in preparation, which will otherwise regulate this area in its entirety. Otherwise, due to the enormous professional work involved and coordination at this stage, the law is appropriate and, in principle, I support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u41	Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor, then Mrs. Polonca Komar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u42	Thank you very much. In my debate, even in view of the lack of time for our Group of Members, I would particularly like to touch on this disputed article. For as far as content is concerned, it is clear that the amended provisions of the European order are being transposed into the domestic legal order and much cannot be debated here. I would say, however, that this law, unlike many of the laws we receive in the National Assembly in this mandate, marks an almost exemplary procedure that took into account practically all the requirements, including the Resolution on Regulatory Activities, and has indeed been properly discussed in or before the legislative process in the Government, even a public debate with stakeholders, which is certainly commendable. What is particularly worrying about the Group of Positive Slovenia in this context is that this controversial provision we are talking about came into this long-coordinated and prepared law at the last moment, and this – as a matter of fact – comes out clearly at the initiative of the Ministry of the Interior and the Soviet Union. The views of the Commissioner, Mrs Natasha Pirc, and her office must definitely be taken seriously. This is not about the findings that this office or she has placed outside its jurisdiction. This is about Mrs Pirz and her work doing her job exemplaryly and pointing to some provision, some arrangement that was strangely and at the last moment snuck into, as I said, a fairly well-prepared law. I think it is particularly commendable that we have services in Slovenia that carry out their work in such a way that, in an appropriate manner, they, as they say, draw attention, within their competences, when they see anomalies belonging to their work areas. That this provision for an authorising officer covering this area is disputed is clear from all the letters and from all the discussions we have received so far. The seriousness of its observations and the importance of this issue are also illustrated by the fact that, should the law be adopted in its current form, the Ombudsman will initiate an administrative dispute. That is why I think that we should give a certain weight to this debate, but not just at the same time debate whether security is before or after human rights, while also doing some strange parallels with some criminal procedure that has no connection in this sense. In fact, the Law on Electronic Communications is, unfortunately, not intended to hunt criminals. And here I see another problem with this marriage. If a provision is similar to that of previous debaters contained in the Criminal Procedure Act and the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency Act, this is, of course, correct. This is legislation where human rights interventions must be brought together, in a way that is transparent and that anyone who wants to know about this area can look into the legislation that covers this area logically and be taught about it. That is why I also feel that such an important provision is so quick to enter into a law that is also controversial from this point of view. Why electronic communications are important has already been said. I would also point out that we are practically living at a time when all and most of our communication is going along this path. Therefore, special caution is needed here, and it is therefore important to be careful that all regulation in different laws does not go too far with human rights. This is the last point I would like to point out, which has already been highlighted many times by Positive Slovenia in past debates relating to various laws. It is not that the individual solutions proposed by this government are self-disputed. Many times it's not like that. But when you look at the whole regulation in different laws — the law on police, the regulation on NPUs, then the regulation of the law on electronic communication — you can give birth to the idea that it is a tendency that may be contrary to human rights because it is too much of a standard that has been enforced in history. And of course we can all agree that we need to provide the police and the Slovenian Intelligence Agency with opportunities for our work. However, in the past – not in Slovenia – this is what we say in general, in Europe, around the world – standards have been established on who permits the most important interventions; and this cannot be the police itself. The police alone cannot decide to intervene in such an important way in electronic communications, either in this case to identify the owner, in another case to read the contents, etc., that the police do so on the basis of a written provision. This is an extensive intervention that too wide opens the door to our privacy. Therefore, in Positive Slovenia, we also believe the words of the largest government party that this provision will be withdrawn further, we are surprised by the words of another coalition partner, who, despite these assurances and also the guarantees of the Civil Code that they do not support these provisions, has raised doubts that this provision would be withdrawn and we hope that the administrative dispute raised by the authorising officer with regard to this provision will not be necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u43	Mrs. Polonca Komar, then Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, I would like to highlight my debate on how important the area of our lives is governed by this law that we are discussing today. Indeed, the indicators for the development of electronic communications in Slovenia show the following. The number of SMS messages sent in 2011 reached almost a billion and a half. Almost 4 million text messages were sent a day. On average, one user sent 693 SMS messages. The number of these messages increased by 18% compared to 2010 and by 51% compared to 2009. In 2011, 32 million MMS messages were sent. The number of these messages increased by 16% compared to 2010 and 56% compared to 2009. More than 2 billion outgoing calls were recorded from the mobile phone network. Mobile phone users spoke for more than 10 million minutes a day. That means, every average 29 hours. Fixed telephony users spoke for more than 3 million minutes a day. This is only part of the data that shows us how important electronic communication is in life and what this law actually brings to us consumers. In particular, it also gives us some new rights, such as the possibility of replacing a telephone operator in one day without changing the phone number or immediately informing about the theft of personal data online. The minimum set of ingredients to be included in each contracting contract concluded with the consumer operator is newly established. The maximum initial commitment period for contracting contracts is also set. Let me also mention that the emergency numbers include a single European telephone number for the reporting of missing children – 116 000. However, in the field of digital radio and television distribution, a general act will provide guidance for the classification of programmes. This will be a useful arrangement for television viewers to make some order in the programming of cable networks. The proposal brings quite a few or many positive changes to the development of the telecommunications network in Slovenia, so I will also support it at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u45	Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, then Mrs. Maja Dimitrovski.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, respectable colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a very extensive, very difficult, difficult substance of the Law on Electronic Communications. I think it has 316 articles or how many, if I've reached the end right, and even though I'm a naturalist by profession, it's also a difficult material for me. This is in itself a witness, I think, because it is good to know that most of you, who with some direct production, with some development of some products have never had any connection – I have been in this for twenty years – to see how much knowledge it takes to get a recapitulation that is as difficult as these engineers need to know and know. If a member of society who is a sociologist after education wanted to go through force, it would be two years of FDV — just for this law. So I must say that this is an extremely important area, but today this debate is concentrated in two articles: one is paragraph 166, paragraph seven. For when we sat together for the first time as a coalition, we practically decided very uniformly that this matter would not exist in this law and that we were against the extension of any jurisdiction, it was the criminal service, and the Owl, which could thus come to these matters, which we sometimes have to look at from another point of view. I'm telling you, I was chairman of the Intelligence Supervisory Commission for the years 2000-2004. It was also then that one amendment to this CAP, the Criminal Procedure Act, which, as the Minister had previously said, was last amended in 2011 under the previous government. It was then changing, and this 149th article – I think even article 150 – in connection with the so-called "pots", these are the special methods and means that the police can use. At that time, in preparation for changes to the law, the then - born SOVA and the then criminalist service and the then - day services also had much greater ambitions. This is always on the sidelines, these services also feel professionally restricted, ensuring that they can do more in the pursuit of crime and all that. Of course, there is always a need to strike a balance between the actual enjoyment of human rights – at least in our party we have always made restrictive decisions and we were so when we were in opposition. At that time, some colleagues were sitting in Parliament, Mr Jakič, Mr Kavtičnik, in a party or government that suggested extending this. I also agree that we have to be restrictive, because these jobs always itch. Some individuals are such that they could be scratched by their fingers and abuse the provisions, even if they were very clearly written, and they would go beyond the boundaries of privacy and what is allowed. So I urge you not to talk about how the current power will abuse everything with crosses and thievings. There is nothing new about the fact that a department within the government has indicated such a tendency. It's always there. At the same time, we are also consistent in not allowing this to happen, even at the cost of our services sometimes being less efficient and less operational. For for me, the problem is, especially after yesterday, especially our judiciary, because it does not even know and does not want to propose such provisions as could effectively prosecute me, and then the judiciary would not be limited in such a way. These instincts are not in there, and we, in some ways, legalized drug trafficking in Slovenia yesterday. Other parts of this law are also extremely important, as communication neutrality increases competition and I do not know what is happening in this extensive area of electronic communications, which is the everyday part of every citizen, every capable person. For this reason, we need to bring this law to an end so that we do not receive these severe penalties from the European Union. However, I must say here when a colleague from the SD said earlier that the current power in the previous term as an opposition party did not respect the situation when it threatened to do so. I don't think that's true. We have been very cooperative, but, of course, the previous government did not want us in this partnership, so that within the partnership the opposition could also discuss and usefully advise the authorities of the day and break this practice, which was from the previous mandate. Colleague Potróta said that we were being coaxed, and she protested, while her representative said that they would oppose the law and that they would object. So, they're criticizing bargaining, but they're going to continue with all the enthusiasm, with all the consequences, they're willing to go through the first reading, instead of the law going through the first reading, and then let's try those changes, the additions that are still necessary, because this is a huge matter, some things still have to be changed, but these political will, obviously, is not in the colleague's case, but I think that the colleague is more of an old left and that the whole left is not like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u47	Replica, mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u48	Thank you. I am 64 years old, and for every year of my life, I have had to work hard, and I am very pleased that I have been given so much life. I hope, given the genetic material I have, I'll live for a while. Now, if it were Dr Turk, then I'd have a few comments on the language of the esteemed Mr Jerovsk, but it doesn't seem to be working, but I'm going to say a concrete case now. I don't guess, I just try to have facts after what I'm saying. In the previous term, we have adopted a law on media that has not expired the first reading, let us leave now why and how it was also linked to the introduction or adoption of directives, in compliance with directives. Then we quickly changed the Broadcasting Act. I suggest to my respectable colleague Jerovšek that he go look at the vote, and he will see what I am talking about. You voted against it! And it was also a European punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u49	The word is from colleague Maja Dimitrovski. Then Mr. Janez Fishich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! In my presentation of the position, I was not offensive, but I was determined and keen to draw attention to a contentious provision which, following the warnings of the information officer, could have far-reaching consequences with regard to the protection of the privacy of citizens. At the moment, we are talking about a proposal for a law that still contains this disputed provision, so in the Group of the Positive Slovenia, we believe that citizens and citizens must be aware of the harmful consequences of the adoption of such a law. In our view, they have no human rights and should not have a price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u51	Mr. Tank is not in the hall. Mr. Michael Prevc has the floor. Then it's mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello again! As you have identified many speakers before me, this is a very important material that we accept, not least a very extensive material with many articles. I am pleased that the dominant opinion of more or less of all parliamentary groups is that this is such an important matter that it must be accepted as soon as possible, and that in fact we all find that we are already seriously behind the adoption of this law and that we can therefore also bear certain financial consequences, although we hope that this will not happen. I am also pleased that what has been said to be the Law on Electronic Communications, I will say that the widest coordination with the professional public, as well as with the many stakeholders involved in this law. I am convinced that the Minister, the current minister and, last but not least, the former, who has already begun this legislation, has invested a great deal of energy in the drafting of this law with his professional colleagues. So it seems to me that such and other observations as one of my colleagues today had to be heard about some will, a certain lowliness of mind, of some human tsunami so that such insults could be avoided in this case. It bothers me personally if in this national council, in this house, it seems to me, all too many such insults are used. In this case, they must not have been in place. Perhaps something else; I come from the countryside where there are still many so-called gray foxes, where we know well that coverage with broadband is still very poor on these so-called grey foxes. I see from the law that the law also improves this situation, because the law obliges an operator who has been selected to perform this universal telephone service to enable functional access to the Internet for all users at some low prices. This, in my opinion, creates significantly better conditions for improving the coverage of the broadband country. And maybe the last. In my own view, like most of the groups before me, I have indicated that this seventh paragraph of Article 166 is also at issue with us. Personally, I believe that the warnings given by certain state institutions should be heeded and, last but not least, respected. That is why my opinion, as well as the opinion of the parliamentary group – last but not least, is agreed by the competent minister – that this provision should be deleted. Once again, I will support this law, it seems very important to me, and I am sure that we can add some added value to it in the course of its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u53	Thank you very much. It's mag. Branko Grimes and then the minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u54	Thanks again for saying that. As I said at the outset, we will unitedly support the law in the SDS Group. There are many reasons for this. The first, which is certainly interesting for taxpayers, is the saving of their money to correct the time delay, the lost time of the previous government, which has not taken a timely action, which has not prepared legislative changes in this area in a timely manner, in order to adopt the relevant European directives into our legislation and therefore we have already met with very clear requirements and also with warnings about what this means in practice if we do not adopt an appropriate law without delay. From this point of view, the law is good, it is comparable to that of the European Union, and it fully means the fulfilment of the European Union's requirements that its fundamental legal principles in this area should also be translated into our domestic legislation. For this reason, then, the law must also be rushed. Not only is it necessary to accept it, but it must also be speeded up to prevent harmful consequences – you know that penalties of the European Union, if they are late or for other reasons not accepted in time, reach the value of a medium-class car on a day. This is said to be a law vote from the responsibility of taxpayers. The second reason I personally consider to be a special value is that the law is a step ahead of others, that in some way Slovenia can, for a long time in one area, be an example to other countries, and this is that it enforces the law, by which all transport, regardless of who has it, what contains it, on the Internet, will be equivalent. Therefore, from this point of view, it preserves the Internet as a space of complete freedom, as a space of free movement of knowledge, ideas such as the place where the areas of freedom and other human rights are consistently respected and respected. I think that's already the reason you should weigh it in front of everyone else, even those who still hesitate to vote for this law. As a special quality of this law, this provision is also supported by the Pirate Party of Slovenia in its letter. From this point of view, I would suggest that you reconsider your decisions. Interestingly, in a large part, fortunately not all but some opposition groups, the debate took place as if he had taken the child to the supermarket and he had seen an advertisement for a toy earlier and then explained to him that the toy was no longer on the market because it had been withdrawn from production, he would have thrown himself on the floor and kept banging his fists on the floor, that he wanted to have this toy because he would like to have it so badly with that toy — but he did! I think it is a shame that this is the way the debate is going on and there is no excuse for it. The law is important in many respects, some of which I have already listed, and on the other hand, by giving too much weight to a provision that has in fact just determined another law, it carries too much weight into this law. Why am I saying she didn't apologize? Because it's not about revealing anything here today, it's about changing my mind. In the SDS Group, we have already given a significant number of days ago a notice to the public that we will delete this provision completely. It is clear, however, that for systemic reasons it is better that these things are regulated by the law governing the area of Owl or those services that deal with these matters, that these things are truly systemically regulated. This provision is virtually gone, so all this intense debate is quite similar to that of a child who is throwing himself on the ground in a store and hitting on the ground because he wants that toy that is no longer for sale. There are other reasons why this law is worthy of adoption. As I said, in this provision, when it opens up the internet space, when it specifically stipulates that all protocols are the same, that they are equal to all content, that they must be treated equally within the Internet, so that they are not allowed to change the speed of individual things, this law is an example to others, and in some respect it follows other examples and carries them into our space. I think that's very good. In the United States of America, as well as in some European countries, legislation has long been in force that prevents cable television providers or cable providers from freely changing the position of individual television stations on the cable every day and as it may seem to them. Not only is this for users – by the way, because Slovenians and Slovenians feel on their own every day, because this is unfortunately still happening in us – but not only is this very uncomfortable for users, but it can also have a significant impact on the viewing of individual televisions or even on their existence. After all, if people are taught that some television is in a position, and it depends on the income derived from ratings, then this situation changes continuously, of course, the ratings fall, thus reducing the income of this television, and in this way it can even endanger the existence of a particular media in a particular space, particularly in Slovenia, where we are already facing the problem of being relatively small. Here every medium fights for survival, here every new medium is extremely difficult to implement because this space is relatively small. This makes it necessary to be more careful in these matters. This is also the reason why I claim that it is worth voting for this law because it is in the interests of users and is also in the interest of enriching the media space; to allow a fair competition to allow the free movement of information to enable indeed information about any area of social life, any relevant information, to be illuminated with different values of view, to be accessible to everyone in an easy way. It is only then that the constitutional provisions which give rise to the constitutional right to inform each individual and thus his or her ability to participate in the management of public affairs will be fully respected.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word is from the Secretary of State, Dr. Giga Turk. The replica of Mrs. Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Chairman. Mr Grims misinterpreted our debate, me and some others, as squeezing a child in connection with this disputed provision. I would only explain to you, Mr Grims, that your most loyal coalition partner is in the debate before you, unfortunately you were not present, expressed the view that this provision should remain, which has somewhat disturbed us, given your claim that these provisions are virtually gone. I hope you understand the difficulties of us, on this side, which we have already repeatedly received assurances from your party and your partners that something will be withdrawn, even in the transfer of the prosecution, it has been promised that there will be an amendment, and this has not happened. Therefore, allow us to discuss the dilemmas that arise with regard to a particular arrangement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word is from the Secretary of State, Dr. Giga Turk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I will try to answer some of the substantive questions that have arisen; however, I am pleased to note that there have been few concrete substantive comments, and I also take this as a tribute to our ministry, including the Director of the Information Society, led by my colleague Marjan Turk, who is here with me and on this occasion I also thank him for the good work he has done and, for, it has been commended, for example, the public debate on this law was also held. On this occasion, I should also like to thank the Council for Electronic Communications and Information Commissioners, who have worked constructively with very good comments in the process of drafting this law. With regard to the independence of Apek, however, its independence was guaranteed at the time of the last amendment of this law by ZEKom-C. This independence is not disputed, and the independence of an agency has its drawbacks. We received statistics yesterday, for example, suggesting that Slovenia is the forerunner in Europe after the exploitation of limited natural goods called electromagnetic spectrum. Also largely because Apek does not list frequencies, the Internet, telephony, television, and so on is happening on these frequencies. Both you and me and the government as well as Parliament have very limited options, we have limited opportunities to motivate the Apek to put this natural good into the service of the economy or the citizens. The comments also related to the abandonment of public sector wage systems by employees in Apec, which is not actually acceptable, and the agencies are like any other. The finance ministry, the Ministry of Public Administration, also objected. Fears of strengthening an agency to make this agency bigger – our Apek is among the smallest, if not the smallest, agency among such agencies in Europe, but financed not by the state budget, but financed by industry, so that the costs will not arise. Mr Tonin spoke of Article 154 or 155. I think that the 155th article that talks about tracking malicious calls solves some of this problem that you're talking about. I thank Mr Meh for a very sober debate. Article 166, paragraph 7, and this search for a balance between rights and security is also a complex subject, without going quickly in one direction and another. I am confident that this debate will be carried out by the National Election in a qualitative manner, both by the coalition debates and by some of the opposition's debates, which strengthen me in this conviction. As an engineer, I was also very pleased with the discussions of my colleague Jerovšek, who pointed out the importance of engineering knowledge in this area and how much of it is an engineering or technical, not so much a legal topic. A number of other questions were answered either in my previous debate or by other Members, so I would not repeat myself. I'd like to thank Mr. Horvath for his trust. We have really tried to prepare a modern law, a law that will be modern from the point of view of the development of services. There are increasingly high-speed views on the Internet, both on the Wi-Fi and on the wireless network, which will include modern concepts concerning the neutrality of the Internet regarding cookies relating to privacy. I repeat, in your debates, including by the opposition, I have not observed any major conceptual problems with this law, you have pointed out some things that can be regulated in the amendment procedure, so I suggest you once again consider that this law is a suitable basis for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u59	It's a replica. Who wants a replica? Mag. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u60	Thank you, Mr. Secretary for your answer. I know that his answer also went mainly to the way Apek was doing his work, but I actually asked him for an opinion which was forwarded by the Council for Electronic Communications. In particular, it seems to me that it is an important provision that talks about the public or about the public consultation on the Agency's work programme and thinks that then our views would be closer than they appear at first sight, because it is precisely that, with the current record and with the current solutions, we could not actually do so. It is true, however, that the SEC has a general comment that the law does not pay enough attention to the independence of the Agency and that it also has a proposal to replace an individual management body with a collective body. These are purely concrete proposals that could also be discussed. I did not place these discussions in such a way as to evaluate the work of Apec in any way, I did not intend to do so, Mr Minister, in order to define how Apek is now performing its function, but only how this is proposed in these comments, because, as far as I can see, the comments are also reasoned with the views of the international institutions. I understand that you can have a very different view of this, but once again, maybe we got it wrong, I didn't appreciate the present part of Apec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u61	Thank you very much. With this, we have exhausted the list of debaters. I ask if, on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss, given that time is still available. I'm guessing yes, so I'm opening a list of discussers. Please sign up. Representative of the Government, or would you like to discuss it in this section? [[...]] Then raise your hand. Okay. Each debater has 5 minutes at his disposal. Mr. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u62	In this part of the debate, however, I would like to react to some of the observations from the biggest government party, which in my opinion has inappropriately characterized the debates of opposition Members. I must say that this debate was entirely cultural and very on a level, and if it is possible to exclude any implants from this average, these are the implants of the representatives of the largest coalition party; here is the case to point out Mr Grims and Mr Jerovsk. I think it is important that we regulate the technical aspects of things by law, but in many of the provisions of this law I see not only technical but very ethical pay. With its emergence, the Internet has opened up as a phenomenon a whole new field of debate on ethics, privacy, rights, the Internet as a space of freedom, as some like to say. I really believe in this Internet as a place of freedom. Already today, some Internet service providers - and Google - will monitor your habits, your choices, your search passwords, and in this regard will automatically adapt your browser behaviour and this same Google will provide you with content that, depending on your search passwords and the like, will provide you with in the next step. This means – how to put it: "that we are being tragic". Well, someone's already following us, even though it's very automated and let's hope without any bad intentions, but it's already happening. Of course, it is important for us to discuss, from a political point of view, the idea of the Internet as an area of freedom, not just a political perspective, but just a technical and engineering perspective. However, I think it was completely misunderstood that we were going to vote against the appropriateness of this law at this stage. I really don't believe the Slovenian Democratic Party. If Branko Grims thinks he's saying something and it's the law tomorrow, he's wrong: not in my eyes! I don't trust you, Mr Grims, I don't trust your client and according to public opinion polls, you like to refer to them, you don't trust most of the Slovenian public. I will complement yours with joy, I will be happy to agree that some of the provisions laid down in this law should be deleted, but I will believe you in this when we do so and then we will do it together. Until then, I am still defining the law as it is written, and despite some welcome things, despite some progress and a step forward, which is indisputable, to which the debate today has also drawn attention, but I must find that the law, such as this, is not suitable for further consideration. I know that the ruling coalition will vote on this law and that we will have the opportunity to correct it in the next phase, but as it is today, it does not have my voice. I would not want anyone to take this attitude as unconstructive, as Mr Jerovšek puts it, as destructive or anything like that. No! No! Such political states are not close to me, I am not using them, I am happy to support the good proposals of this government, but it is true that I have trouble finding them very difficult. Thus, Minister, despite the correct role you have played in most of the decrees of the novel, I must conclude that there is a provision that bothers me so much that I cannot confirm this law. Even with Apek, which is a substantive change, I believe, according to the minister's words, that sometimes it also interferes with the independence of institutions. We have also noticed this in some other procedure of this government, and it bothers us that you are disturbed. We believe that the independence of institutions needs to be built up, respected, strengthened, because that alone leads to an adequate balance between democratic power and the various branches of government. That's what I believe. Given that you're supposed to be a Democrat, I hope you believe that, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, there is no replica. I warn you that we are taking advantage of the rest of the time and that at this time you do not dispute with your fellow Members and fellow Members, given that no one can either replicate or respond to you in any other way. That's why I'm warning everyone that we're holding on to this. It's mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u64	Thank you. I'm sure now the well-respected forerunner felt divine. Mea West once said, "It's human to be wrong, but it makes you feel divine." I hope that you will be able to do so when, at the second stage of the hearing, this will determine a flight out of the law, as I said, then you will have so much human ethics as to say so much now that you will apologize, because you were now in error and you did not want to believe something that you should believe, because it is not only a decision by me personally, as you said, but a decision by a group that was then also subject to coalition coordination and is the conclusion of the coalition that this provision is to be deleted from the law. It is said that the whole debate in this part was at exactly the level I was talking about earlier. In the beginning, however, I stressed that it would be good not only to listen to each other, but also to want to hear each other, because now a huge amount of time has been spent talking about an article that has already been made meaningless in relation to those definitions that I was talking about, but everything else has been left behind. However, I firmly believe that there is room for further improvement in such an important law, given its scope. And perhaps if all of us were to focus on doing so, we could find another way to improve. Of course, we must also have the necessary knowledge in this regard. Some of you have now spoken as a revelation that it is already happening if I quote that there are so-called cookies or follow-up cookies, as they are commonly called. But you know, it's been real for 20 years. There are systems, search, tracking systems, and so on and so on, some search engines, as you yourself said, are now using this as a special additional technology. In short, it's nothing new under the sun. But so far, it hasn't responded properly. This law responds appropriately, and this is also the reason why this marriage is worthy of support — if, of course, we want to listen and hear what one says and what the other says. There are already two reasons that speak in favour of internet freedom, which is a value that makes the adoption of this law extremely positive and can be an example to other countries and is also necessary; one is the issue of regulating these cookies as you have warned yourself, and the other is the one that I have already mentioned at the beginning of this law to align all protocols at the legal level, to equalise all traffic on the Internet and thus to exclude in advance the possibility that someone, depending either on the amount of money or on some other criteria, would give priority to certain traffic on the Internet, but everything else should wait or be damaged. This, as it is said, would be the end of the freedom of the Internet in the most positive sense of the word that some of us in computer science have accepted since the beginning as a value. And we are also consistent in this, Mr Frangež, because if you have ever followed my debates, you know that I have always advocated that this should also be regulated at the constitutional level, that this would be extremely difficult to negotiate when it is also necessary to fight for these things in the international space. Because I firmly believe that appetites, when it comes to the Internet, are so great, the appetites of individuals, influential people, certain policies, different multinationals – that it will always be a space that will need a lot of attention to preserve those original qualities that we all accept and for which, as you said, you also fight. And then here, I think, we could look for the area of consensus. As I say, foreign policy should also be the area of consensus and fundamental development issues of the country of Slovenia if we want to take the step that would mean some new possibilities for further action. One small possibility, but not insignificant, is before us today – to jointly support this law, because it defends freedom of the Internet because it is a good starting point and at least two points it can even be an example to other countries, which we have not witnessed in Slovenia for a long time, and from this point of view I can only congratulate the applicants.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Richard Braniselj has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u66	Thank you, Vice President. As has already been seen in the presentation of the position, we support or wish to avoid this provision in Article 166 in the course of the legislative procedure. We agreed on that in the coalition, and we will insist on that later. However, I would also like to highlight the matter in some other way, more substantively. I personally agree that this provision does not fall under the Law on Electronic Communications, but it belongs to someone else where this provision has already been written. If you allow me, I will read to you Article 149, paragraph 3, of the Criminal Procedure Act: "If there are grounds to suspect that an offence has been committed or that an offence is being committed for which the perpetrator is being prosecuted under official responsibility, and it is necessary to obtain information on the owner or user of a particular means of communication for electronic communications which are not published in the subscribers' catalogues and on the time at which the asset was or is in use, the police may request the operator to contact her without the consent of the data subject." You know what to guess at the beginning is to warn you that something is not constitutional, it's possible that it's a little premature. However, the opinion of the information officer, as far as respect is concerned, is not a legal source in this country. The legal source is law and legal practice, the constitution and so on. It is true, however, that it is welcome, desirable, and urgent that we be extremely careful not to adopt an unconstitutional law. However, many times in the National Assembly have been said about this unconstitutionality, and many have also been bluffed. I went a little deeper, and I found the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia judgment, published on 6. Ten. In 2011, I-IPS-46/2011, which states so, and it is clear from this judgment that such a solution, such as in the Criminal Procedure Act, is not disputed or unconstitutional. I quote: "It is not possible to accept the argument that the order could only be issued when all the conditions laid down in Article 150 of the CAP are met, since in obtaining data on the transport of telephone communications at all and in the case at hand, it is not a single invasion of privacy. The measure under Article 150 of the CAP precisely for reasons of the intensity of interference with privacy lays down stricter conditions than otherwise required by a less profound intervention only in the transport of communications." The Supreme Court is separating here. Furthermore, on page three: "The rate of interference with privacy in the collection of phone calls is undoubtedly lower than in listening to phone calls." I only point out that we should be careful in these matters, and I do not think that it is our goal to create a police force, a repressive body that will be left without teeth, without mechanisms, and that in this direction we should actually be extremely careful about what human rights abuses are and what our national interest and public benefit are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u68	Let me draw attention to the work of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services and to the fact that those responsible for these security and intelligence services have warned us that they have, by virtue of the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act and also of the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Service Act, that is what Mr Braniselj has been talking about, the problems and the operators do not provide the information that the police and everyone else require in writing, as in these laws. This represented a signal light for us that warns that what is written in these two laws is not enough to be operational. From this point of view, the question of Article 166, paragraph 7, can be – not disputed – but may also be an additional problem at work and it would also be appropriate to listen to the report on what we, as a legislative body, can do to enable security and intelligence services to work as they should. So there is no dilemma as to whether human rights are human rights or not: human rights — yes. However, I believe that the person who is justified in reaching out to him in his privacy is suspected of having committed a crime or an act against the security of that State, of interfering with his personal right or of being wronged by his personal position. But in this case, we believe in the state, we believe in what is important to this country. On the other hand, we, the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, should be concerned that human rights are not actually violated. On the committee, we have already looked at a number of these documents with which these services are controlled, say, by individuals or groups. All these documents had everything that was necessary for this and what is written in the law and in our judgment so far — what we have done — have not been a violation of human rights. Of course, the problem is that we are still talking about the seventh paragraph, which is in law, and the prediction that this 7th article will not be in the next procedure in the law, and at this point the commitment to what has been said today can be such that we accept it — those who think that this 7th paragraph should not be. Personally, I think that the seventh paragraph does not interfere with the fact that it is in this law, and I simply ask what Mr Braniselj has started; if we can in both laws, the Law on Owl and that other law write down the same material as what is wrong with the visa of constitutionality in this law, what is the issue here, what is the problem here, and also what to do to make the operators give operationally the data that someone in this field needs. If I say one more parable, and I'm very reluctant to do so, it is said that the police should not say who lives in a house that will later be investigated for a suspicious crime. That's about right. We only get an address based on which we find that subscriber and then from the Supreme Court, the prosecutions get permission to go into his privacy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs Roman Jakič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Indeed, the greatest dilemma in the examination of this law is, of course, the dilemma surrounding the competence of the body under the seventh paragraph of this Article 166. I am pleased that today, by the largest coalition party and coalition partner, it has been said that there will be no further consideration of this seventh paragraph of Article 166, but I would like to make it clear that the government will make such an amendment if it is not prepared by the coalition. We are turning around on a very important human rights issue, and the question is whether the competent authority can, in this case, obtain information from the police or the intelligence and security services about the electronic communications provider. And here's the difference. The Government and Sova argue that this part is, before finding the content of the communication, that it does not comply with Article 37 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, with the information authority referring also to the Constitutional Court’s judgment, that the content of communications is not only protected, but also to the circumstances and facts related to communication. The Information Officer – I agree with her – says that with regard to this acquisition of IP all communications are subject to protection by the Constitution, according to Article 37 of the Constitution. Why am I saying this? What Braniselj said is, of course, held in the CAP; but in the CAP, the competent authority must obtain, it is said, the whole procedure under the CAP by issuing the order of the competent court, the real competent court must decide whether or not the intelligence and security services have been ordered by the President of the Supreme Court. We're talking about that part of communication when we're talking about content, but the problem that I'm seeing is whether without a court decision or with a Owl without a Supreme Court ruling, the police or Owl know if I called Minister Turk yesterday and if Minister Turk called me. At this point, it is possible to manipulate and at this point there is a problem in Article 166, paragraph 7, and if I correctly understand and hope that the Constitutional Court will respond quickly to the request of the information officer who wanted to receive an application or asked the Constitutional Court to explain the content of this Article 37 to see whether this is — not a hearing, but whether the police or the security intelligence service can detect it from the beginning or only from the part where we start talking about the contents of the telephone conversation we had yesterday or not with Minister Turk. That's why I think we should say something else. Therefore, the positive Slovenia did not in fact say that it is not a suitable basis; I hope it is appropriate, I say that it is a suitable basis, because we need the law on electronic communications, but this needs to be clarified. On the other hand, by deleting this seventh paragraph of Article 166, we will make this legislation more transparent. This was what Maša spoke about when she spoke about the need to have such provisions in one place, but not to hide them through other different legislation. It is only right for me that this is in the law on criminal proceedings, where it is clearly clear; but there is a requirement that not only the police do so, but it must be certified by the competent court or by the President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word is also given by Dr. Mark Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Some very short answers. Mrs Potrata, the general requirement for the public of Apec is, of course, in law. The Council of the Agency, which we have introduced, is one medium solution between the existing solution and, honey, I will say, a multi-personal management body. With regard to Mr Meh's debates, including Mr Jakić now; we at the Ministry agree that things should be arranged in one place. The Criminal Procedure Act is very clear on this. We do not know that there would be disputes or decisions by the Constitutional Court. However, the amendments will be submitted to this law by Members, as the procedure for this is envisaged. I repeat, I think that this debate has also shown that the law is suitable for further consideration. Not every comma and dot is likely to be ideal, but it is possible to get closer to this ideal in the process.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u73	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law amending the Children's Assignment Act with special needs within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary of Mrs Mojci Škrinjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u74	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The new Act on Children’s Guidance with Special Needs brings the deadline for the application of the law to a later date, 1 September 2013. The existing law, which was adopted by 22. Seven. In 2011, he set out a series of novelties that could not be achieved without prejudice to other laws and regulations. Furthermore, the news was not financially evaluated. After some calculations, it is estimated to be a little less than 20 million additional funds. The law is supposed to apply 1. 9. In 2012, the Public Finance Balance Act extended its consumption to 1. 12. 2012. The objectives of the proposed amendment of the law or the withdrawal of the date shall be directly linked to the effective implementation of the law and, in particular, to the provision of Article 20 of this Law, which provides for institutions carrying out the professional tasks referred to in paragraph 2 of that Article. In addition, for the smooth implementation of the law, the following amendments and additions to certain programmes and organisational adjustments should be made for the implementation of the teaching, such as: Article 1 provision relating to the possibility of prolonged education of persons with moderate, severe and severe mental impairment up to 21 years. This requires an intervention in the school network and an amendment to the specific education and education programme. Furthermore, complementing the definition of children with special needs. A group of children with autistic disorders requires a preliminary decision on how to educate them and whether to prepare a new, adapted educational programme or to supplement existing ones. Additional professional assistance is defined differently in the law as well as the way it is implemented, which requires intervention in the organisation of teaching and the provision of operators of that form of assistance. Finally, let me add that the existing system is good, and only some adjustments are needed, which are already in preparation. I propose to the Members that the proposed amendments be supported. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Branku Grims. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u76	Have a nice hello again. The Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on child guidance with special needs at its 5th regular session on 8 November 2012. He took note of the comments made by the Legal Service to Article 2 and of the fact that, on this basis, the coalition parliamentary groups had tabled an amendment to this Article, and of the position of the Government presented by the Secretary of State Mrs Škrinjar, that it was necessary for the implementation of the legislative provisions to adapt the programmes and possibly extend the programmes for individual groups, which would also require an intervention in the existing school network or in the education and education programme. For all these reasons, the amendment to Article 2 was then adopted, allowing the law to enter into force as early as the day following its publication and approved the bill without a single vote against it. We also propose that the National Assembly adopt such a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u78	Nice greeting to Madam Secretary of State and again I welcome all colleagues and colleagues! It is not the first time in Parliament that we have extended or suspended the time of implementation or application of a law. This time, the implementation of the adopted amendments to the Law on Children's Guidance with Special Needs is delayed in the previous mandate. The new Child Guidance Act entered into force with special needs. 8. 2011 and it is intended to apply 1. 9. 2012. The Public Finance Balance Act has fixed the application of novelties by three months, i.e. at 1. 12. 2012, and with this law today, we are going to make another delay, and we are going to set the start of application at the beginning of the next school year. Since the amendment of the Child Guidance Act 2011 requires intervention in existing school networks, amendments to the specific education and education programme and other organisational changes that require intervention in other laws, it is appropriate to prepare changes in a thorough and professional manner and to enforce them with a start and not in the middle of the school year. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with this amendment and we support the legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u80	Thank you. Your Honor! The Children with Special Needs Act is very important for a wide range of children eligible for special care and monitoring during their schooling. With this proposal, the application of its amendments is delayed to 1 September 2013. In order to effectively implement the guidance of children with special needs, a number of amendments and additions to certain programmes and organisational adjustments for the implementation of the teaching which the Ministry, unfortunately, has not been able to implement by the initial date, due to volume and complexity, have yet to be implemented. Since in New Slovenia we want the law to be implemented according to the highest standards, we will support this delay with the desire that all the above interventions take place in a bad year. Let us continue to express our support for some of the provisions of the Law on Children's Guidance with Special Needs. We are certainly not talking about just one group of children with special needs, as the law covers a wider range of needs that we recognize in children: children with mental disabilities, deaf and deaf children, blind and visually impaired children, children with speech-speaking disorders, children with motion problems, children with disabilities in particular areas of learning, long-term ill children and children with emotional and behavioural disorders and children with autistic disabilities. All these children need special care and understanding not only of the domestic environment, but of the wider, social and social environment. It is right to take into account any factors that may have a qualitative impact on the implementation of the law itself when amending this law. A number of civil society organisations operating in this area have also supported the early entry into force of the law. As has already been said, Members of New Slovenia will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Jakič on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u82	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The implementation of the Children's Guidance Act with special needs, which was adopted in 2011, is now being translated into another. That's not good. This time, the delay in the implementation of the law, which provides for the introduction of certain vital innovations for certain children, is explained by the following words: "For the urgent need to amend the Law on the organisation and financing of education and adjustments or changes to individual programmes or interventions in the organisation of teaching, it is necessary to postpone application of the law to 1 September 2013, i.e. to the beginning of the school year." End of quote. I wonder why you haven't done this before when you announced this when you first intervened in the law on the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act. According to the Secretary of State, it has not been possible to prepare changes at the meeting of the mother's labour force until today, as it is necessary to regulate the possibility of the extension of education of persons with moderate, severe and severe mental impairment up to 21 years of age. For a group of children with autistic disorders, a new or complementary programme needs to be established and a way of educating them. Of course, it is commendable and it is here to be commended for your cooperation with the professional public and, of course, it takes time. But the Slovenian proverb says: a minute lost, no one comes back. Therefore, the postponement of the implementation of the law to the next school year will be a major disappointment for those who exercise these rights under this law, as they rightly expected the immediate implementation of the law. For a child, an autist is one year or even more years without assistance, professional support, educational process time or period that is in no way compensated. This can have a decisive impact on his future and his ability to participate as much as normal in society, in life and in education and other processes. I warn you that we have been playing with a second generation of autistic children and that the second generation of autistic children will not receive what the law offers. That is why I would expect the Government, which is preparing and sending draft laws to the National Assembly following an urgent procedure, as well as in all other areas, that it understands that it is necessary to take a thorough, systematic and in cooperation with the professional public, as it does in this law, even though it is – as the Minister answered Monday's question about the question sent to his colleague, Peter Wilfan, that it is less difficult to harmonise the law. It is difficult to confirm this suspension of the enforcement of the law, but we will not help children by objecting to it, so Positive Slovenia will not oppose the bill, but we will hold you to the floor that you will do everything at the Ministry to make this law come true with the next school year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Ms Mateja Pučnik on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Honourable Secretary of State! The Children with Special Needs Act entered into force in August 2011, just before the end of the previous government and before the economic and financial crisis opened up, which has certainly resulted in consequences for the implementation of this Act. The Act is intended to apply on 1 September 2012, but the Public Finance Balance Act has moved the application of this Act to 1 December 2012. However, since certain interventions in the school network, changes in the programme and various organisational changes that relate exclusively to the start of the school year need to be implemented in order to implement several articles of the Law on Children's Guidance with Special Needs, and since the Law on Financing for Education and Education needs to be amended or supplemented, it is proposed that the application of the law in question be renewed on 1 September 2013, i.e. at the beginning of the next school year. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are very aware of how sensitive this law is. It touches a group of children and adolescents who are most vulnerable and need special protection and assistance. The law certainly brings many positive changes, thus introducing a centre for specific professional tasks, organisationally regulates the possibility of extending the education of persons with moderate, severe and severe mental development until their 21st year, which requires intervention in the school network and consequently changes in the specific education and education programme. The law also complements the definition of children with special needs with a group of children with autistic disorders, and this requires a preliminary decision on their education and possible preparation of a new adapted programme for this way of implementation. In the law, additional professional assistance is newly defined, as is the way in which the aid is implemented, which also requires intervention in the organisation of teaching and the provision of operators of that form of aid. All these changes are, unfortunately, impossible to engage in the educational process in the middle of the school year. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we would like to emphasise that this school year, all children with special needs are entitled to legal rights without interference, children with special needs are given all the assistance and the care they are entitled to, their rights, their work, learning and life are fully regulated, so that they can participate in the educational process according to their abilities. By the beginning of the next school year, the area of work for children with special needs will also be supported in the Slovenian Democratic Party by the adoption of the law on 1 September 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Trutt on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President! Madam Secretary of State, you have reiterated your justification for the introduction of the Children's Guidance Act with special needs to be moved to 1 September 2013; you have argued that this should be aligned with the start of the school year. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that you already knew this when you moved the introduction of the Law on Public Finance Balance to December 1st, because it is impossible to overlook how many articles there are to associate with the beginning of the school year. What is more worrying is that you also refer to a coalition contract, which requires that the law be adopted and amended. And the same position is drawn from the opinion of the largest parliamentary group. If I come from the experience we already have with the amendment of the Children's Guidance Act 2006 when established standards have been substantially reduced, then it can be expected that in this law – which was adopted in August 2011 and was intended for one year to prepare everything in schools for the implementation of the law, sufficient time to adjust, that in your desire for savings you have tried to circumvent the Public Finance Balance Act and thus disguise the actual purpose. We do not agree with this, so we will not support the proposed extension because it is also linked to the announced changes to the law. That's something I'd like to remind you of. We have already proposed the deletion of Article 91 of the Public Finance Balance Act with the amendment. By then, we had already said that children should not be saved in this group. And what needs to be added, the Social Democrats remember how long coordination with the public concerned has been necessary and how long the law has been preparing to achieve the law form with which the vast majority of stakeholders have been satisfied; yet we have not been able to do everything as we wanted! I would like to see those interested public groups agreeing to the conclusion of the agreement. Because I have an electronic message from one of these groups that has responded specifically to the Magi statement. Andrej Visiak, who, on the 20th of November at the 53rd anniversary of the adoption of the Declaration of the United Nations on the Rights of the Child and the 30th anniversary of the adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in his statement to the public as the third starting point for the preparation of a programme to improve the situation of children and young people, also wrote, "financially and organizationally make it easier for families, especially children with special needs or with a greater number of children, to harmonise professional and family life". This is also supposed to be a concern for our children because it is a concern for the future. In this group, it is a civil association of children of the Society for Autoism, it feels — this statement — like a special cynicism, after today we are adopting a law that begins to enforce the Law on the direction of children with special needs of delay for one year. It is simply an unimaginable problem that parents of such children face, as it is also a matter of setting up a escort, it is a different treatment, taking into account the benefits of children more fully. That is why, as we say, we will oppose this law in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mag. Truda Cinderella on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The proposed amendment proposes the suspension of the application of the Children's Guidance Act with special needs on 1 September 2013. This is without prejudice to the fundamental principles that have already been followed in the preparation of the basic law which entered into force in August 2011, and is to apply from 1 September 2012. This deadline was postponed to 1 December 2012 by the Public Finance Balance Act. In the Parliamentary Group, we agree with the proposed application of the law on a later date, as we are aware of the need to regulate this area. In the event of a delay in the implementation of the law, it is only formal and not substantive changes. The purpose of the proposed amendment is directly linked to the effective implementation of the law and has no financial implications, as the postponement of the application of the law merely preserves the current regime. It will also allow better quality solutions to be adopted; we are thinking about optimizing the child guidance model with special needs in Slovenia. In my address, I would like to point out some more concrete reasons why we agree to postpone the application of the law. Not all conditions are met for the implementation of the law, and changes in education are urgently linked to the start of the school year. It is unacceptable that in the same school year some individuals would be targeted under one law and would therefore be subject to different rules than other legislation for other individuals. This would mean difficulties in organising education. Prior amendments to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and adaptation or modification of individual programmes or organisational adjustments for the implementation of training are required. In short, in the Parliamentary Group, we support the Civil Change List, not only because the conditions for the implementation of the law are not actually provided for at this time, but also because we believe that certain professional concerns about the regulation of the area should also be adopted at the time of the preparation of the legislation which will enter into force with the school year 2013/2014. However, if we want them to be of quality, of course they require their time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Every child, like every adult, is unique, each with his or her personality, personality, and needs. But when we talk about children with special needs, we think mainly of all those who have special needs because of their illness or other developmental disorders. In this definition, we often forget about children and youth, who also have their special needs due to their over-average ability and requirements for development progress. Your Honor! When we decide and discuss children's rights with special needs, we need to introduce even more carefully the changes that concern them. In the debate on the law before us, we were told that the entry into force of this law was not possible and that an additional delay or extension of the deadline for the entry into force of this amendment was needed. The smooth implementation of the Children's Guidance Act with specific needs for the words of the Ministry requires certain amendments and additions to certain programmes and organisational adjustments for the implementation of teaching. For example, it was clarified that the provision relating to the possibility of extending education of persons with moderate, severe and severe mental disabilities by the age of 21 requires intervention in the school network and a change in the specific education and education programme. Complementing the definition of children with special needs will require a preliminary decision on how to educate a group of children with autistic disabilities, and additional professional assistance will also require intervention in the organisation of training and the provision of operators. Members and Members of the Slovenian People's Party will be supported by the law, which provides for an extension of the time for the implementation of the provisions, as it is obvious that it cannot be implemented even on 1 December this year, as laid down by the Law on the Balance of Public Finance. That is why we want, Member and Members of the Slovenian People's Party, to ensure that children with special needs in this interim period will be made available by 1 September 2013, but that children and their parents will be well informed of their rights. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we expect everything to be prepared in time for the implementation of the law and the law will enter into force within a new, extended period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, the Final Procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary Alexander Zorn.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members! The protection of cultural heritage in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia is governed by the law which entered into force on 1 March 2008. In Article 135, which defines the so-called abolition, the law provided for the protection of the public interest in the protection of archaeological findings by allowing those holders of archaeological findings who did not have a certificate of origin to have a one-year application period. On the basis of the constitutionality assessment initiative given by the Logatec Military Museum and the Numismatic Society of Slovenia, the Constitutional Court has established the elimination of inconsistencies concerning the ownership of archaeological remains and the obligation to possess proof of origin. The proposal for a new law follows the decision of the Constitutional Court and provides that the archaeological finding that anyone finds or otherwise derives from the surface of the land or water in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia is the property of the State, but only if it is identified as an inheritance in one of those procedures. Findings with special historical, archaeological and scientific significance are defined as state property in most European laws. The proposed definition of proof of origin is broad enough to ensure adequate legal certainty for the holder of archaeological findings or collections having any of the above forms of proof of the circumstances of acquisition. The new law, drafted by the Ministry of the Interior, was sent to Parliament for parliamentary consideration, in which proposals were submitted to the Ministry for amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups, which were fully adopted by the Ministry, ensuring that public interest is adequately protected and to the maximum extent possible, addressing the concerns of the initiators of the constitutional assessment. At the meeting of the competent committee, the Ministry also adopted a proposal from the opposition to provide a clearer definition of proof of origin. However, the proposed amendment to the law referred to in Article 5 concerns the harmonisation of the legal and sub-legislative provisions and the establishment of a financial framework for the state funding of preliminary research into archaeological sites at the level of the budgetary resources provided annually and thus to take account of the Government's decision on austerity measures. In addition to Article 40, it is proposed that the Minister may exceptionally issue a decision on the financing of a measure of protection without public appeal or invitation to tender, provided that due to the serious threat of cultural heritage it is necessary to adopt an approach to financing without delay. The amount of intervention shall be determined by a decision of the Minister responsible for Culture within the framework of budgetary resources intended for the restoration of cultural heritage. Thus, the proposal for amendments to the law introduces the possibility of public intervention co-financing of cultural heritage in the event that the threat requires immediate action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law addressed the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth as a mother's labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I shall give the Chairman of the Magi. Branku Grims. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u94	Once again, hello to everyone. The Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth also considered this proposal on 8 November 2012. He took note of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service on Articles 2, 4, 7, 8 and 9, and of the fact that, within the time limit of business, the amendments had been tabled by the members of the coalition, and the assessment of the legal service, that possible legal uncertainties could be addressed by these amendments. In its opinion, the Commission of the Council of State supported the bill, but only drew attention to some restrictive measures when it came to solutions in this law. Finally, all the amendments of the coalition were adopted, and an additional amendment of the committee was also adopted, on the opposition's proposal to delete the word link "and so on", namely that this amendment was adopted unanimously, on the basis of an assessment that the text would be legally clearer in this way and that no clarifications or interpretations of the law would be necessary later. In this way, in the second stage of the discussion, the proposal for a law with a majority of votes was then also voted at the Committee meeting and we propose to the National Assembly that this law be adopted as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Iva Dimic on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Effective protection of immovable cultural heritage requires such amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage and to amend other laws to promote investment in cultural heritage. There is a need to strengthen the responsibility for the issue of consent for construction and other intervention in monumental protection. The financing of archaeological research from the state budget is limited by the level of available resources to make these funds lower is understandable in these times of crisis. In Novi Slovenije we see the problem of reviving old city nuclei, such as Ptuj, Koper, Celje, Ljubljana, which are usually all archaeological sites, while at the same time the content and population empties. This is mainly the problem that the Institute for Monument Protection, with its legally fully justified requirements for the conduct of previous archaeological research, is burdened only by the investor and consequently hampers and reduces investment in cultural heritage. Some also report that recently protected archaeological sites have become particularly popular for construction, as archaeologists with state resources dig a well and carefully the building pit and thus save only a fraction of the cost to the investor. This is one of the consequences of the existing system. It is proposed that the state funding of previous research into archaeological sites will no longer be an obligation, but rather an option within the available budgetary resources. By correcting the articles on ownership and use of concepts regarding archaeological findings or collections, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia will largely regulate the area and support it in the New Slovenia Group. We will also support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mrs Tamara Vonta on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The proposal for a bill follows the Constitutional Court's decision, which we welcome. It provides that the archaeological finding that anyone finds or otherwise derives from the surface of the land, from land or water in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, is the property of the State, but only if it is identified as an inheritance in one of those procedures. The new law eliminates constitutional inconsistencies – we welcome! The proposed amendment to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, however, is inconsistent to the cities or brings inadequate solutions to the proposed definition of proof of origin. As shown in Article 7 of the novel, one of the aims of the bill's proposer is to define the purpose of proof of origin, namely that the person who obtained the finding or the collection of the findings may demonstrate by proof the ownership right or the right of storage. If we look at how the proposer of the novel defines proof of origin, we quickly find that he has mixed up some of the documents that can actually show the right to own or own property — the decision on inheritance, the export licence, the will, the contracts and so on — with those documents which are questionable or even completely irrelevant for the proof of ownership or the right to own property. We can't just say hello to that. Therefore, there are some concepts on the torn legs that are often used: an expert opinion, which is generally an expert opinion on the actual state of an object which can determine its age, origin, purpose and the like for which it was used, does not directly affect the right to own property or property. Then it is implemented here by the previous owner, who also has no pitiful value in this respect. Photo or video, that an object is photographed in a particular object or space, also somehow does not mean enough to prove ownership, say. One such case would be amphora in the living room. With this video or this photo, it would be a little difficult to help prove ownership. The same applies to the publication of a publication which in itself does not have any proof of ownership or of the rightful possession. Of course, this law, too, could not be avoided by a savings note which had nothing to do with the Constitutional Court’s decision. After the new state funding for previous research into archaeological sites will no longer be an obligation, but an opportunity. This actually means that if there is no funding, there will be no preliminary research. That's what we're opposed to. However, since we respect the Constitution and the decisions of the Constitutional Court in contrast to the coalition, we will support the law in Positive Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Ms Janja Attack on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u100	President, thank you very much for your word. Dear Members and Members, and the rest of you present, welcome! The Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage removes the non-compliance of Articles 6, 53, 127 and 135 with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the provisions of the Constitutional Court. It follows from Articles 5 and 6 of this Act that mobile and immovable archaeological finds from excavations on land or underwater from the territory of the Republic of Slovenia discovered after 1945 may be privately or publicly owned. The amendment to Article 6(1), where the property right of cultural heritage is regulated, governs the ownership right of an archaeological State. This provision may only apply to such objects which are found under established legislation on the protection of cultural heritage. Following the proposed amendment to the law, Article 5 sets out the financial framework for state funding for research into archaeological sites at the level of the annual budget allocated, which is of paramount importance during the savings coalition and the government. According to Article 53 of the Act, the owner or keeper of an archaeological find will have to have proof of origin, an appropriate document or other authentic document, which indicates that the person has obtained an archaeological finding or a collection of such findings in possession or storage. An application for a finding or application for a storage under this Act shall also be considered as proof of origin. It should be pointed out that the change in the volume of archaeological findings or moving archaeological remains in itself does not in itself constitute an interference with property rights, unless it relates to archaeological finding or the moving archaeological remnant after the application of legal changes. Therefore, the amendment of the legislator does not prejudice existing ownership relations. The proposed addition to the 10th indent of Article 127 amends the part determining the offence for a legal person or an individual or the responsible person of a legal person of a State, regional or municipal authority and an individual who does not possess proof of origin in accordance with Article 53 of this Law. In addition to saving policy, it is the responsibility of the National Assembly to take into account and adequately protect the Slovenian valuables to be protected when regulating this amendment. In this way, legislation immediately ensures effective protection of the objects of the cultural heritage of archaeological remnants and finds with special characteristics. The State shall also assume specific obligations when finding and maintaining an archaeological remnant and shall take care of its existence as long as possible. Part of the specific obligations at the time of discovery shall also be imposed on the shipowner or the landowner, as well as on the investor and the responsible manager of the works in the case of construction. The investment of public funds in cultural monuments seeks to cover the difference between the funds foreseen by the owner in accordance with his or her capabilities and the total amount for the implementation of the conservation and maintenance measures of the monument. Furthermore, Article 135 of the amended Act provides for the application of an archaeological finding maintained by a person without having a certificate of origin, the release of a criminal prosecution for previous archaeological investigation, the issuance of proof of origin with instructions for storage, the preparation of a proposal for the declaration of a declared archaeological finding for a monument or a monumental collection, and the eligibility for the storage of an archaeological find and compensation for the cost of storage, with compensation being decided by the competent ministry. The proposal to amend the law introduces the possibility of public intervention co-financing of cultural heritage in the event that the threat requires immediate action. By supplementing Article 40, the Minister may exceptionally issue a decision on the financing of a measure of protection without public appeal or invitation to tender, provided that the threat of cultural heritage makes it necessary to finance the accession without delay. Delays in the recovery and better response to protection and conservation measures are also being addressed. Improving systemic solutions in the area of public investment, protection and preservation of cultural heritage will allow for faster action in the face of potential threats to cultural heritage. The purpose of the individual proposed amendments to the law is therefore to reduce the expenditure of the State's budget, but I stress that the definition of ownership of the State is limited to an object for which, under the procedure laid down by law, it is determined that the object has the characteristics of the inheritance. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk only, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Due to cultural, scientific and general human values, the protection and preservation of cultural heritage are in the national interest. Article 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia even explicitly requires the State to take care of the preservation of natural wealth and cultural heritage and to take care and create opportunities for consistent civil and cultural development of Slovenia. Therefore, caring for cultural heritage is a very important constitutional category, as enshrined in the general provisions of our Constitution. In the museum and conservatory profession and in the Community of Museums of Slovenia and in other professional organisations, the original bill came across a number of responses from four years ago. Here we have the position of Slovenian museums and their professional organisation in order to need a separate museum law, such as library and archival law. Of course, some other European countries have similar solutions. To the Ministry responsible for culture, we propose that after a good four years it be necessary to make a thorough analysis of the implementation of this law and to find out what the shortcomings were and what the advantages of this legislation were. Regrettably, at that time, certain articles of the law were even contrary to the Constitution, which, at the initiative of some private collectors and Slovenian numizmatic society, also found the Constitutional Court in its decision. The amendment of the law eliminates these differences. As far as I have consulted some experts in the field of movable cultural heritage, this law is supported. The fact is that the original law, at least that's what practice has shown, is what this constitutional decision is finally about, is extremely hostile to private collectors. In 135th article, the law contained the so-called abolition of private collectors. The collectors, who kept archaeological findings without a certificate of origin on the date of application of this Act in 2008, were required to notify the State or the authorised museum, and to register their collections and items no later than one year after the entry into force of this Act. The vast majority of private collectors maintain and maintain an untransparent array of objects of historical and cultural value. Many of them also put them at their own expense to the public eye. Legal arrangements and practices between museum institutions and private collectors must encourage cooperation and create trust, they must become allies in protecting and presenting their collections. Only sanctions and very few incentives have prevented quite a noticeable part of private collectors from cooperating. Something in this direction also solves this novel, but there are many other issues in the law itself, such as the 50-year-old age for archaeological finds or archaeological rest of military material, when other archaeological remains are subject to 100-year deadlines, and so on. Article 31 is also disputed, or the power of the Minister to remove an inheritance, and so on. On the committee responsible, we made very precise comments on Article 1 which deals with evidence of origin. The very clear evidence of origin is, for example, the decision on succession, export licences, wills and other authentic documents that this finding was obtained by ownership or storage. Other evidence, such as a statement by the previous owner, a photograph or a photograph of the subject, and a publication in the publication and in the end even evidence and so forth, is very problematic. Thus, the criteria "and so on" were removed from the law by the amendment of the committee. The fifth so-called austerity clause is also problematic, since the state funding of previous research into archaeological sites is no longer an obligation of the State but is left to the Minister’s opinion or to the available budgetary means. The fact was that we had €400 to 600 000 available for these studies annually. These funds, however, have been substantially cut down in the pattern of widespread savings. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the law or we will not oppose it, as it primarily eliminates disagreements with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mag. Truda Cinderella on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage eliminates non-compliance and improves systemic solutions in the field of investment in public funds, protection and preservation of cultural heritage, which will allow for faster action in the event of a potential threat to cultural heritage and further save the use of public funds. To a lesser extent, under budgetary options, the articles on State funding for previous archaeological research also change. Complementing a law in a work where the Minister may exceptionally issue a decision on the financing of a measure of protection without a call or invitation to tender is necessary, since so far there has been no provision expressly enabling it. In practice, too, there has been a shift in responsibilities between the institution and the inspectorate. This was also because it was not clear who would finance these measures, as owners usually abandon the care of the monument precisely because they do not have the money to maintain. State intervention is therefore necessary in these cases and the provision is appropriate. The law also lays down procedures for proof of origin. In these procedures, it is important to determine whether the rules in force at the time of finding were also defined as State-owned. If not, the provisions of the ZVKD shall not apply to the owner of the find. Therefore, the law does not automate the ownership of the country for a period prior to the 2008 ZVKD. The ownership of the State is also specifically identified in the procedure and the law expressly provides that this shall be determined on the basis of a review of the rules, whether they then established that any finding was State-owned. With regard to the procedures for determining whether a cultural heritage movement has been found, the criteria are not satisfactory. The criteria should be clearly defined, but it is not a matter that could not be corrected or carried out despite such a dictatorship in law. The solution is possible in accordance with Article 74 of the Law on State Administration, which provides that ministers shall issue regulations, orders and instructions for the enforcement of laws, other regulations of the National Assembly, government regulations and regulations of the European Union. A regulation, order or instruction shall be issued where the law or regulation issued for the enforcement of the law so provides, or if the Minister considers that this is necessary for the enforcement of the law or regulation of the European Union. However, with regard to specific embarrassments and possible abuses relating to the issue of cultural protection conditions and cultural protection consent as a condition for the issue of a building permit in disputed areas, this is a matter of regularity of an individual procedure. Improvements in this area have already been brought about by the new Law on the Construction of Buildings, which also introduced specific complaints against cultural protection conditions. In the past, the complaint was only possible against the cultural consent or rejection of the issue of cultural protection consent, so the change in this segment is not necessary at least for the time being. The Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette considers that, on the basis of all the above, there are no major reservations to the adoption of legislation or legislation which would subsequently be insolvent in practice. We therefore support the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc is next on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u106	Thank you for saying that again. Let me begin by saying that the protection of natural and cultural heritage tells a lot about the country itself and how much the state is aware of its history and how it wants to preserve or cherish it. The area of protection of cultural heritage is subject to a number of interests due to its specific function, to the greatest extent to the interest of capital, which is not based on the historical and cultural value of an individual object or object, but its primary function is the creation of capital. Therefore, the role of the State prior to the intervention of capital in the area of cultural heritage is extremely important. The proposed amendment of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage left matters at the forefront, which are also important for the effective protection of cultural heritage. It is envisaged that certain articles of the law will be brought into line with the decision of the Constitutional Court, resulting from initiatives to assess constitutionality by the Numismatic Society of Slovenia and certain individuals. The law thus provides for a new definition of proof of origin and clearly lays down property rights on items which can be defined by law as archaeological findings. The proposed novelty of dynamics and the scope of archaeological excavations also adapt to the current budgetary options, as funding for previous archaeological research by the State will no longer be compulsory, which does not mean that the state will now raise its hands from all archaeological research. Absolutely not! Only the extent of co-financing for certain buildings built by private investors will be reduced. However, in the opinion of the Members of the Slovenian People's Party, an important provision is contained in Article 6 or the amended Article 40 of the Basic Law, which confers discretion on the competent minister in issuing decisions on the financing of certain cultural heritage intervention measures without a call or call for tender. In this way, funding will be made available immediately so that irreparable damage can be prevented. Members of the Slovenian People's Party believe that the proposed amendment to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage is fully following the constitutional decision and that we will also unanimously support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Hello, Secretary of State, Mr. Zorn. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen. The proposed amendments and additions to the bill are without prejudice to the basic principles, objectives and fundamental solutions of the basic law, so that they are not substantively difficult and therefore justify the reduced legislative procedure. The amendments are proposed in three areas. The most important amendment to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage relates to the abolition of the finding of non-compliance with certain provisions of the applicable law with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in its Article 33. The aim of this amendment is a clear and unequivocal legal basis for interpretation, according to which archaeological findings are found from excavations or sites on land and underwater from the territory of the Republic of Slovenia discovered after 1945, for which it is determined in the prescribed procedures that they have the characteristics of inheritance, the property of the State. However, it is without prejudice to the property rights of private persons who have acquired property belonging to property from the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. To a lesser extent, the articles on State funding for previous archaeological research are being amended. It is a matter of harmonising laws and regulations. The scope and dynamics of providing funding for archaeological excavations will be determined within the budgetary options provided annually and the selection of archaeological excavations will be carried out following the call procedure. On the basis of the solutions proposed in this paper, immediate intervention funding for that heritage that is at risk will also be possible. In such cases, the Minister shall have the power to issue a decision on the financing of a specific cultural heritage protection measure without public appeal. The Legislative and Legal Service has assessed that the amendments contained in these amendments and legislative additions have eliminated the legal ambiguity. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Natural and Cultural Heritage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Secretary of State, Dr. Dejna Krusc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u110	Have a nice hello to you all. Dear Members and Members! In short, on this amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Insurance, which you have received in the reduced procedure, the aim of this amendment is to adapt the Slovenian legislation to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, to establish restrictions on investments in connected issuers and to introduce a more comprehensive transposition of the European Life Insurance Directive. As regards the judgment, as you know, the Court of Justice of the European Union has decided that the second paragraph of Article 5 of the Council Directive on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment between men and women in access to goods and services is invalid. In accordance with this judgment, the Insurance Act should be amended by 21 December of this year in such a way as to prevent premiums and insurance undertakings from taking into account the personal circumstances of the insured person. As far as the Directive is concerned, the Life Insurance Directive of the European Council provides that investments covered by the insurance contract benefits do not include a guaranteed return, so this novelty, which we are proposing, provides for the application of Article 121 of the Law, which lays down the types of permitted investments. However, further major solutions to the novel are before you that the insurance agent or intermediary shall operate continuously to the insurer so that at any time it can be identified and that the Director of the UN is performing the tasks under the responsibility of the UN, unless it is stipulated in the law that another authority is responsible for the performance of these tasks. In view of all the above, since this is a technical novelty, I propose that you support this amendment of the Insurance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Patrice Schulin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u112	President, thank you for your word. I'm here to greet you! At its 9th meeting on 7 November this year, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The Committee received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects. In its opinion, the Service made specific comments on Articles 1, 3, 6, 8 and 9 of the draft law. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, the National Gazette, the Slovenian People's Party, DeSUS and New Slovenia on Articles 1, 3, 6, 8, 9 and 10 of the draft law, and the same parliamentary group on Articles 1 and 9 of the draft law. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introduction to the explanatory memorandum, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained that the main purpose of the bill is to adapt Slovenian legislation to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union by 21. 12. 2012, which provided that sex as an actuarial factor should not affect the amount of individual premiums and insurance. The solutions to the amendment follow the guidelines of the European Commission. The aim of the novelty is also to establish restrictions on investments in connected issuers and a more comprehensive transposition of Article 25 of the Life Insurance Directive. Further major solutions to the amendment of the Insurance Act are to ensure that the insurance agent or intermediary against the insurance undertaking and the insured person operates continuously in such a way that its unique identity is possible at any time and that the Director of the UNSCR performs the tasks and responsibilities of the UNSCR, unless it is stipulated in the law that another authority of the UNS is responsible for the performance of these tasks. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that they had given a written opinion on the proposal for a law proposing that certain provisions should be further examined and supplemented in particular from a substantive point of view in view of the provisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The representative also said that the applicant had taken their comments into account and had tabled amendments to which they had no comments. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted amendments to the above-mentioned parliamentary groups by Articles 1, 3, 6, 8, 9 and 10 of the draft law. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u113	Thank you very much. This is followed by a shift in the positions of the members of the groups. Mr Aloj Potočnik on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u114	Your Honor! The solutions to the proposals of the novel follow the guidelines of the European Commission or of the Union. With regard to one of the directives, the Court of Justice of the European Union in its judgment ruled that the second paragraph of Article 5 of the Council Directive on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment of men and women in access to and supply of goods and services is invalid. The judgment will affect the legal regime in all Member States, as it is currently permitted for all to take into account the personal situation of the sex in determining premiums and insurance at individual level. In particular, gender differentiation is permitted in the field of life insurance. In accordance with the judgment in Slovenia, we transpose the second paragraph of Article 5 of the Directive. The draft law introduces the principles of harmonisation of the legal order, equal treatment by sex and the principle of the safety of insured persons. The positive Slovenia supports the main solutions of the bill's proposal that insurance companies should not take into account the personal circumstances of the sex, so that personal data processing companies can make reservations and determine prices by assessing the risk of life and health insurance, and that the total value of the insurance undertaking's investment in the same issuer, that is, the debtor, and the related persons must not exceed 10% of the technical and insurance provisions. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, we support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u116	Dear Presidents, colleagues, colleagues! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act will be supported in the SDS Group. We estimate that this is a matter of progress and that complementing and aligning with the European acquis will bring added value, especially for insurers, and especially for the more transparent operation of insurance companies. For all of this, we will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u118	According to the Social Democrats, it is a welcome amendment to the Insurance Act, which follows the European regime and also the judgment of the European Court of Justice, which has determined that sex must not be a discriminatory factor in determining insurance premiums. We believe that the law or its novelty also eliminates certain other uncertainties, such as with regard to the competence of an individual body, where the competence of the authority within the Insurance Supervisory Agency is not specified more precisely, and other changes that will be supported by the Social Democrats in this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Starman on behalf of the Group of the National Gazette. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, and I'm happy to be together! There is nothing to add to this, except that the Civil Code will also support this law. The judgment of the European Court of Justice, which requires us to adapt our legislation to the meaning of this judgment by 21. 12. 2012, it seems right that sex does not affect the calculation of premiums. Once again, the members of the National Gazette will support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Žveglič on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, everybody have a good day! Your Honor! Several complementary European legislation and the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Community are essential reasons for the pending amendments to the Insurance Act. The deadline set by the European Commission for the adoption of these supplements is due within the next month. As we have already heard, it is primarily about changing that insurance companies can take into account the personal circumstances of the individual sex when creating a premium at the common level, but in no way in terms of individual treatment. Therefore, the risk assessment can be carried out on the basis of gender distinctions, but it must by no means switch to individual treatment, i.e. discrimination on the basis of personal circumstances. This applies to increased supervision of the exposure of the investment portfolio of insurance undertakings for which the risk is also assumed by the insurers. So far, there has been no restriction on how much investment the insurance company has had in one or more related companies. We are now limiting this share to 10% of insurance and technical provisions, which increases the spread and reduces the risk to the end-user of the insurance service. The Government has also set a slightly longer deadline in the law to align insurance companies with this provision by 1 January 2014, so that the necessary sale of assets at possibly currently unfavourable prices will not be necessary. In the flood of insurance agents who apply door-to-door locks, there is also a very important provision for people, which obliges the insurance representative to be able to identify him in any way at any time. Of course, we will support these changes in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Plevčak is next on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, please. If you'll excuse me, first of all, Mrs Maria, please give me a moment to welcome on the balcony a delegation of military attachés to the Republic of Slovenia. Hello! / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u124	Thank you for your word and a very warm greeting to all present! The proposal for the amendment of the Insurance Act brings solutions that the Democratic Party of Pensioners considers acceptable enough to support the bill. Thus, the novelty provides that when determining premiums and insurance at individual level, insurance undertakings must not take into account the personal circumstances of the sex. Insurance companies may process gender data for the purpose of establishing bookings and internal pricing, for determining reinsurance prices, for marketing and advertising and for assessing life and health insurance risks. The total value of the investment of the insurance undertaking in the investments of the same issuer, that is to say the debtor, and the related persons shall not exceed 10 % of the technical provisions. Article 121 of the Insurance Act, which sets out the type of investment permitted, shall apply to insurance investments in which the insurer assumes an investment risk. The insurance agent or intermediary shall act against the insurance undertaking and the insurance undertaking in such a way that its unique identification is possible at any time. The proposal for a novelty also provides that the Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency shall carry out the tasks under the responsibility of the Insurance Supervisory Agency if it is not provided in the Insurance Act that another Authority of the Agency is responsible for the performance of those tasks. As a matter of fact, in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party, we will support the proposal of the pensioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group has the floor – Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary of State with co-workers! Insurance as an economic activity is of particular importance to the economy and the population, since its main function is to create security. The importance of insurance is increasing with development, which also shows an increasing share of the insurance premium in the gross social product. In the New Slovenia Group, we estimate that we need to be very careful about the insurance industry, that is, more carefully, the country should stimulate and encourage citizens and organisations in particular to secure property – climate change unfortunately brings us more and more destructive grips – and to secure what is most precious to us and we have only one, it is for life insurance. It is precisely an aspect of greater insurance security that is one of the key reasons for the amendment of this law, while at the same time aligning the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia with the legal order of the European Union. On the basis of the European Directive on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment and treatment of men and women in access to and supply of goods and services, the Court of Justice of the European Union hereby prohibits differences in insurance premiums and other benefits due to the sex of an insured person. In accordance with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, we are now adapting our national legislation, i.e. the Insurance Act. From now on, the personal circumstances of the sex shall not be a different factor in determining premiums and the payment of insurance. However, insurance companies will continue to be able to process gender data for the formulation of reservations and also for the marketing of life and health insurance products, but insurance companies will not be allowed to set different amounts of premiums and other benefits for women and men in individual contracts. Greater insurance for insured persons will be achieved by means of a form to be prescribed by the Agency for Life Insurance, Accidental and Health Insurance. This form will achieve greater transparency for the insurer, as its content will show the costs of the conclusion of these insurance and, above all, will show all the key information on the characteristics of the insurance product. This information has so far been scattered across the various places in the supply, the annex to the offer, the policy, the annex to the policy, the general conditions, the additions to the general conditions and so on. Thus, the insurer has so far not been able to have a comprehensive view of the content of the insurance contract it has signed. That is why we are now putting an end to this lack of legislation. The new insurance law will make an important contribution to reducing the risk of insurers in concluding insurance contracts in the field of life, accident and health insurance and will increase their legal security, so Members of the New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Insurance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, that is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on amendments to public procurement laws and amendments. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, who will also present, in addition to the proposal for a law on amendments to the Public Procurement Act, a proposal for amendments to the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and the Field of Postal Services and the Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement in the field of Defence and Security. Dr. Dejan Krušec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! I would like to present the amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act under point 5, which is before you, as well as the amendment of the Public Procurement Act in the so-called infrastructure area, is said, in the water, energy, transport and postal services, and under point 7 of the Proposal for a Public Procurement Act in the field of defence and security. All these three laws will be discussed below. With these laws, we establish a more transparent, simpler, de-birocratic and information-supported public procurement system. These laws transpose the Defence and Security Procurement Directive into our legal order, but the main part of the changes in the novelties relates to the improvement of the public procurement system. So these three laws represent the first step in the broader reform of this system. The reform of this system will follow immediately after the modernisation of the European Public Procurement Directives. The key solutions in these three laws are as follows. The amendments to these laws allow for the subsequent submission of evidence which is not essential for the classification of tenders. This ensures a substantive decision on tenders while at the same time reducing the costs of tenderers to participate in procurement procedures, making the procurement process simpler. The contracting authorities will only be able to request from tenderers during the tendering phase those elements relating to the technical specifications of the subject matter. The law also establishes a so-called single information system where it will be possible to verify in one place that the tenderer or his offer meets the contracting authority’s requirements, the so-called e-file. This provider's file will cover basic data and, with the establishment of unnecessary administrations, will be burdened by suppliers, contracting entities and also the authorities that maintain official records. In view of the economic situation, certain requirements concerning the basic competence of the tenderer, which were identified as compulsory in the previous year, are re-defined as admissible in these novelties. Therefore, the contracting authorities themselves will determine, in the light of the subject matter of the contract, the market situation and other circumstances, which exclusion conditions are to be taken into account in the award of the contract. The novels also introduce control over the conclusion of an annex which increases the scope of the object or value of the contract. This, of course, means more prudence in the use of public funds. This also reduces corruption risks as greater transparency is ensured with regard to the possible connection between the tenderer and the persons involved in the award of the contract. As a result of increasing dumped prices, additional criteria for checking abnormally low tenders are also set out in the proposal for new EU directives. This ensures a more consistent verification of abnormally low tenders and reduces the possibility of cartel arrangements between tenderers. On the basis of the proposed amendments to public procurement legislation, the Ministry of Finance and the Government expect more transparency, competitiveness, economy and, above all, greater weight in the substantive decision-making of procurement procedures. Now, in particular, the law on public procurement in the field of defence and security. This law transposes the directive governing public procurement into our legal order. The defence and confidential procurement on the basis of which the contracting authorities had to obtain the consent of the special interdepartmental commission prior to the execution of the contract and did not have to carry out the competitive procurement procedure. The amendment to this Act shall govern such procurement in a manner similar to the usual procurement, taking into account the specificities of the field. It takes into account all the above, the Government proposes that the National Assembly support the laws in question. At the same time, we propose that, after a second hearing, if business conditions are met, the National Assembly will also carry out a third consideration of the proposal at this meeting. In order to transpose the Defence and Security Directive, it is necessary to ensure the simultaneous implementation of these three laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u130	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! As the Vice-President has already said, on 7 November the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy addressed this bill. This bill, as has already been said, has also been tabled by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. In doing so, the Committee adopted the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly with comments on certain provisions of the proposal and the opinion of the Information Officer. The Committee was also informed of proposals for amendments to the Committee of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. On the basis of both opinions, the coalition parliamentary groups tabled amendments to Articles 5, 7, 12 and 13 of the legislative proposal. The presentation of the amended articles shows the applicant's efforts, according to the Government, following the establishment of a more transparent, simpler and information-based system to regulate public procurement. In its presentation of the opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stressed that the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups to 5, 7 and 13 follow the amendments to this service. The Committee's thematically rich debate touched, among other things, the so-called "in-house" public procurement regarding the allocation of European funds, the financial implications of the introduction of the information system, the more appropriate treatment of small enterprises and the justification for the non-selective conduct of the professional examinations of all employees in the field of public procurement. At the same time, discussers were interested in the government's assessment of the current regulation of the public procurement system and in the expected implementation of systemic changes to the exposed area. The Committee also noted that a new European directive on the system for public procurement in the European Union was in preparation. On this basis, a major legal reform of the entire field of public procurement in Slovenia is expected to take place in a year and a half. In addition, it was explained that the share of so-called green orders in Slovenia will be able to reach a European average of 12% in a short time. At the time of its consideration, the Committee, pursuant to Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, also adopted the amendment to Article 13. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee further defined the amendments tabled and adopted amendments of the coalition groups by Articles 5, 7 and 12 of the proposal. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law. In the light of the amendments adopted, Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provides for the text of the amended draft law as an integral part of the report of the Committee. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group – Mrs Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Secretary of State with a team, colleagues and colleagues! The importance of public procurement in the functioning and development of the economy is, of course, undeniable. In the European Union, public procurement accounts for around 11% of gross domestic product, unfortunately we do not have this data for Slovenia. The latest report, which can be found on the Ministry of Finance's website, provides information on the number of such orders in 2007. However, there are some grades. These estimates are that we have a share of public procurement there somewhere of about 7% of gross domestic product and, for example, about 25% of all budget expenditure goes to the public procurement account. This means about 2 billion 200 thousand, 2 billion 500 thousand euros, which is a very large cake to be distributed, and, of course, an appetite for who gets this cake, who gets more from it, is very large. Clearly, however, the rules of public procurement are those that must be well written to limit these excessive appetites to some legal good framework. These rules must ensure that public procurement is cost-effective and transparent. The amendment to the law that we are considering today is one of many in recent years. The fact that laws change so quickly in this area is, of course, not good and creates some unrest and some uncertainty both between the tenderers and the contracting authorities. As we have heard, we are about to face new developments. We expect these new changes to be considered once we consider that this obligation to transpose the directives into our legislation will be done more carefully than we did in 2006, when we did it for the first time. Indeed, at that time we have submitted to these demands that we transfer to our legal framework everything that the directives require of us and, just in case, a little more. Thus we have made this system terribly complicated and opaque, and this does not contribute to any transparency and more efficient management. Who paid the highest price for this? The highest price of this complex non-transparent system was paid by small, small and medium-sized enterprises. The public procurement market has been managed and is likely to be controlled by large bidders who have very skillfully exploited all the weaknesses and shortcomings of the law. This account probably spent a lot more public money than it could have been spent, and many subcontractors have struggled to get to work, of course agreeing to all possible and impossible requirements of the main operators and, in the end, very often without the payment they earned. The economy, especially a small number, is, of course, particularly closely monitoring this area and has been alerting these irregularities for many years. This change that we have before us today brings some corrections in this area, and we therefore support it and believe that this will make the procurement market more accessible and more equitable for small businesses as well. We also welcome the suspension of the professional examination for public servants participating in procurement procedures. For we believe that the exam itself does not yet mean quality. We have to work on quality, on education, but, of course, these exams bring an additional administrative obstacle, and last but not least, an additional financial burden for the country. One more thing! In view of the experience we have in Slovenia with the operation of information systems, we note that there is great caution in the establishment of a database where information on the fulfilment of the most common conditions regarding the ability of the provider will be collected at one point. This is a good solution, but let this be a basis for simplification and for greater transparency of the system, not an opportunity for easy and quick profit from someone who will sell software to the country. They already have these bases in place in the EU. We expect to discuss significantly broader content in the coming year. What we have today is welcome, however, because we believe that it is making some positive changes to the public procurement market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats – Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u134	Madam Vice President, thank you so much for saying this! Let me say here that, in this debate, we will bring together all the views of the Public Procurement Act as well as its two twin public procurement laws in the field of water, energy, transport and postal services, as well as in the field of defence. Let me recall the words of Janez Janša, who as leader of the opposition promised that 200 million euros could be saved annually in public procurement. It is not possible to detect this promise from the draft budgets, as well as from the proposed solutions for implementation. Of course, it should be stressed that the price of public procurement for Social Democrats cannot be the only criteria. We know what happened in the past with the dumped prices of some large, say, construction transactions and then the chaining of the annexes, which ultimately resulted in the price of the public service being delivered, the price of the ordered construction business being significantly higher at the end than if, on the basis of the relevant guarantees, they had decided on the procurement procedures at the time of the award of the public contracts. At the same time, it is a particularly interesting area, which follows with other financial effects, to mention the area of green procurement, where we also expect the Government to serve with such solutions in subsequent changes. We believe that the public procurement system needs to be improved, but of course we cannot avoid the obvious that the Government has already taken a step back in the effectiveness of public procurement by abolishing the single procurement agency. Public procurement remains an important generator of economic growth, already mentioned in 2007 and the fact that Slovenia then created 13% of gross domestic product by issuing public contracts. In any event, this area is important because, through these procedures, we must ensure fair and transparent procurement, transfer of public money for the conduct of certain transactions to the private sector and there must be sufficient safeguards in the system to ensure that such work is indisputably transparent and is in the interest of the public. Social Democrats in this regard point out that there are still cases where there are too many delays in public procurement procedures with complaints to the State Audit Commission. At the same time, a lack of control over public procurement, such as a good and current case – the example of Maribor’s radars, can be observed. With regard to the legal protection of public procurement, we regret that the Government has not made corrections to the relevant legislation. As you know, the previous Government has adopted the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures and it can be concluded from what current cases it is necessary to extend the basis for the enforcement of nullity in those legal transactions where there is obvious illegality or substantial infringements of legislation. Of course, the area of public procurement also needs to be regulated in terms of improving the use of European funds. According to the European Court of Auditors, in the case of Slovenia, there are too many errors in the use of European funds. In the opinion of the Social Democrats, public procurement control and control over the use of European funds should be linked. This would make fewer mistakes in drawing on European funds and faster pumping, which is important in terms of promoting the economy. Let me conclude with the expectation that we will continue to implement a uniform and compulsory practice in the process; a uniform obligation to award all types of public contracts, so that all contracts concluded on the basis of procurement will be adequately equipped with anti-corruption clauses, and therefore that such procurements can be broken down with established corruption and clienteleism. Experience from the past shows that this area is necessary to do so, for it still exists [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] such or other authorities as to the type of possibility of misuse of public money. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the National List – Mr Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u136	Say good-bye again! First of all, I will talk about all these three laws at the same time and all three of us will be supported in the Civil Gazette. These laws bring debarcation, simplification of procurement procedures, thus, of course, lower costs for those who apply for public contracts than for those who carry out them. Of course we welcome that. It is also right to take additional control in additional contracts under so-called annexes, and of course all of these things, including the introduction of a European directive on procurement in the defence field, which in some ways demystifies this area of procurement and brings them closer to the regular procedure. There could have been a lot going on here because it was all secret. Now it is divided into the fact that really only exceptional things are those, especially in the security field, that can still be followed by specific procedures. But the rest are run in the same way as all public procurement. Personally, as I said, we welcome these changes, but of course we do not imagine that any legislation will solve the problem of public procurement. My personal opinion is that these procedures should be much simpler. I have already said many times what is the essence of public procurement and the law in this area – to bring as many good purchases as possible into the country's consumption, as cheaply as possible, which means opening up a space of competition, finding more offers for each thing and choosing the most favourable. I also said that if we could write such a law on two sides, it would be the best, easiest and most effective, and also the easiest thing to control. When I look at these budgets, I estimate on all items that we have about four to four and a half billion spending in this way. This is already more than 10% of our GDP. I have said many times in my discussions on saving that this is one segment that is very important and that we could save at least a billion euros a year in this segment. Here I thought of 25 percent, which I think is that if we were looking at things that have happened in the past, it would probably be possible to do that. Let's look at the road programs, look at the power plant, look at the drugs. Let's just look at the case, if we remember how we bought the operating tables, what were those differences, how many of these things were there. [[...]] If the matter were very simple, very transparent and clearly controlled, such things would not happen. However, in order to prevent corruption in this area by law and by law, we know that for four billion there are a large number of those who are interested in doing business and getting as much money as possible from the country to carry out these transactions. But here I think we're going to have a hard time doing this, because no matter what we write, the crafty people will be able to find holes in the marriage and get nice and good orders in the company. Here you need a different approach and other things. I think it's one of the great things that has been done quite differently than in the Public Procurement Act; it's one of the supervisory systems introduced by Mr Klemenčič and the Anti-Corruption Agency, which have publicly shown that everyone can see it, including the journalists, both the competition that has applied to the calls, who gets the jobs, under what conditions, who does the biggest things. I think this is a seemingly irrelevant matter, but much more has been done/ordered in public procurement. It also immediately showed what things are politically negotiated between friends here and what are serious business between business providers that are all taken into account in the same way. In short, more control should be sought in this way. But I think and I hope that we will be more consistent here and that we will be able to find this billion reserves in the coming years, not only 200 million, so many of them can be saved without concern in all areas. Of course, now that we are in crisis, we are investing a little less, but tomorrow it may be better. Once again, we will support all three changes to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party – Mr Roman Zveglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, good afternoon! In front of us is the first of two amended laws on amendments and additions to public procurement laws, both in general and in the water, energy, transport and postal services. As we have heard, the novelties follow the alignment of the Slovenian acquis with the European acquis, in particular the new European procurement regime in the field of defence and security. At the same time, some minor but necessary changes are being introduced into public procurement legislation with the aim of a more efficient public procurement system. Among them, it is particularly important to establish a single information system in which contracting authorities will check, at one point, information on providers collected from official records. The establishment of an information system under the e-procurement project follows the adopted e-government action plan and, particularly commendablely, is financed by the European Social Fund in 85%. Under this project, public procurement will be fully supported electronically and will be available to all institutions in public administration. We also abolish the obligation to carry out a public procurement examination, since in this area, as we know, changes are the only constant and only short-term evidence of knowledge of legislation. Persons who run and decide on procurement procedures, such as around 6 000 500, should, in accordance with the law in force, carry out this examination by the end of 2012. However, their knowledge is essential, not that they have paper to know. The increased efficiency of the procurement procedures will, in the new way, also be ensured by the abandonment of certain requirements regarding the basic competence of tenderers identified as mandatory by the 2011 amendments. The contracting authority will also require the submission of evidence which is not necessary for the evaluation of tenders only from the most favourable tenderer. This will reduce the costs of tenderers participating in public procurement procedures. The amendment of public procurement legislation also changes the mandatory exclusion conditions of tenderers, which we have identified with the 2011 amendment much more stringently than European legislation and, as we often do, we have become more papal than the pope. A mandatory exclusion clause will continue to be linked to proof by the tenderer that all tax obligations and all social security contributions have been settled; except that we have made this provision slightly more viable and, in the case of genuinely low debt amounts, we are talking about some 10 euros, this does not mean fully automated bureaucratic exclusion. As stated at the outset, in this amendment of the law, as well as in those we will consider immediately below, the changes in several areas are practically identical, so we will support the laws in the Slovenian People's Party and further give some views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Möderndorfer, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u140	Dear Chairman! Please stop the work of the National Assembly for at least an hour. We have criminals in the house, and more than one third of my Members can no longer participate in the work of the National Assembly and that I can even see what it is about to allow for at least normal working conditions. We live in a country where the police seem to be very fond of walking around the National Assembly. I think we need to clear up the basics first so that we know what we are doing in this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Given your procedural proposal and the fact that, as Vice-President of the National Assembly now holding the meeting, I have not been informed of this, I will agree with your procedural proposal. So we resume the session at 2.35 p.m. and 2.40 p.m. because it's 13.37 p.m. I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly in accordance with Article 73, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides that the President may suspend the work of the National Assembly during the meeting and determine when to proceed. So at 2.40 p.m., we resume the meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our adjourned session of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the Head of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, has informed me that he has received a phone call from the criminals and has informed the President of the National Assembly of this matter and that he has therefore proposed that the meeting be suspended on a procedural basis. Of course, this information received was also confirmed by the president of the National Assembly, Dr. Gregor Virant. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia – Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. The draft law regulates only the most urgent changes necessary to comply with the acquis of the European Union and to ensure easier access to the public procurement market for Slovenian economic operators. Greater competitiveness will be possible and more cost-effective use of public funds. The proposed novelty will address the shortcomings that have emerged in practice and which have so far prevented cross-border participation of contracting entities in the award of public contracts. A greater efficiency of the procurement process is being pursued and it is also envisaged to establish a single information system in which contracting authorities will check, at one point, those information about the tenderer for which the official record is kept. The proposal encourages the implementation of the short-chain principle, which means that we want to ensure that local care also becomes part of the practice of Slovenian public procurement under European law. The proposal for a law should highlight the removal or reduction of corruption risks in public procurement. On a proposal from the Commission to prevent corruption, it is stipulated in the draft law that a staff member or other person who leads, participates or decides on any stage of the procurement procedure, his or her supervisor or contracting authority must immediately inform him of any conflict of interest. In the DeSUS Group, we advocate faster and more efficient procurement procedures, and we will therefore also support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u144	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group has the floor – Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! I am convinced that there is no one who has dealt with any procurement procedures in the past who would not share with me the view that public procurement procedures are too demanding, too complicated and too normal for us. In the past, we wish that every step in the procurement process should be consistently regulated and defined, not only have we taken over all European directives into our legislation, but we have also specifically laid down detailed procedural and material provisions that would otherwise be much better left to public contracting authorities to decide each time they award a public contract. Thus we have received a truly comprehensive and complex legislative framework, which will indeed need to be overhauled thoroughly in the future. In Novi Slovenija we advocate simplifying public procurement procedures, in fact we have managed to integrate this into our coalition commitment, which is that the public procurement system is simplified and debirocratised. The selection of the tenderer must be based on the most cost-effective decision and not necessarily on the lowest price, as has often been the case in practice, and public procurement legislation has not achieved its objective. With the current amendments to public procurement legislation, we are working to establish a more transparent and simpler, de-de-barcised and information-supported public procurement system, which will be achieved mainly through the following measures or through a set of innovations. First time. When awarding a contract, the contracting authority may require that tenderers submit only a budget and elements relating to the technical specifications of the subject matter of the contract. Another time. An important innovation introduced by the amendment of the Public Procurement Act is also the abolition of compulsory training and compulsory examination of public procurement for those public servants who participate in procurement procedures. Thirdly, we would stress the importance of establishing a single information system. The e-procurement system will eliminate extensive administration in public procurement procedures, and the contracting authorities will not have to adapt the extensive documentation of the required evidence at all times. By introducing a single information system, contracting authorities in one place will be able to verify the information on the provider for which the official record is kept, as well as certain data if the tenderer is interested in their publication and will give its consent, this is mainly for the provider’s references. If we are talking about e-procurement, we are talking about information support for public procurement, to remind ourselves that we have also been paying attention to the relatively high number or value of this system, which is estimated at approximately €2.2 million, and at the same time we have warned the government that when making the application or software solutions, we should be extremely careful, but also require the Ministry of Finance – which the Ministry has also promised – that the members of the Finance Committee will be given an overview of all the costs of maintaining the applications, so that there are software solutions as well as the maintenance of hardware, networks and so on. In fact, we estimate that these costs are extremely high, we speak for the ministries and the bodies in the composition, and that we probably still have a lot of reserves here. Members of the New Slovenia Group will support the amendment of the Public Procurement Act, but we are aware that public procurement legislation will still need to be thoroughly upgraded in the future. They are currently in the stage of adopting a new directive of the European Union in this area, which will have to be implemented in our national legislation, which will further simplify procurement procedures. Since legislative solutions are identical in the field of the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and Postal Services, I also announce the support of Members of the New Slovenia Group for the novelties of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The text is by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia – Mr Jerko Čehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President! First, let me say that this is Jerko Chehovin, not his clone. I also have to say that this position also applies to point 6, so that we will not make a specific point of view. The public procurement system itself is supposed to be fast and transparent. There is none of this in Slovenia. In Positive Slovenia we advocate a comprehensive public procurement reform in Slovenia. Here we are thinking about the systemic regulation of the whole area, so that subscribers can devote themselves better and better to content and not as it has been so far, only to forms. We still believe that the derogation from compulsory education for employees participating in public procurement procedures is a mistake. As you yourself have found, it is often the practice of the one that determines how the process is conducted. Here I am referring to the whole procedure: from the preparation of the publication of the contract to the award of the contract itself. Unfortunately, the practice that has been put into effect is such that employees, in fear of formal errors, deal with the content of the subject matter in a sub-link and thus revolve around in a vicious circle of annexes, a circle of exaggerated requirements for unnecessary or excessive requirements by the contracting authorities. On the other hand, we can all work together on the basis of the Commission's views on preventing corruption up to the Court of Auditors' opinions that a particular tenderer is often preferred in the context of the contract itself. Thus, in public procurement, it is possible to track the requirement for precisely defined trademarks, the content requirements which already exclude more suitable tenderers and offers at the start. We therefore do not believe that the primary objective of public procurement is not to achieve the best quality-to-price situation when establishing the strongest competition between tenderers. We all know cartel deals between constructionists, never-ending stories with annexes. Here I would take the thought of Dr. Soltes, who also identified similar and bad connections with information service providers. An important difference between the construction and information sectors in the execution of public contracts was found only in the presence of annexes. These IT providers do not conclude, but they just marry a contracting authority with upgrades and licences. It's a wedding, and divorce usually costs a lot. In the field of information technologies, a decision for a particular provider is also the most common means of a subsequent long-term partnership related to the maintenance, upgrades, education and renewal of potential licences, and we are back in the spiral of limited competition and questionable prices. In all areas of public procurement, we can certainly see that we have problems and that is why Positive Slovenia is committed to a comprehensive reform of the public procurement system. This reform must establish effective mechanisms to prevent unfair business practices. This can only be achieved by means of transparent procedures at all stages. The reform should also include strategic orientations and public procurement should link with the strategic orientation of Slovenia and, through the purchasing power of the public sector, promote the acquisition of goods of higher social value; hence, promote innovation, public health, employment, support the fight against climate change. Here I should also mention green public procurements, which would make at least 50% of all public procurements green – that is, in line with the criteria set by Europe. If I mention here a few other examples of good practices of useful and innovative solutions that at the same time support the fight against climate change, while also providing a certain savings of public resources, we will all know what I am talking about – an example of the city of Vienna, which, both with a very simple measure, such as the installation of water saving facilities in public buildings, schools and kindergartens, generates savings of €1.5 million per year. The cost of accommodation itself is, of course, much lower. In Greece, which we look at with a lot of ridicule, by buying recycled paper for the public sector, they have reached a lower price than ordinary paper. The city of Kolding in Denmark has achieved a 10% reduction in the public procurement budget through a procurement policy that fully takes into account environmental aspects. There are still cases like this. I would also like to draw attention to the criteria of the lowest price, which unfortunately continues to be maintained. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] has become the subject of manipulative behaviour. [[...]] It seems that this criterion makes it easier for contracting authorities to justify their compliance with the principles of effective use of public funds. Moreover, they do not have to work with the criteria for the most economically advantageous offers under the tendering conditions and at the choice of the contractor, which are not necessarily the cheapest. The broad application of the minimum price criterion promotes unfair competition between tenderers and their inability to cover business costs. This affects subcontractors and employees in particular, prolonging the duration of the contract and ultimately significantly more expensive than expected. The key problem of selecting operators according to the minimum price principle is also linked to the insufficient tender documentation. Therefore, should I conclude, Positive Slovenia will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement. However, the Ministry of Finance is expected to present its forecast of almost comprehensive procurement reforms as soon as possible. The reform must pursue the objectives of effective public procurement, transparent public procurement and a system that will be user-friendly and user-friendly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u148	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on public procurement in water, energy, transport and postal services within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The government's position has already been presented. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report to the Committee, I give the floor to the member of the Magi. Damjani Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u149	Thank you, Chairman for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 9th session. 11. 2012 discussed the proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the Law on public procurement in water, energy, transport and postal services submitted by the Government to the Assembly. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. In accordance with Article 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, two amendments to the bill were tabled by coalition parties. The Committee was also provided with additional material, such as proposals for amendments to the Committee of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the opinion of the information officer. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained that the purpose of the proposal is to establish a more transparent, simpler, less bureaucratic and information-based public procurement system. He further presented key solutions to the bill, namely the possibility of providing ex post evidence, the establishment of a single information system, taking into account the economic situation and liquidity problems of Slovenian companies, the introduction of control over the conclusion of annexes and the identification of additional criteria for verifying abnormally low tenders. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service also spoke on the comments made by the services in writing and added some warnings concerning the two amendments. She also added comments from the service regarding the offence and pointed out that it would be more technically appropriate to describe the actual state of the offence. With regard to the comments made by the representative of the office at the meeting, the representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that the information system was conceived as a system in which the provider itself proposes evidence that does not come from official records. As regards the mode of regulation, he also explained that the procedure would be regulated in a specific regulation which would be in line with the information officer. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments tabled. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended amended legislation has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian People's Party's Group and by Mr Roman Žveglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u151	Your Honor, good day again! Let me get on with where I ended up earlier. The amendment of the procurement law also introduces the provision that tenderers, where the court has legally confirmed their compulsory settlement and are thus obliged to comply with all obligations to the parties under judicial supervision, will no longer automatically be excluded from the procurement procedure. This is in line with the desire to help those companies with healthy cores in the economy that are trying to survive, and it would not be right that they are already essentially excluded only because of their failure in the past, if it turns out that the ongoing transactions can be completely comparable to the others. The new proposal for legislative amendments also brings the elimination of non-compliance with the acquis of the European Union due to the provision adopted in 2011. The procurement procedure may not involve a tenderer whose member of the management or supervisory authority or more than a quarter of the owner has performed one such function in the last two years in the company over which the insolvency or enforcement proceedings were initiated. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has concluded that these reasons for the selection of the tenderer were discriminatory and disproportionate, and thus unconstitutional. Your Honor! The end, however, is to say the following. There is no need to be a top-notch public procurement expert in order to establish, on the basis of previous experience, that procurement legislation as a whole is inadequate. Repeating calls, numerous appeals procedures, rejections, exclusions of tenderers, irregular relations, dumped offers, unrealistic evaluations, allowing a number of annexes and so on, all of this suggests that public procurement legislation is too complicated and too opaque. Because of such extensive legislation, it happens that its users, remember, more than 6 000 500 are on the contracting side alone, explain it very differently. Some stick very consistently to each branch, others looking again for possible holes, and all of this harms our economy, at times when we least need it. Let us recall how many public projects are linked to European funds, which today is the only fresh money we can get without paying high interest. The legal basis is also completely unprepared for the current economic situation, as some companies are very weak. They have funding problems, there are too many complications, because during the execution of the contract we face bankruptcys by operators or individual subcontractors. Then there is also the problem of foreign suppliers, for whom it appears that we are far less consistent in verifying compliance with the conditions than with domestic companies, but the rules must apply very uniformly to all. We therefore expect the Slovenian People's Party to prepare a completely new law in this area: simpler, more concrete and very clearly defined rules. We are aware that this is not an easy provision, but we are convinced that this is one of the things that we must carry out in this government mandate. There are attempts to correct certain inadequacies in the upcoming novelties, but in our opinion this is not and cannot be a long-term solution. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed amendments to public procurement legislation, as they go in the right direction, but, as has already been said, we need much more in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u152	Thank you very much. DeSUS Group and Mrs Maria Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u153	Good-bye! As a result of the new European procurement regime in the water, defence and security field and the creation of an additional reason for excluding economic operators from public procurement procedures, Slovenia needs to bring the acquis into line with European law, which is also the aim of the proposed law. Unconformity with the acquis of the European Union resulted from the adoption of an amendment to Article 18 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act. Against this decision, an initiative was put in place to assess constitutionality in terms of limiting the free economic initiative, protecting the right to work and the right to judicial and legal protection. The Constitutional Court found that the provision in question was unconstitutional and repealed, as the distinction introduced by the provision was discriminatory and disproportionate and the reasons for the distinction were not really justified. The proposed novelty also aims to address the shortcomings that have emerged in practice and which have so far made it impossible for contracting authorities to cooperate across borders in the award of public contracts. The possibility of awarding orders to Slovenian companies which are in liquidity difficulties has so far been very limited. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we are also aware of the concerns of the information officer regarding the management of the single official record. As the law follows a more effective procurement procedure, we support it in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Patrizia Šulin is also on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u155	I'm here to greet you! Madam President, thank you for your word. Public procurement legislation has changed several times over the past few years, often in order to prevent the practice of its provisions from being played out in practice with us. The procurement system is based on the principles arising from the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in particular the principle of free movement of goods and services and freedom of establishment. The proposed law aims to harmonise the Slovenian acquis with the European one. The proposal follows a greater efficiency of the procurement process, allowing the supply to be complemented by evidence that is not necessary for the classification and evaluation of tenders alone. The contracting authority shall only invite the most favourable tenderer to supplement this type of supplement, as it does not make sense to verify the completeness of all tenders. The possibility of subsequent submission of evidence also reduces the costs of tenderers to participate in the procurement process. Taking into account the economic situation, the measures taken and envisaged for savings in the public sector and the anticipated contribution of the public procurement examination, the obligation to carry out this examination shall be deleted by law and, instead, by the Ministry responsible for finance, in cooperation with the Ministry of Administration, the Ministry of Public Procurement will carry out more frequent training and improvement in the field of public procurement. In order to address or limit corruption risks in public procurement, the Commission's proposal to prevent corruption provides that the staff member or the other person who leads, participates or decides on any stage of the procurement procedure, his or her supervisor or the contracting authority must immediately inform him of any conflict of interest. A direct or indirect link shall be deemed to exist with the tenderer if the person conducting the procurement procedure, who is involved in the preparation of the tender documents or parts thereof or at any stage decides on the procurement procedure directly or indirectly related to the successful tenderer, in a legal relationship, the extra-legal community, the registered same-sex community, the joint household, the blood kinship of the type, the blood kinship of the third generation to the listed third generation, the kinship of the second generation, the adoptive parent, the adoptive parent, the foster parent, in a private business or labour relationship with the provider, its associate with more than 25 per cent ownership, the legal representative or the procurator. Contractors will have to verify tenders if they are abnormally low if they are questioned about the possibility of fulfilling the contract or if they deviate by more than 50 % from the average value of timely or complete offers and by more than 20 % below the next most favourable timely or complete offer, but only if the contracting entity has received at least four timely offers. The Ministry of Finance will also have to keep records of providers with negative references. The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Administration will also need to establish a single information system where key information will be collected at one point from the official records of economic operators acting as tenderers in procurement procedures. Where the State Audit Commission, in accordance with this Act, lays down the conditions for the initiation of an infringement proceedings against the contracting authority, the tenderer, the subcontractor and its responsible persons or collects additional documents and evidence of a possible infringement of the contracting authority, the tenderer, the subcontractor, the subcontractor and their responsible persons to the State Audit Commission no later than three working days after the adoption of its written appeal, they shall withdraw all documents and evidence to which they have been requested by the State Audit Commission. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group will support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and the Field of Postal Services.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u156	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Procedurally, please, Mr. Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u157	I'm out.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u158	You're withdrawing? Thank you very much. Mr. Weber, you want procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u159	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u160	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u161	Thank you for your word. I wish to proceed on a case-by-case basis in accordance with Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before we proceed with the vote, I would like to propose that the Committee of the President of the National Assembly meet and discuss the conditions for the work of the groups of Members. This is also an integral part of Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure, because according to this information we have received, at least one of the Group of Members, i.e. the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, is still in a position when it cannot participate in the work of the National Assembly. Also in the last college that we had with the President of the National Assembly on police investigations in the National Assembly, it is agreed that the President, as head of the parliamentary groups, will keep us regularly informed of what is going on. On a procedural basis, I would suggest that in this break, which we also have before the vote, the President convenes a college and informs us of what is going on in the National Assembly and that we agree on the conditions under which the Group of Members will be able to work in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The president's coming. I think he'll be able to explain himself if he wants to. I don't have any special information. However, Mr Weber, we do have another brief point on the table and then the suspension of the sitting until the vote. Just a minute. Apparently, the President agrees with me. It also suggests that we proceed with this last point. In fact, we have only a presentation of the views of the groups of Members, and then he will act as he thinks he is right. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL FOR A PUBLIC ORDER IN THE FIELD OF DEFENCE AND SECURITY. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The government has already explained its position. Like the other two in this area, the draft law was addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. For the presentation of the report, I give the word mag. Mark Pogačnik. You may also respond to this report if there is nothing special and we continue to present the views of the groups. The first is Mr Janez Ribič on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u163	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! This novelty also follows the alignment of the Slovenian acquis with the European order, in particular the novelty of the European procurement regime in the field of defence and security. However, the rule remains that no Member State is obliged to provide information which it considers to be contrary to the essential interests of its security. The Public Procurement Act is an important law as it lays down rules on how to choose the tenderer fairly and thus use public funds as rationally and prudently as possible. Member and Members of the Slovenian People's Party hope that the novels will help improve procedures. However, any change certainly entails additional administrative burdens on all users of this procedure, as many amendments make the law untransparent. We therefore hope that we will have the opportunity and adopt a new, more modern and, above all, a transparent and shorter public procurement law as soon as possible. In terms of content, the procurement material shall be governed by both public and confidential procurement. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will also support this amendment of the law relating to public procurement in the field of defence and security, as we support transparency and supervision of procurement from public funds, and in particular we believe that these principles should apply to defence and security contracts. We therefore support the provisions that such contracts will also be published in the same way as public procurement in the so-called classical area, more than 5 million contracts in the Official Journal of the European Union. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that the provisions include somewhat stricter rules on the field of defence and security, since the law also regulates part of contracts of a confidential nature that have so far been in the domain of the Interdeputy Commission. As we say, the Member and Members of the Slovenian People's Party will also support this amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Ms. Marija Plevčak and the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u165	Thank you again for your word and a nice greeting! Among the measures adopted by the European Commission in recent years due to a more transparent and open market for defence procurement between the Member States of the European Union under Article 346 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the establishment of a European Defence Agency, which supports the acquisition after the establishment of such a market. The Republic of Slovenia became a participating Member State of the EDA in 2004. The efforts of the European Defence Agency following the establishment of a competitive market in the context of the implementation of contracts under Article 346 of the Treaty on European Union show very positive results. In particular, the regime ensures transparency in the publication of defence orders worth more than EUR million and fulfils the conditions under which the contract can be regarded as a defence order at all. In order to create a European Union market for defence and security equipment, it was found necessary to establish an adapted legislative framework primarily in order to meet information protection requirements, security of supply, ensuring compliance with the principle of competitiveness and transparency. These findings led to the creation of a new directive of the European Union regulating procurement in the defence and security fields. The law on procurement in the field of defence and security transposes that directive, which has been adopted with a view to unifying and introducing fair and transparent rules for defence and security contracts for all Member States. The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Jožef Horvat on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary of State with co-workers! The procurement of defence and security goods and services by 2009 was carried out by the Member States of the European Union only in accordance with the regulatory framework of the individual Member States, as there were no relevant rules at European Union level in this area. On 21 August 2009, a new directive on public procurement in the field of defence and security entered into force. This is an important shift, since so far the vast majority of sensitive public procurement in the field of defence and security has been exempted from the rules of the internal market and thus left to the diverse laws of the Member States. The directive, which will be the pillar of the European defence market, introduces transparent and competitive Community rules for the award of public procurement for arms, ammunition and military equipment and non-military procurement in the field of protection against terrorism. Member States have two years to transpose the Directive into national legislation. With a wide range of laws on public procurement in the field of defence and public procurement, this Directive is transposed into our legislation. It contains a number of innovations adapted to the specific needs of military and security procurement, the subject of which is the supply of military equipment as well as its parts, components or assemblies, the supply of sensitive equipment, construction, goods and services directly linked to military and sensitive equipment, and construction and services for specific military purposes or sensitive construction and sensitive services. Both the directive and this law that we are considering today continue to exclude individual orders. Member States will still be able to benefit from Article 346 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, provided that the conditions are met, this is the protection of the essential security interests of the Member State. These are cases where so strict security of supply requirements are needed or are so confidential or important for national sovereignty that the specific provisions of the Directive are not sufficient to safeguard the essential security interests of the Member States. The negotiated procedure after the previous publication is provided for as a standard procedure which gives contracting entities flexibility to adapt all the details of the contract. A significant difference compared to the Public Procurement Act is that contracting authorities in the field of defence and security will be able to negotiate with tenderers in the field of defence and security in the conduct of the negotiated procedure after the previous publication in any event, in order to meet the minimum conditions of the contracting authority. The new legislation on defence and security will facilitate access to defence markets in the Member States' area for companies engaged in defence activities. It can be understood as one of the important grounds for promoting economic activity, since our companies will be able to compete in public tenders in the Member States of the European Union with the production of military equipment or the provision of services in this area under the same conditions. The law on public procurement in the field of defence and security brings the necessary legality and transparency of procurement procedures to us in the defence and security field and therefore Members of the New Slovenia Group support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin and the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u169	Thank you very much, President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished Secretary of State! More because of the magnetogram I came up here because I'm not sure if this country still needs the opposition or if we're going to be deported next time. The bill we are considering today introduces into the Slovenian legal order the specificity of public procurement in the field of defence and security, which is regulated in a manner similar to the usual public procurement of ZJN-2B. It is the procurement of sensitive military equipment and the provision of military services and construction services as procurement of goods, services or buildings directly linked to military or sensitive equipment. In doing so, a part of the tender documentation may be marked with a degree of secrecy and shall be transmitted to consumers who comply with the safety requirements of the Secret Data Act. Slovenia received a second warning from Brussels for non-compliance with European defence procurement rules. Directive 2009/81/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council was already adopted on 13 July 2009. The deadline for the introduction of the directive in Slovenia was 20 August 2011. Why Slovenia has not communicated to the European Commission by July this year any measures on the implementation of this Directive are unknown. Positive Slovenia supports legislative additions that will allow for more transparent public procurement. We stress that public procurement must be equally accessible to all tenderers, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises, under the same conditions, where all technical and other outlets that do not leave doubts about the quantity and quality of the tender. The minimum price does not necessarily mean that the quality requirements of the tender are met. Thus, it will not be possible to conclude the annexes to the signed contracts and subsequently increase the prices offered. We have a public procurement system in place in Slovenia, which is almost intended for itself and technically and financially required for providers and contractors. The guarantee must be for almost the entire life of the project. The emphasis is on procedure and formalism, and because of its complexity it also contains corruption risks. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, we will support the proposal of the law, which does not, of course, mean that we are giving the map of the Bianca for the purchase of new patries.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mag. Ms Damjana Petavar on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u171	Once again a very nice greeting for everyone! In the past, defence and security contracts have been implemented by each Member State of the European Union under its own regulatory regime, which has not been harmonised at European Union level and in this area each has sought an emergency exit in the application of the Directive governing the award of works, goods and services in this area. This Directive was implemented in Slovenia in the provisions of the Public Procurement Act 2006. This has proved to be not particularly good in the field of defence and security in terms of meeting the requirements in the field of information protection, security of supply, transparency and the principle of competitiveness. These findings have led to the creation of a new directive regulating procurement in the defence and security fields. And this directive is now being transposed into a completely new law on procurement in the field of defence and security. The new law mainly deals with contracts that have so far been carried out under the Defence and Confidential Procurement Regulation. The new law provides greater legal certainty for tenderers in the process of procurement in the field of defence and security, which is linked to the introduction of the audit procedure, in order to avoid a wide range of public debates regarding the purchase of military equipment, as an assessment of the legal and economic purchases will be made for these authorised institutions in the Single Law on Legal Protection in the procurement process. The new law includes contracts awarded by contracting authorities in the defence and security fields, the subject of which are the supply of military equipment and its parts and the construction, goods and services directly linked to this area and the supply of sensitive equipment. The limit on the mandatory application of the provisions of the Directive is EUR 400,000 without VAT for the procurement of goods and services, or EUR 5 million for construction contracts. It is crucial in this law that counter-procurement under the law on public procurement in the field of defence and security is not permissible. And since they are not admissible, contracting entities have the possibility to commit operators to award part of the contract to subcontractors in a competitive manner. The contracting authority shall be able to even require that part of the contract be awarded to the subcontractor as a third party and may express a minimum share which may not exceed 30 % of the value of the contract and thereby open the new supply chain. This creates new business opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises in the defence and security sector, which is in line with the priorities of this government and the coalition contract, and therefore we support the proposed new law in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u172	Thank you. We have ended with the presentation of the parliamentary groups. The amendments have not been tabled and we are also concluding a second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timetable, we will vote on this proposal in half an hour in the framework of the vote, which is at 16:00. This concludes this agenda item. As a matter of fact, we'll continue in half an hour at 4:00. The consultation of the leaders of the parliamentary groups will be in room 217 in 10 minutes. So, a consultation of the leaders of the parliamentary groups at 3:40 p.m. We shall proceed with the vote at 16:00. If there are any changes, you will be informed.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u173	Dear colleagues, I am adjourning until 5 p.m. I'll explain why. Firstly, it was a wish to meet the leaders of the parliamentary groups at an informal meeting. The deadline we agreed on is 4:30. Secondly, I was informed that in any case the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia would require a 45-minute recess before the vote, so I thought it best to interrupt the meeting by 5 p.m. alone. At 4:30 an informal consultation of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, we will meet at the vote at 5:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u174	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. We are moving to vote on the proposals for decisions, so please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for an Law on Electronic Communications. We will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on electronic communications is suitable for further consideration. Procedurally, Mrs. Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u175	I propose you, Madam President, to adjourn the session for consultation before the vote in five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u176	I'm adjourning the session in five minutes. We'll pick her up at 5:10.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u177	We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda. We vote on the proposal for a conclusion that the proposal for electronic communications is suitable for further consideration. First, an explanation for the voice. On behalf of the parliamentary group Positive Slovenia will be explained by colleague Maja Dimitrovski.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia we will support the law at this stage, but we expect the Government to withdraw the dispute. If she insists on it, we will strongly oppose the adoption of the law in the Parliamentary Group. In our view, they have no human rights and should not have a price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u179	Thank you. We will therefore vote on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 6. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the bill will therefore be allocated to the home labour body, namely the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft law amending the Law on Children's Guidance with Special Needs We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. That is all I want to say is that no amendments were tabled in the second reading, so that we will actually decide on the bill. Nor have the Legislative and Legal Services and the Government informed me of any inconsistencies, so we will be able to vote on the bill as a whole. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, the mag will explain. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The Group of Social Democrats will vote against the proposed law. And the reasons are as follows. As soon as we considered the Public Finance Balance Act, the Social Democrats' Group proposed deleting the 91st article of the proposed law, which would suspend the implementation of the law for three months. Thus, the proposer, the government and the entire coalition knew that the content of the law was such that it could be enforced at the beginning of the school year. Thus, it is only a skilled manoeuvre, after which the coalition has gained time, in which it does not only intend to delay the beginning of an established law, which, by the way, reduces the costs, so much as to justify, if we are already in the middle of austerity measures, but will also make more comprehensive changes to the law adopted last year. This amendment to last year's law in many respects improves the law passed by the first government of Ivan Janša in 2006 and represents a step back for children with special needs compared to the previously adopted law on children's orientation with special needs. We cannot give support because we believe that the families of those who have children with special needs, and in particular children with special needs for an unnecessary one year more, are forced to exercise their rights and understanding of society one year later. We believe that empathy for children and families, if it does exist, should show that the Minister of Labour should not only write specific statements on the day of the adoption of the declaration on children's rights in the United Nations, but should make sure that these children actually improve their lives. This is the right of escort, which is now granted only to children with mobility problems, it is a different treatment of autism, and it could also indicate which elements are in the law that we are about to move back in a year, better resolved than in the current one, which guides it through. Last but not least, there is a decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u181	Mr Roman Jakič has an explanation on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, President. Today, positive Slovenia has already said in its presentation that it is very concerned. This marriage is not a political law and I don't know what it is, but it is a law that deals with children, children with special needs. And children cannot wait for legislation to come into effect once. I already told you this morning that in reality the second generation of autistic children are already missing some of the concerns that this country should give to these children. In the very explanation of our views, we have also said that we will not help children by objecting to this extension or by suspending it. Positive Slovenia will abstain from voting, but we will certainly monitor very closely what is going on in this area. For the second generation of children with special needs, we have been depriving them of something that they should belong to and that this country must always care about, is education, escorting, caring for these children with special needs.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u183	Mr Matevž Frangež also has an explanation for the vote on his behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u184	Yesterday we celebrated the 53rd anniversary of the adoption of the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of the Child. The Convention on the Rights of the Child was adopted on the same day thirty years later. He's a magician yesterday. Andrej Vizjak, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, on this occasion addressed the Slovenian public with a special MP. Thus, it says: "The period of uncertainty in which the whole world has come, with Slovenia no exception, we need to take particular care in the light of the best benefit of the child and implement those measures at the level of the country, which at least preserve the quality of life of the children and help those who have been in a position of assistance to the country due to special circumstances of life." This is especially true when the Minister says: "We will undoubtedly be guided by the following starting points and, between these starting points, to make it financially and organizationally easier for families, especially children with special needs or with more children to coordinate work and family life." We have been reminded of some of the opinions of parents of children of autistics, who are actually ridiculed by this messenger. How much effort, how much human care is needed, and when a state adopts an extremely good, modern law, in line with the entire professional public, it continues to be delayed. And that is exactly what Jakič said, namely that this assistance must be timely. We give this effective and timely assistance to these children at any time, with any extension of the validity of this law. I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u185	Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, do you remember the Personal Assistance Act? Do you remember? You voted against it. And today we're in a situation where we're helping a similar group. At that time, we said that we would fully address, fully resolve this year. None of this happened. Today we are still talking about a special group of children and their parents and taking care of these children, what will happen to them. It's not right, it's not nice and it's not good and I don't think you can look people like that in the eye because we're voting on something that's hurting someone who can't help himself. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u187	We vote on the bill. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 8. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The law has been adopted and I hereby conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. There were no amendments at second reading. The text of the law is harmonised and we can therefore decide on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. There were no amendments at second reading. The text of the law is harmonised, so we can move on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Nor did we have any amendments in the second reading, and the text of the bill is harmonised, so we can move on to a decision on the proposal for a full law. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153(2) of the Rules of Procedure, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Public Procurement Act. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and the Field of Postal Services. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. In the second reading, the amendments to the amended bill were not tabled, so we can move on to a decision on the bill. As a result of the amendments adopted on the home working body, the proposal for a law is not inconsistent, so that we can decide on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on public procurement in the field of defence and security. This is the third consideration of the bill. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, these are questions from Members and Members. We will vote on the proposals for conclusions to discuss the answers of the Prime Minister or ministers. First, the proposal concludes that the National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the Government's response to Mrs Alenka Pavlič's question on austerity measures. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 46. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to Mr Janko Webra's question on the State assets management plans. Voice explanation, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The question I put to the President of the Government was what were the plans of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to manage state assets. In particular, I have tried to draw attention to the very specific cases that have been taking place in Slovenia in the past period and are also crucial to our companies and to the jobs provided by these companies. I am pleased that, on the basis of the question raised, the Government has also decided to send a complaint to Brussels concerning, in their view, the unlawful aid granted to Elan in 2007-2008, because it has also provided support to Elan, who will also appeal to this conclusion, that it is an illegal aid from the State. With regard to Cimos, where the question of recapitalisation by the State of EUR 8 million is open, and also with regard to the fact that there are nearly 3,000 people directly and indirectly employed in this company, the question to which the President has not answered clearly is a question. I think we should discuss this. Nor did the President clearly reply why it is good that out of the 6 members of the Supervisory Board in the New Ljubljana Bank we have 5 foreigners planned, but we know that foreigners were in the authorities of this bank who approved the loans that are today identified as bad investments. It is a matter of great mistrust on our part that the bank will be run by foreigners. We have not agreed on this in the National Assembly, so I think it is right to discuss this in order to find out what is going on in the management of our assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u189	We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 47. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to Mr Roman Jakič's question on the exercise of the right to a referendum. Voice explanation, Mr. Roman Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u190	Thank you for your word, President. In fact, I would like to have this debate not so much about the place at the referendum, we will talk about it at the time of the interpretation, and I would particularly like to have a discussion for the sake of peace or unrest in this Chamber on that part of the story that the President of the Government was speaking about here. He was essentially on the same side or the same hard thing he put up when he said it was a scandal, that it was scandalous, that they lost their signatures, but he also added that there was a scandal with photocopied signatures, and none of them were responding. In view of what has also been happening today, when criminals are walking around the house again and investigating us, at least today, five or six members of Positive Slovenia, I think it is appropriate to have one such discussion. The reason for this is the reply of the President of the Government when he wants to show or in some way to criminalise also Members and Members of the National Assembly in the spirit of this, in fact, scandal. But the scandal is that the referendum signatures have disappeared, and I hope that Dr. Gorenak will also withdraw until the interpolation itself, unless today he sends us a very clear answer to his interpretation by sending criminals over us.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u191	We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 74 Members and Members present, 28 to 45. [[It was voted in favour of 28.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr. Žiga Turka to the question of mag. Majdi Potrata with regard to the establishment of an RTV contribution. Explanation, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. No one could ignore or at least no one should have ignored how many times and who has already turned to Members and Members of the Government to reduce the RTV contribution for 2013 and 2014. Not that the contribution is as high as it is now, no one has demanded an increase in the contribution. But at a time when the government inspires a lot of cultural goods, when it does not look at the standard of people, it wants to save on the RTV contribution. And this will undoubtedly affect the quality and scope of the public service of RTV, and will also have consequences for the possibility or inability to conclude contracts for a number of co-workers. But in doing so, it must be said that we are also Members and Members of the National Assembly with the restriction of commercial activity for a national when we have allowed them only 7 minutes of advertising, while commercial television has 12 minutes of advertising, so when they are also deprived of funds from the budget, this further weakens the possibility of financial autonomy, autonomy and independence of the largest public, national and cultural institution. Let me just remind you that the National Council for Culture is also calling for us to reflect on what we are doing. That is why I expect us to discuss this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u193	More mag. Dean Jedhan has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u194	Your Honor! I would like to say why I will support this decision and at the same time why I bought a book of the rise of fascism in Italy today. If we destroy Slovenian media, if we send criminals to Members in response to the interpretation, then it is time to discuss this and it is time, honourable Members and Members, that we all read such books. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u195	We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 75 Members and Members present, for 30, for 45. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 45.]] No decision is taken. Next decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Janez Šuštersič, to Mr. Jožef Kavtičnik's question on the construction of Block 6 of the Termoelectrica Šoštanj. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, for 26, for 44. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Next decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. Mr Andrej Visiak and Mr Tomaž Gantar, Minister for Health, asked the question of mags. Barbara Žgajner Tavš in connection with the continuation of the house Hospic. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, for 26, for 44. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Next decision:The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mag. Joyful Žereva on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 27 to 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar to Mr Dark Jazbec's question on the financial losses of Slovenian hospitals. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, for 26, for 45. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 45.]] No decision is taken. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar to the question by Mr Andreja Črnak Meglič concerning the resolution of the financial problems of health. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, for 26, for 46. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 46.]] No decision is taken. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar to Mrs Renata Brunskole's question on the implementation of all health services and preventive measures in all areas of the Republic of Slovenia. Explanation of voice. Mrs. Renata Brunskole, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I propose a debate on the Minister's response to the implementation of all health-care services and preventive measures in the areas of the Republic of Slovenia. It was a question of how demographically endangered areas in the Republic of Slovenia would also have quality control and adoption of health protection measures, especially in areas where people have already experienced ecological disasters. The merger of health care institutions in Slovenia, together with the Institute for Health Protection, will mean that the employed people in the dislocated units of institutions will lose their jobs, some will drive to Ljubljana and one part will remain in these units. For the Ministry of Health, this can mean savings and that these institutions will provide income to the Institute for Health Protection, for others dispersed and also demographicly threatened areas in Slovenia, and this means a huge step back, as the profession will move away to Ljubljana and a step towards centralisation means this action. Mr Minister stressed that experts will be brought together in one institution, which means the issue of time efficiency when someone from Ljubljana will follow the Kolpo River, the Soča River, the Mura River and so on, various epidemics and viral diseases, as well as ecological disasters. Such a proposal would be put in order to listen to the profession, so I propose that the debate be held.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u197	Mr. Darko Jazbec, the explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u198	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't think we really know what a huge problem and what catastrophic consequences this law can have. If I were to explain to you that in an apartment, we would redecorate the walls and then demolish one wall that is statically important, then it could have very serious consequences. If you don't believe us the most, I'll read what was on the Health Committee. Independent professional comments, for example, Association of Health Institutions: "We do not accept the proposed solution, because it is primarily legally-organised, does not work after some professionally substantive solutions and especially because it ignores the regional approach. Second opinion, Mr Pretnar: "I am extremely disturbed that we have no plan, not for what would result from public health, we have no plan for unification, not for a clear pool of laboratories, and I think we are going into disaster." Third opinion: "The rigid bureaucrat institution will not be able to respond to the needs of the contracting authorities, and investigations will start with more responsive, though unauthorised and unskilled operators, leading to the collapse of the profession in the country." Fourth opinion: "We regret that this will not be a solution, it will be another problem in Slovenian health in the long term." I read this to you because it's an independent expert opinion. Not all the directors of these institutions are, and today Mr Grims has already said that we should listen, so I hope you have heard that. Above all, I hope you understand what you can confirm when voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u199	Mr Matjaž Zanoškar and Mr Franz Jurša. First, Mr. Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u200	Thank you. Of course, I will vote in favour of an extended debate on the response of Minister Tomaž Gantar. Health is one of our greatest values. And when it comes to health, we are even more sensitive. When it comes to the restructuring of health institutions in our country, then we have in our minds and eyes those peripheral regions, the provinces that are separated from the centres, with this reorganisation, these provinces will be in a much worse position. I am talking about the health care institution located in Koroška, and we know that in Koroška there is a degraded area of the Mežiska Valley, which has been approved a rehabilitation plan, the Mežiški Valley, which is somehow contaminated with lead, where water, air and soil should be analysed daily. As Mr. Minister then imagines with the reorganisation of the health institution, i.e. by transferring to Ljubljana, Maribor, from where all these parameters should be controlled that harm health. I am in favour of an extensive and thorough debate on how these services should be organised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u201	Mr. Franz Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u202	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I would just like to say that we will be discussing today, deciding on the 8th item of the agenda for this regular session, where we will consider the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Act. For this reason, I do not feel the need for this matter to be considered as a special item on the agenda of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u203	We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] No decision is taken. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Joyful Žereva, on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 45. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 45.]] The decision was not adopted. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Janez Šuštersič, to Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišić's question on taxation of cross-border labour migrants. Explanation of the vote by Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u204	Your Honor! Why did I decide to propose that we hold a public debate in the National Assembly in response to the Minister? Because I was not satisfied and because I cannot understand that those people who went with a belly for bread, who resolved their social situation themselves by migration abroad to work in Austria or Italy, and in particular to Austria, that those who bring money to Slovenia and spend it here, that those who are least burdened by this country because they are good, this country wants to punish them further in time of crisis by abolishing this special relief. I therefore believe that such a measure is not beneficial to this society, such a measure is not good and is not encouraging and should indeed have one thorough debate that this government will once and for all stop cutting social rights, regardless of the fact that we are in a time of crisis, because this measure and similar measures only exacerbate the crisis, so I am afraid that if you continue to do so, we will literally bring this society to an even worse level than it is. . Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u205	Thank you. We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 45. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 45.]] Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar to the question of mags. Leila Hercegovac in connection with irregularities in the transplant facility. The explanation is mag. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u206	Nicely greeted! Your Honor! We replaced the director at the Department of Transfusion Medicine. Six months earlier, the government or the Ministry of Health had replaced the Institute's Council at Izola Hospital and the Institute for Transfusion. It's not a substitution, but it's a violation of Article 39, according to lawyers, of the Law on Institutions. Health professionals do not understand because personal reasons are involved. Why? Because during the period 2003-2004 the same director sat in the world of the Izola Hospital Institute and warned of poor business. At the time, Mr. Gantar was Director of Izola Hospital. And then there's three other things, so it's not just a transfusion facility, it's a hospital in Izola, a clinical center, pediatrics, and other things. We really do things in health that are positive, but we don't deal with systemic changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u207	Thank you. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 42. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 42.]] The decision was not adopted. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Culture, Science and Sport, Dr Žiga Turka, to the question of Mr Peter Wilfan's question on the proposal for a law amending the Law on Children's Guidance with Special Needs. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 45. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 45.]] No decision is taken. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. Andrej Visiak asked Mr Jerk Čehovin about the issue of the payment of pensions to military personnel. Mr Jerko Čehovin has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u208	Dear President, thank you very much! I myself will support this proposal, which I have put forward, for the debate to take place, on the ground that we have been informed in the adoption of Zujf on all committees and then, in plenary session, that this article excludes all those for which contributions have not been paid. By now it is well known, and the government itself has realized that 8,000 people who have worked in other republics or worked in Slovenia and have been established in other republics of the former Yugoslavia have already paid contributions. The same applies to this category that I have taken up. Some were retired long before the beginning of this new country, and by 1973 they were paying contributions to the Slovenian cash register. I think it's a good opportunity to make amends to these people too, what has been said, that this agenda, that paid contributions are the basis for non-discrimination, is being taken into account. In doing so, I expect, in addition to the opposition, to be supported, according to them, by the only social party in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u209	We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 74 Members and Members present. The vote was 27 to 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Andrej Visiak on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the The explanation is mag. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u210	I asked Mr Žerjav what it was like to draw on European funds. The situation is that we have absorbed 66.7% of European funds, but we have paid 88.3% in the European budget. So by the end of the year, we still have 300 million in November, December, in two months. This is extremely large and I am concerned that we will not draw on it, so I think it would be good if we could have this general debate and prepare ourselves with one true strategy for the second year, when we need to draw a billion 400 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u211	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present. The vote was 28 to 46. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Mr Radovan Žerjava and Mr Zvonet Černač's Minister for Infrastructure and Space on Mr Gaspar Gaspar Gaspar Mišić's question on the implementation of the State Spatial Plan for Luka Koper. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 46. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Last such proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice and Public Administration, Dr. Senko Plicenič, to Mrs Saša Kos's question on the strategy for the development of the system of municipalities in Slovenia. Mrs. Sasha Kos, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u212	Thank you for your word, chairman. Given that we are dealing with austerity measures, I think it is extremely important that we also consider how many municipalities we have in Slovenia. As it is known, we have 211, which is firmly above all limits of normal because the limit for the formation of municipalities was 5,000 people, but as is widely known, some have 60 people or even fewer. In the past, there has been a very strong mayoral lobby here in Parliament, which has prevented this limit from being sustained or to limit the 5,000 inhabitants. I think it would be wise to save a lot of money because, as we know, these municipalities are not able to maintain themselves, but rather to draw funds from the budget, so they are also weakening this money, which could be put into something more useful than these small congregations, which are essentially meant for themselves, and then the development is moving away from what the congregation is supposed to be, or should be, somewhere with its own resources, to maintain certain segments that are needed or affected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u213	We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 45. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 12th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Commercial Law. We will decide on the proposal for a decision that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Commercial Law is appropriate for further consideration. Explanation of voice. First, I ask who wants to explain the vote on behalf of the Group of Members. I'm going to open an application for the parliamentary groups. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u214	Thank you, President. I'll vote against it. The reason is simple because it was possible to give extra time to allow the new leadership of the Chamber of Commerce to influence the law in a way that would be kind to the craftsmen, and that the ruling coalition did not give it, is also a voice against the voice of the protest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u215	On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia, Mr Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u216	Thank you. In Positive Slovenia we respect the decision taken at the referendum on the transition to voluntary membership of craftsmen. The organization of the Slovenian craft also started voluntarily in 1969 and it already had the current 62 municipalities by the end of the 1970s. However, we are against political interference and the fight for legacy between the spheres of interest. And since this law is not in line with craftsmen, we have proposed coordination. We expect that further consideration will take into account the comments made by those covered by the law. In case of compliance, we will also support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u217	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Roman Žveglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u218	Thank you. Your Honor! In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that the abolition of compulsory membership in the Chamber of Commerce has taken an important step among the difficult changes expected. Simply put, those craftsmen who feel that they do not support the services of the chamber will not be their members and will not pay membership fees. It must be said, however, that it also brings new trade laws to deregulation of trade professions, which is also an important administrative and substantive burden that will improve employment opportunities. We don’t care what kind of education is available to our users — those who eat potatoes in their home inn or those who plant flowers by trade. Even so, the market will tell them that they are doing the right thing, of course at the right price. This is particularly unnecessary in view of the fact that the Director of a company, who is also privately owned and responsible for employees, for jobs, for the repayment of bank credits, for tax debts and debts to subcontractors, does not have to meet any conditions regarding education. And finally, the fact that we are not writing the law for the purposes of managing the Chamber of Commerce, but for regulating the conditions for the work of craftsmen. In the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that the law is suitable for further consideration and can be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u219	Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? Mrs. Renata Brunskole, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u220	Thank you very much. I cannot support the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Commercial Law, but since this is a first reading and I predict that this first examination will go through, I will abstain from voting. This law is not in line with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia has quite a few comments. There are a number of open questions, who will represent all the craftsmen, what will happen to the craftsmen's homes in individual areas, where the regional trade-business chambers, whose homes have been built by craftsmen with their money, what will happen with the public powers they now have without the invitation to tender to the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise, and these powers have been given to them by the State, and because of voluntary membership, it can happen that they will lose as many members as possible. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia will formally remain a representative body, which will be financed by the State from the State budget, and this law allows the establishment of new chambers, which will in fact and in fact become representative bodies of craftsmen and will probably represent a larger number of craftsmen than the current Chamber of Commerce and Industry, but will not have public powers. And that. The Government has not given the new management of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry the opportunity to participate in the preparation of a more useful trade law. I therefore expect that, in the second reading, some of these open questions that I have raised will be resolved and that we will have a feeling for those who are self-employed, self-sustaining jobs, i.e. craftsmen, independent entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u221	We will therefore decide on the proposal for a decision that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Commercial Law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 8. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted and that I will therefore be assigned a proposal for a law to deal with the home working body, which is the Committee on the Economy. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act. We will decide on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Some explanation for the vote, I suppose, on behalf of the groups of Members. First on behalf of the Group Positive Slovenia Mrs Tamara Vont, then on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Diane Jedhan. I went on the principle that the ladies had the upper hand, but I don't know who raised his hand first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u222	Thank you very much. I must say that the debate on this law, I think, has been the most pleasant and so far, as my colleague Ficko said, that obviously the only animals are the ones that bring us together. A little joke. But it really was a good debate for everyone, and I would like once again to commend this proposal for the law. Of course, there are things that could be better regulated, and especially regardless of the fact that I know that it is very complicated matter, that certain decisions are also pending in other countries or in lawsuits in other countries concerning circuses in which animals are performing, but we will insist in Positive Slovenia that such circuses do not appear in Slovenia. Of course, it's a matter of success, but I think it's one very important thing. Of course we'll support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u223	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u224	Thank you, President. Dear Members and Members! We welcome this bill in the Group of Social Democrats and will also support it. We are also pleased that it has been detected both by the Government and some of the coalition's parliamentary groups and also by the opposition that it is possible to upgrade the law further. We propose this in certain areas. First of all, it is important to further tighten the issue of animal testing licences, which we object to more precisely dividing the register, which should also include the register of dangerous animals. It is important that companies acting in the public interest in the field of animal protection receive additional rights to carry out this human mission and it is important to describe more precisely what is the case of torture in the case of inappropriate housing of animals. Inappropriate accommodation of animals is the most common reason for suffering animals. As a parliamentary group, this bill is supported and expected to be treated in a good way in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u225	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Roman Žveglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u226	Thank you. Your Honor! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the law. We believe he's suitable for further consideration. It is good that it regulates this relationship between man and animal in particular and that it does not yet interfere with the relations between animals themselves, which I also concluded from the debate that some would like to see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u227	We vote on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the National Assembly and that the draft law will therefore be allocated to the labour force, namely the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to Certain Laws in the Field of Food Safety, Veterinary and Plant Protection. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 19 November 2012, which is an amendment by the Social Democrats' Group to Article 10a. Before we vote, the vote will explain the mag on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u228	Thank you, President. This amendment makes it possible to regulate, in accordance with Slovenian legislation, the competence to organise bodies in the composition of the Ministry in a manner also recommended by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly – i.e. by a government regulation. In this way, responsibility is also assumed by those who accept it, namely, the Ministry and the Government, but not by the transfer of responsibility to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u229	Mr Roman Žveglič is also on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u230	Thank you for your word. We will not support the amendment in the Slovenian People's Party, because if this amendment is also supported, the full dictatorship of the law is flawed or divorced and makes no sense. We believe that the existing case is appropriate without this amendment. It is also appropriate if new guidance from the European Union on the regulation of the system in the field of safe food is to come, this transition will be significantly easier and less painful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u231	We are voting on the amendment of Article 10a of the Social Democrats' Group. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 45. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment and have thus concluded our second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment to the amended bill was adopted in the second reading of the proposal, we can move on to a full decision on the bill. The legislature and the Government have not warned me that the text of the law would not be harmonised because of the amendments adopted by the committee. That is why we can make a full decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 26. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 8th day, with the consideration of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Act. In the second reading, no amendments were adopted to the amended draft law. We're moving to third reading. I wasn't informed of any discrepancies. Before we vote, Mr Darko Jazbec will explain his vote on behalf of the positive Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u232	Thank you so much for saying that. It saddens me that we are not as united here as we were in previous laws. Two things we need to do very carefully. Even at the time of the sentence there are great restrictions, it is an emergency and another thing is public health. The restrictions are because there can be very large, catastrophic consequences. And here this law is very quickly and gravely interfering with public health. This is essentially a public health reform overnight. All these years these institutions have been left to grace and ingenuity and ingenuity, and now the country would just take what some local community has successfully grown over the years. This is even a legal question whether it is still the owner of the country or whether the local community owns it because it has not been financed by the country for most years. In Positive Slovenia we feel that it is not the right time and not the way for this law. Time is not right because for reforms is the right time when money is, not when it is a loss. There's no rationality here, no savings. We've been through this for eight hours, and there's no evidence of that. It is also not the right way, since the withdrawal of autonomy and the resulting centralisation are certainly not welcome. This strengthens the monopoly and greatly increases the risk of corruption. I personally see even here the origins of this law. The autonomy of these nine institutions is lost. Even in the coalition contract, you have to increase autonomy. What exactly does that mean for these institutions? Autonomy in itself increases flexibility, increases competitiveness and thus efficiency, increases business excellence and more innovation. All these elements have now been depicted by these institutions in recent years, and now we are destroying all of this. It is very incomprehensible, given that in other areas, let's say the labour market law, that's exactly what you want to increase, and now where it is, let's destroy it. Actually, like Prime Minister Janez Janša said, if you get lost, you have to go back a little. But we're really going a long way back now. I don't know if we're coming to Yugoslavia or anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u233	Who, then, wants to explain his voice? I'm opening the application. Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor to explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u234	Thank you very much, very good-bye. It's pure centralization. You are shutting down a very successful financial institution in Nova Gorica. We're left with an organizational unit, but that's what the Novogorians are used to. They moved the bank to Maribor. You're shutting down the information centers. Now that the floods were over, come and see what the situation was like. You are merging police stations, proposed the association of the coastal Slovenian National Theatre in Novi Gorica with Koporski and so on. What's the limit on that? With this you take our jobs, you take services for citizens and citizens and jobs that are also needed on the periphery, not only in Ljubljana. And the excuse that this is so that there will be more confidence, if, our institution in Nova Gorica solves problems in Goriška, from there they are also paid and they can be corrupt and I don't know what. And I suggest that our institute review the quality of water in Prekmurje and the Prekmurski in Novi Gorica to keep everything clean. This institution has done a great deal for us to adopt a law for asbestos patients in one of the mandates and so on, and I cannot support such a law. There's no reason to cut it and we're left with an organizational unit. I'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u235	Mr. Darko Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u236	Thank you very much again for your word. I'm actually talking more out of desperation, so you know I'm against this law. There were really so many professional arguments against the law that there was nothing for, so there is no major dilemma here. However, I would call on you to take the responsibility of those who will vote in favour of this law and the proposer of this law not to say within a year that the public health situation has deteriorated as a result of the crisis. We do not accept this and I ask you to take responsibility for health indicators in a year. At the same time, I would like to point out that people have slowly begun to understand what is going on, because it is not immediately identifiable that you will not be calling a referendum yourself. We are against this, but the content of this, now that the mayors know that these institutions are shutting down, can lead to this because you simply do not offer dialogue on democratic paths and do not take the arguments of the profession into account. I'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u237	Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u238	Thank you, President. Once again, a greeting from the Member of Parliament and Members! I understand this law as a direct attack on the interests of Pomurje. Let me describe. Over the past few years, we have in Pomour an institution that has rationalized over the years, learned to acquire European funds, become famous in the international environment, and we have a Ljubljana Institute of IVZ, which – what is it doing? Every year, it generates huge, millions of losses. At a time when other institutions rationalize and prove to be reducing the number of employees, the number here increases by 60 people. And now, with your institution on the shoulders of poor regions, we are solving the Ljubljana problem. That's unacceptable! Dear Members and Members, do not talk about regionalism, assistance to Pomour, Posav and so on. Let us vote not always in the interest of Ljubljana, let us vote in our interest at some point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u239	Mr. Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u240	The regions are important. It is important that not all institutions are home in Ljubljana. It is important that we also maintain quality jobs in regional centres. It is not all Ljubljana and it is impossible to agree that only by combining institutions can significant rationalisation be achieved. In doing so, it is forgotten that each of these health institutions has a role to play in its environment, employees who are not even supposed to be reduced by law. And here we can really ask ourselves whether it makes sense to rationalize health institutions, health care institutions in Slovenia to approach from a second perspective. Not first to see what we can combine, but then to take the time to design the processes. First, let's connect the processes. Let us amend the legislation by allowing independent health care institutions or health care institutions to interconnect. Let us introduce processes, and then let us change the form when we see what such optimisation, such consolidation of their operation, such coverage of possible reserves at one end and crowded at the other. This law also touches Maribor. I want to be careful about that. In spite of the agreement that the national laboratory will be established in Maribor, I will vote with caution against, also taking into account the interests of all those regions that have already responded today and have a legitimate vote. Not every rationalisation is rationalisation. Rationalisation is the one that has been carried out thoughtfully, intelligently and based on studies that foresee the effects of such integration.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u241	More mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u242	Thank you. I will vote against this law in particular because I believe that quality public services are governed by the principle that those who provide these services must be convinced that they work in such a form and that they are in the best interests of the people who are intended for them. It is therefore very important that the changes, the innovations of this profession, this group of people, are also accepted by true contractors. Many of the objections we have heard about this law, however, say that the belief that this law actually brings about an improvement is not, so it is not promising to create a good climate, which is also related to all those activities that require a great intellectual contribution. And I remember that public health institutions have already experienced one erosion when concessions were granted and there was also a lot of energy invested in keeping at least in some local environments to such an extent and bringing some new ambulance, for example, gerontologically, because we are already talking so much about age today, and they are focused on the needs of individuals. It is indeed unacceptable that those who have come to think of regionalism as an important task are now acting in contravention of these principles. I will therefore vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u243	Thank you. Another explanation for the vote, Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u244	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that I have asked a question to the Minister and that there has been a talk on this subject, it would not be repeated, but the path to centralisation, the path from all areas of Slovenia, where employed experts, educated people, means Slovenia's path to centralisation, brain drain, the migration of young people from Slovenia. That's probably not what we want. And when we ask the other branches of the competent ministers how many new jobs have been established and so on, on the other hand, we are faced with the fact that some ministries, for the sake of saving those institutions that operate with a positive result, join those that create a significant negative result. The victims and the disadvantaged are usually people living outside Ljubljana in other centres. I am sure that Ljubljana does not insist on what someone has said, but that this is the decision of the competent ministry and government. And that's not good. The warnings given by the competent health authorities in this direction were well-intentioned, professional. And since everyone told about their territory, in the White landscape was the ecological disaster of the Krupa River. Obviously, it will no longer be intended and important to monitor this problem, which has been in the past, but the funds will be directed elsewhere, where so far there has been a large minus, which must be balanced in some way with the next part of these institutions and positive results to the detriment of people employed by other regional units and institutions throughout Slovenia. That's not good.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u245	Mr. Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u246	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to take this. Although I am not a member of the Health Committee, I would like to inform all of the world of Slovenia that the Department of Health Murska Sobota is the best such institution in Slovenia. Lately, I've had a lot of conversations with the people who run this facility, and they're great people who don't just work for the wages that work for the heart. Much has been done in the area of prevention and in other areas as well. When I received the assurance that this institution would, therefore, be able to run for European funds in Murska Sobota now, I was at least partially reassured. It's true, we've lost a lot in Pomure in recent years. It's true, we've actually become just a big "chalter", a dairy cow rather than something else. That is why I expect the head office in Ljubljana to look at the personnel from Pomurje as well. And as long as I'm sitting here in this seat number 90, I'm going to look very, very rigorously at everyone who's going to run this institution, this new institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u247	There's still an interest in explaining the voice. Mr. Ficko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u248	Thank you for your word. I will vote against it because it is the place of that piece of property and knowledge that we have in undeveloped places like Pomurje. And I really want to know how you, my dear members of the House of Pomerania Members, will vote in this case, because, of course, you have the opportunity to express yourself now how you think about our places. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u249	We'll decide on the bill. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 26. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. On the proposal of the Law on Ratification of the Second Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The Committee on Foreign Policy, which also submitted a written report to the National Assembly, treated him as a parent labour force. No amendments were adopted by the parent working body during the second reading and amendments could not be tabled at the meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving to 14. On the proposal of a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Romania on the military cemetery. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. He was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which sent a written report to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. No amendments have been adopted by the home labour force, and amendments cannot be tabled at the meeting of the National Assembly. We decide on the bill. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. On the proposal of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Council of the Ministries of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the employment of Bosnia and Herzegovina's nationals in the Republic of Slovenia and the Protocol on the implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Council of the Ministries of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the employment of Bosnia and Herzegovina's nationals in the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, if he so wishes. Mr. Bozo Cerar, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u250	Dear Members and honourable Members! The basis for the preparation of an agreement on the one hand stems from the interest of both countries in concluding such an agreement, and also from the need of the Republic of Slovenia to develop a comprehensive, planned and selective immigration policy. Slovenia considers that selectivity or careful planning is not something negative, but an opportunity for migrants, the country of immigration and the country of origin. The principles and solutions set out in the text of the Agreement are based on the European Union's policy reference framework in the area of integrated migration policy, the important part of which is also the promotion of bilateral agreements between the Member States of the European Union and third countries, in terms of better management of irregular migration and the promotion of circular migration. We have also taken into account the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina that workers, their citizens return to their country and try to reintegrate into their home society and, with their new experiences and professional knowledge, enrich their labour market. I would like to stress that the agreement lays down the conditions for employment of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Slovenia in a more favourable manner than the existing national legislation in the field of employment of foreigners. It does not affect the area of residence or permanent immigration. The Ministry of Labour, in a public call from the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, responded in an appropriate or detailed manner and rejected the allegations. Finally, I would like to point out the fact that the draft text of the agreement with the social partners was harmonised already in 2009, the agreement itself signed in 2011 and the Bosnian side ratified it in the meantime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u251	Thank you. The draft law has been considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as its mother's working body, and I now give the floor to the presentation of the Committee's report to Mr Joseph Horvat, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State Dr. Bozo Cerar with his associate! At its 14th session, on 14 November 2012, the Committee on Foreign Policy considered the proposal for a law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Employment of Citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Republic of Slovenia and the Protocol implementing the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Employment of Citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. In its consideration, the Committee took into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which had no comments on the text of the bill. The members of the committee also received a written call from the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia when considering the proposal for a law. In the debate, Member Sam Bevk took note of the warnings raised by the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia in its call and called on government representatives to provide further clarifications. Since there were no representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs at the meeting, he made a procedural proposal to suspend the Committee's consideration of this agenda item until appropriate explanations were provided to the Committee. The other members of the Committee considered that, given that it was a proposal for a law on the ratification of an international agreement agreed and signed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it would be pointless to delay and thereby prolong the agony of workers. After a vote on the procedural proposal to terminate the item and wait for an explanation by the Government, which was not adopted, the Group of Social Democrats announced the absence of all members of the Group in accordance with Article 65, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly for further consideration of this item on the agenda. After the discussion, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. Let me add to that that he was 19 to the National Assembly. 11. 2012 also sent a response by the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs mag. Andrej Visiak at the public invitation of the Union of Free Trade Unions you received. As no amendment has been adopted to the draft law on the home working body, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposes that the draft law on ratification be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u253	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups: only one parliamentary group – Positive Slovenia – has been announced. Mr Roman Jakič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u254	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Secretary of State! This proposal of the Law on Ratification raised several questions regarding the issue of migrant workers in the Republic of Slovenia. In general, this problem can be divided into work and housing. The labour issue is most symptomatic in construction companies, where the most painful experiences of workers are the non-payment of pension contributions, regressions, insurance and non-renewal of contracts. Workers who do not have personal work permits do not even have the right to free choice of employers on the Slovenian market, which often makes them black and often black. The housing problem is reflected in the lack of legislation of the Republic of Slovenia, which poorly regulates minimum standards in single homes, which exposes the residents there to a lack of living space, lack of space, lack of sanitation, standards and poor working home care. In addition, workers often receive social segregation, lack of necessary information, and sometimes even unfair and unjust evictions from single homes. It would be very nice if you read the graduation assignment of the Faculty of Philosophy, Mr Žig Podgornik Jakin, which describes the problem of these invisible workers in the construction companies Vegrad and SCT. I would also touch upon the letter we have received from all members of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, where they in fact point out that the agreement will put workers from Bosnia and Herzegovina in a discriminatory position with regard to workers from other countries and points out the slowness of international diplomacy. But if I have understood the Secretary of State correctly, the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina is signed, which means that one part of this obvious Union of Free Trade Unions is being abandoned, which we are very happy about. The agreement, which was drawn up at the time of the ministerial meeting of Dr. Svetlik and signed last June, lays down the conditions and procedures for the employment of migrant workers from BiH in the Republic of Slovenia, the principles of the agreement follow the EU's policy reference framework in the area of comprehensive migration policy, with an emphasis, of course, on strengthening the partnership dialogue with third countries, the importance of circular migration, reducing impact, brain drain and ethical staffing. The Agreement thus lays down the conditions and extent of employment of BiH citizens in RS, the conditions and procedures for the granting of work permits, the obligations and duties of employers and migrant workers, the promotion of integration processes for the integration into the labour market and in the society of the country of employment and the reintegration of processes after their return to the country of origin, and the conditions for the return to the country of employment. If I were to say a little bit about the policy we are witnessing in the Republic of Slovenia, it is only a matter of time before the need for ratification of another similar agreement arises, but then the role of BiH in the agreement will be played by Slovenia, as we are witnessing a number of relocations and brain drains. The Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia supports the bill and will vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u255	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 72 votes against 1. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda. But we're moving on to 16. At the time of the day, it is under the law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. The proposal was tabled by the Government. He was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which also reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. The amendments were not adopted at the home working body, so they cannot be tabled at the assembly meeting and we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 75 votes against 1. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement on the amendment of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the construction and operation of gas pipelines on the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was tabled by the Government. He was discussed by the Committee on Foreign Policy, and he reported to the National Assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. There were no amendments on the parent's working body. We can move on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving to 18. Period of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement on cooperation in protecting the story. The proposal was put forward by the Government. It was discussed by the Committee on Foreign Policy and the National Assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. There were no amendments on the working body, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. Period of the day, it's on the proposal for a law amending the law on the ratification of the Convention on the Civil Rights of International Child Abduction. The proposal was submitted by the Government. It was discussed by the Committee on Foreign Policy and the National Assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. There were no amendments on the working body, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving to 20. At the end of the day, it's an evocative bill on the ratification of the Protocol on the thoughts of the Irish people on the Lisbon Treaty. The proposal was submitted by the Government. It was discussed by the Committee on Foreign Policy and the National Assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. There were no amendments on the working body, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving to 21. PERIOD OF THE DAY – MANATIAN VOLUNTARY MATTERS. We have one such case, namely a notice from the Lenart District Court of Justice of the proposed indictment against the Magis. Ivan Vogrin. The notice was forwarded to the Lenart District Court. He was treated by the Mandate Election Commission as a parent working body and reported in writing to the National Assembly. We will, however, decide on the following proposal for a decision made by the Mandate-Electorial Commission: the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification by the Regional Court of Lenart of 19 October 2012 concerning the indictment lodged against the Member of the National Assembly of Magi. As a result of the suspicion of a crime of abuse of official status or of official rights under Article 261(1) of the Penal Code, Ivan Vogrin does not recognise the immunity of a member of the National Assembly of Magi. And allow Ivan Vogrin to conduct a criminal procedure. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly shall decide on this proposal without discussion. We are voting on the proposal not to recognise immunity. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 68 votes against 2. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against two.]] The decision is adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also conclude the 8th meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues!
