ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 5th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mr Jožef Horvat, Mr Mirko Brulc after 5 p.m. and mag. Leila Hercegovac. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 2. On the basis of a proposal from the European Union Member States, the European Economic Area Act and the Swiss Confederation to carry out regulated calls for action in the Republic of Slovenia following a reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mrs Patricia Chular, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u2	Nice greetings to all present. As has been said, today's point is the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications to citizens of the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation for the exercise of regulated professions or activities in the Republic of Slovenia. A reduced procedure is proposed, namely the main objective of supplementing the law by aligning it with European rules on the recognition of professional qualifications. The supplement itself goes in a direction that allows an extension of the range of beneficiaries to the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications established under Directive 2005/36/EC. This Directive extends the beneficiaries to highly qualified third-country nationals, third-country nationals or stateless persons recognised as refugees or persons who for other reasons need international protection, then to third-country nationals who are long-term residents and European Community citizens and their family members who have the right to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States. By supplementing the law, we will therefore allow third-country nationals with acquired status under those Directives to have easier access to regulated professions or activities in the Republic of Slovenia, thus giving these new beneficiaries access to simplified cheaper and, in particular, shorter procedures established under the Directives. The proposal for a state budget law and other public funds have no financial implications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the president of Mrs Alenka Jeraj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is held at its 4th session. 6. 2012 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications to the citizens of the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation for the exercise of regulated professions or activities in the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly by the Government with a proposal for the consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure, decided by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 17th regular meeting. Thus, the law was dealt with in accordance with Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure by means of a reduced procedure. The legislative and legal service has examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects. On the basis of these comments, the proposed text was commented on by Article 1 and Article 2, and an amendment was tabled by the members of the coalition following the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. In its opinion, the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons supported the adoption of the draft law, while calling on legislators to bring European legislative provisions more carefully into the Slovenian legal order and to anticipate and find ways to limit the negative consequences of opening up the labour market for individual groups of regulated professions. The representative of the applicant said in the introductory explanation that the reason for supplementing the law is to comply with European legislation, the area of recognition of professional qualifications is currently very topical, as it is mentioned in all relevant European documents as an area to which more attention should be given. The Single Market Act was also adopted in April 2011 – Twelve initiatives to boost growth and confidence – together for new growth, which also includes an initiative for greater mobility of citizens and as a key measure lists legislation relating to an up-to-date system of recognition of professional qualifications. The aim is to simplify procedures for mutual recognition of the qualifications of mobile workers, to update the legislative framework, to examine regulated professions of activity and to strengthen trust and cooperation between Member States. In his presentation, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the amendment tabled summarises the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service. The members and members of the committee agreed to align the proposed amendment of the law with the European legal order and to adopt unanimously the proposed amendment of the coalition. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on both articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended amendment is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Iva Dimic, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u6	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representative of the Government, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Members of the New Slovenia Group will be supported by the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Law on the Procedure for Recognition of Professional Qualifications for Citizens of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation. The novelty of this Act means substantive harmonisation with European legislation in the field of recognition of professional qualifications for the performance of regular professions and activities. Such a new law is needed due to the general need for a greater influx of qualified labour from third countries to the European Union and Slovenia in order to achieve and maintain the greatest possible competitiveness of the economy. There is a deficit of highly skilled workers in the European Union and Slovenia, mainly in the fields of medicine, science and information technology. This gap will be possible to fill with inflows of personnel from third countries. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that the solution to meet the gap between the deficit professions with the inflow of labour from third countries is a short-term solution. For the longer term, the education of low-income professions will have to be addressed at the national level with an adequate number of enrolments in higher education, university and post-graduate studies which educate such deficient professions. In doing so, I am primarily thinking about the field of medicine and technical colleges. It will be necessary to create such a situation that there will not be a mass brain drain from Slovenia into foreign markets, which is taking place in recent times when the economic crisis in Slovenia is deepening so much. In this direction, the Members of New Slovenia will also work in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mrs Alenka Jeraj, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u8	Thank you again, for your word. The proposal for a law proposes harmonisation with European Union legislation. The proposal complements Article 2 of the existing law with a new second paragraph by extending the range of beneficiaries to the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications established in accordance with Directive 2005/36/EC. We support the amendment of the law in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u10	Nice hello to you all! The novelty of the Law on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications to citizens of the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation for the conduct of regulated professions in the Republic of Slovenia has already been supported by Members of the SD Group at the time of its consideration on the home committee. This novel is an urgent one, but a technical alignment of our legislation with the European acquis. From a substantive point of view, four labour migration directives are transposed into the Slovenian legal order by amending the law, thus extending the range of beneficiaries who can carry out a regulated profession or activity in the Republic of Slovenia as self-employed or employed persons. We believe that the effective recognition of professional qualifications is important for increasing the free movement of persons, which is one of the main objectives of increasing mobility within the EU's common internal market. This is particularly important in the fact that Slovenia is one of those Member States with the highest number of regulated professions, and our country also has a low level of geographical and professional mobility compared to other EU Member States, which does not, of course, contribute to increasing the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, but does exactly the opposite. In order to become more competitive, these third-country nationals should be allowed to recognise professional qualifications as soon as possible in order to carry out regulated professions, so the Social Democrats will also support the amendment of the Law on the process of recognition of professional qualifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mag. Truda Cinderella on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u12	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Civil Code will be supported by aligning the law with the rules of European law, thus enabling third-country nationals with their statuses to have easier access to regular occupations or activities in our country. They will gain access to simplified, cheaper and shorter procedures while also allowing faster integration into the Slovenian labour market. The law itself does not introduce any new procedures or administrative burdens for the party, nor does it remain the same volume of documentation that the party will have to submit. The labour market, which is influenced by the economic crisis and ageing of the population, labour shortages and the difficulties of employers in finding employees with the required skills and skills, must enable citizens to quickly switch jobs and work in another Member State. This requires mutual recognition of qualifications and work experience between all Member States with the possibility of hiring highly qualified workers from third countries. Mobility and skills of workers are needed to relaunch economic growth in Europe. Enhanced mobility of skilled labour will thus increase the competitiveness of the European economy, as there are still too many regulatory obstacles preventing Europeans from employment where they want to work in the European Union, while many highly skilled jobs are unoccupied. The economy will benefit more from temporary mobility of workers if this is more established and based on a clearer framework that will promote this form of mobility. The adoption of the law will help to increase the competitiveness of businesses due to easier access to the European market, mainly due to the employment opportunities of highly qualified third-country nationals lacking in the European space.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u14	Hello, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the addition of the Law on the process of recognition of professional qualifications, while reminding the Government to be vigilant and to monitor the movement and situation in the field of employment in the light of the competence it has with regard to the employment of foreigners. The Employment and Work Act requires the Government to propose to the National Assembly the introduction and abolition of measures made possible by international treaties such as a transitional period or a security clause and, in accordance with migration policy and taking into account the situation and movement of the labour market, to establish an annual work permit quota [[hereinafter referred to as: quota]] which limits the number of foreigners in the labour market. Two years ago, when the migration strategy was adopted, the employment situation was completely opposite to the current one. Members of the Slovenian People's Party therefore believe that the State must provide jobs first to its citizens. While the reason for supplementing the law is the harmonisation of the rules with European legislation in the spirit of the adopted Single Market Act last year – Twelve initiatives to boost growth and trust – Together for new growth, which also includes an initiative for greater mobility of citizens and as a key measure lists legislation relating to an up-to-date system of recognition of professional qualifications. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are always happy to support the simplification of bureaucratic procedures, in which case we agree with the call of the State Council that European legislative provisions should be more carefully transposed into our legal order. It is important to prepare in advance measures to prevent the possible negative consequences of opening up the labour market for individual groups of regulated professions. As we say, we will need to complement the members of the Slovenian People's Party in accordance with European regulations.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mag. Jana Jenko will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u16	Dear Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government, all of you have a nice greeting! Members of the DeSUS Group support the proposal for a law supplementing the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for citizens of EU Member States, EEC and the Swiss Confederation for the abolition of regulated professions or activities in the Republic of Slovenia. The main objective of supplementing the law is to bring the law into line with European rules. In particular, it is a matter of extending the range of beneficiaries to the process of recognition of professional qualifications, namely the extension of the circle to highly qualified third-country nationals or stateless persons who are recognised as refugees or persons who need international protection for other reasons, third-country nationals who are long-term residents and EU citizens and their family members who have the right to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States. As a result, there is a simplification, appreciation and reduction of administrative procedures in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 11 July, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, that is to say the draft law on the amendment of the Act on the prevention of work and employment in black within the framework of the shorter procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs of Mrs Patricia Chular.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u18	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Employment and Black Employment is based on the introduction of the provisions of the two Directives of the European Community, namely Directive 2010/41/EU on the application of the principle of equal treatment between men and women engaged in separate activities and Directive 2009/52/EC on minimum standards for sanctions and measures against employers of illegally staying third-country nationals. The first directive imposes what we have covered in the draft law in Articles 4 and 5, namely the possibility of carrying out a short-term work where the marriage is aligned with an extra-marital relationship or a registered partnership in the same-sex community. We are also complementary to the Institute of Labour in our own directing with a registered partnership in the same-sex community, while the provisions of the Directive on Minimum Standards for Sanctions and Measures against Employers of illegally staying third-country nationals are transposed by the amendment of the law by defining individual concepts, then we regulate the obligations of legal persons, entrepreneurs and individuals when hiring persons, especially third-country nationals, with the proposal providing for a solidarity of responsibility for payments to illegally employed persons. The proposal also adds new sanctions for breaches of obligations and increases the powers and obligations of the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to detect and prevent work and employment in black. Furthermore, the proposal lays down the obligations of legal persons, entrepreneurs and individuals prior to the possible conclusion of a working relationship with a third-country national, namely, prior to the conclusion of a working relationship, it is imperative that a third-country national be required to provide proof of legal residence in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal also lays down the time-limited exclusion of a legal person or entrepreneur who has been fined for an offence under this Act from eligibility to public funds, including EU funds awarded on the basis of a public invitation or invitation to tender for employment programmes representing State aid or de minimis aid. At the same time, the obligation of the said legal person or entrepreneur to repay public funds received within a period of 12 months prior to the legal order is also laid down. The material has been intersectorally coordinated and transmitted to the widest range of ministries and is also fully coordinated with the social partners within the Economic and Social Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the president of Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is at its fourth session. 6. 2012 considered the draft law on the amendment of the Law on the Prevention of Labour and Employment in Black, submitted by the Government to the Assembly by means of a proposal for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure, which we have also done in accordance with Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure. The legislative and legal service has examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects. It made comments to the proposed text on Articles 2, 3, 7 and 8. On the basis of these comments, amendments were tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups following the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. In its opinion, the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons supports the proposal for legislation and considers the proposed additions to be good and urgently necessary, as they adequately reduce the level of tolerance towards offenders of legal provisions. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law were tabled by SDS, the National Gazette, SLS, DeSUS and Nova Slovenija, paragraphs 2, 3, 7 and 8. The representative of the applicant said in his introductory explanation that the reason for the adoption of the law's amendment was to bring the regulation into line with European law. The law must comply with Directive 2009/52/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2009 laying down minimum standards for sanctions and measures against employers of illegally staying third-country nationals who entered into force on 20 July 2011. The new law lays down, inter alia, the obligations and obligations of legal persons, entrepreneurs and individuals to prohibit the employment of illegally staying third-country nationals, the control of such activities and possible sanctions for infringements of the provisions relating to the transposition of the Directive. In view of the obligation to transpose the Directive into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and in view of possible sanctions, it is essential that the Directive be transposed as soon as possible, since the Republic of Slovenia has already received the first notification concerning the non-notification of the Directive. The Government therefore sent a proposal to amend the law to the National Assembly after a reduced procedure. In his presentation, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the amendments tabled summarise all the essential comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service. The Committee unanimously adopted all the amendments tabled. The members and members of the Committee agreed to align the proposed amendments to the law with the European acquis, and the view was expressed that many provisions could have been regulated earlier if the law had not fallen into the referendum. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Borut Ambrožič has the floor on behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues, my friend! At the beginning of the presentation, let me say that, with regard to the announced labour market reforms in Positive Slovenia, we expect the Minister to briefly present appropriate, comprehensive and social partners coordinated solutions to the legislation under consideration. The proposed law really partially transposes two directives in Slovenian law, one of which is necessary, since we are already delaying its adoption, which is also the responsibility of our colleagues from the coalition or from the SDS, since the directive was an integral part of the draft law on prevention of work and employment in black, which was proposed in the SDS 5 referendum. 6. 2011 also rejected. The amendment of the law thus partially transposes the Directive on minimum standards for sanctions and measures against employers of illegally staying third-country nationals into the Slovenian legal order and the Directive on the application of the principle of equal treatment between men and women engaged in independent activities. The first Directive deals with employers who exploit the precarious situation of irregular migrants and usually employ them to perform poorly paid jobs under poor working conditions. Employers will have to check that they have a residence permit before hiring a third-country worker, and inform the relevant national authority in case of irregular status. These rules are a key element in the European Union's fight against irregular migration. Employers are subject to fines and, in more serious cases, even criminal sanctions. It is also considered how the directive applies to natural persons who employ such migrants, as many irregular migrants also work in private households. With the adoption of the novel, we can therefore expect the rights of migrants to be strengthened, and consequently the rights of all others, in accordance with Article 14 of the Constitution of Slovenia. The implementation of the second directive will also cover the gender equality dimension of labour prevention and employment legislation in the use of the institute for short-term work and self-direction. We will support the proposed solutions on the basis of what is said in Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Ms Romana Tomc has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, one year after the referendum in which the law on prevention of employment and black work was rejected, we are again addressing this same issue. Again, we are dealing with it in a way that will not save the grey economy, nor the grey employment. Of course, in the SDS Group, we will support the draft law that we have before us, because the solutions it brings are good and more secure for those who are exploited by employers, usually in the lowest paid works. We will also support it, of course, because we are aware that it is essential that we transpose into the Slovenian legal order the provisions laid down at European Union level in a timely and appropriate manner. The grey economy in Slovenia is, of course, a very serious problem. Estimates of its size vary, but vary somewhere up to 25% of GDP. This means that €10 billion of money is poured over or past the cash registers. This is money from which no taxes are paid, no contributions. On the other hand, we have reports from various inspection services, which we have in Slovenia quite something to talk about how effective these inspection services are in persecuting the grey economy. If we look at their total sum of fines collected in the middle of last year, which is where the report is, we can see that these fines are a million euros per 10 billion euros of money that is being poured out of the register. The market inspectorate collected only 140,000, traffic 16 000 euros, Durs 210 000, and the most effective was the labour inspectorate of almost 700 000 Euro fines. The main problem is therefore not in the legislation, because we will never be able to adopt such a law that would prevent a grey economy. There's a bigger problem in control. An even bigger problem is in another legislation, which should be such as to encourage businesses to operate legally in order to employ as they need to report employees to social security. Let me mention here encouraging tax legislation and encouraging labour legislation, all of which is something that we will have the opportunity to decide on next. If the previous government had acted more wisely and more pragmaticly in preparing for the referendum of the fallen law, it would have drawn up a law where it would have made the necessary changes to make this law more effective and not deal with inappropriate and inappropriate solutions in relation to neighbourly work, which has brought divisions between our people. As it is clearly and consistently wrong in the public and among colleagues that the previous opposition or SDS was the one responsible for rejecting the law on prevention of work and employment in black, let me remind you that the referendum was proposed by the social partners and was rejected by voters and voters at the referendum and that the SDS proposed better solutions in the process within its capabilities, which unfortunately were not taken into account. As we say, with regard to this proposal that we have before us today, we are assessing that it is good, that it is necessary, that it is necessary and, of course, that we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, Mr Vice-President, welcome back! I must say, it took my breath a little after this performance by my fellow Member of the SDS. Of course, I'm going to talk about something else, but in the introductions I can't help but over how, in defending my views and actions, the ruling party of the coalition lies shamelessly in this room and ensures that the law on prevention of work in black was not proposed for a referendum because of their initiative, but because of an agreement with the social partners. No, colleagues and colleagues! The social partners have backed the law on prevention of work in black! He was opposed by the SDS party, proposed him for a referendum, and since this was dealt with in package legislation, we know what fate he experienced. We do not discuss in this place, in this temple of democracy with lies [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u27	I'm asking you to give an opinion to the parliamentary group. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u28	She's also a colleague. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u29	Diarrhoea [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u30	discussions on [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u31	between representatives [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u32	things that had nothing to do with what is actually the subject of today's debate. [[...]] I can only say that we will support the law on prevention of work in black because it is a matter of complying with the two directives of the European Union and we cannot have doubts here. In particular, the first directive, which speaks of the need to set minimum standards for sanctions and measures against employers who employ illegally staying third-country nationals in the form of black work. The new provisions require the Commission to carry out additional inspections and to report to the European Commission with additional tasks and obligations. There are also sanctions and responsibilities that are distributed between the main operators and intermediate subcontractors. The second directive, however, refers to the equal treatment of men and women who carry out independent activities, and thus, in legislation on prevention of work, it also brings the aspect of gender equality to the fore, which is something that we have always advocated in the Group of Social Democrats, and that is why we advocate that the amendment, as proposed, should also be adopted. I'm going to touch the scope of my work on my own. Estimates show that about a quarter of the untaxed gross domestic product is concerned. Persecution and capture of this revenue is also becoming one of the main priorities of the European Union. We therefore expect the ruling coalition to prepare, as soon as possible, system solutions on greater control, adequate staffing and also incentives for employers to reduce their volume of work in black and fill this insatiable budget gap. However, I would like to ask that we are correct when considering the legal proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mag. Truda Cinderella, on behalf of the Group of the National Gazette, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u34	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendments to the law prevent illegal employment of persons in Slovenia, regardless of their nationality, also prevent the financial exploitation of black workers and at the same time lay down sanctions for breaches of obligations. Amendments impose obligations on employers to require proof of legal residence in Slovenia prior to the possible conclusion of the employment relationship from a third-country national. Members of the Civil Code are aware that work is a major problem and that much attention needs to be paid to remedying this problem. We are also aware that the alignment of our acquis with European Union legislation or directive is necessary, and that is why we will support the proposal for a law on job prevention and employment in black.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u36	Your Honor! The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on prevention of work and employment in black adds to the law in order to comply with Directive 2009/52/EC and Directive 2010/41/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on minimum standards for sanctions and measures against employers of illegally staying third-country nationals. The law provides, inter alia, that legal persons, entrepreneurs and individuals must urgently require, prior to the conclusion of a working relationship, the submission of proof of legal residence in the Republic of Slovenia and provides for the obligation of the employer to pay in the case of work on a black worker all outstanding payments for work carried out in the amount of the minimum wage for each month of work as if they were legally employed. The Law has thus given us more opportunities to protect workers or to prevent the financial exploitation of persons. In a time of constant struggle for market domination, because of the desire for the greatest possible profit and desire for the lowest possible cost of business operators, they sometimes choose ways to claim that they are in line with some human or human purposes. Today, when we face problems in all areas, at a time when people are even more intense in their infirmities and struggles to survive are also expressing their consent in various ways of working that are already confined to slavery, our attention to this issue must be even greater. The inhumane situation of work, the failure to pay the earned payment, the non-payment of social contributions, the work on the black, which gives no rights and protection to the worker, are all the facts that we will have to deal with and find the right solutions. Since the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Prevention of Work and Employment in Black means a step in this direction, we support the proposal for a law in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mag. Jana Jenko, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Good-bye to all of you once again. The proposals in this amendment to the law on job prevention and employment are primarily linked to the transposition of the two European directives into our legal order. In view of the obligation to transpose the Directive into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and possible sanctions, it is essential that they transfer the materials of the Directives as soon as possible, since the Republic of Slovenia has already received an official notice due to the non-notification of one of the directives and the second Directive is nearing the deadline for the mandatory harmonisation of the content. Our legislation in this area will be supplemented by a ban on the employment of illegally staying third-country nationals. After this supplement, all illegally employed persons, irrespective of nationality, will be given equal rights. However, in the context of the transposition of the second Directive, in relation to beneficiaries of short-term work and work in their own directing, a levelling of all forms of partnership is introduced. As an important novelty, protection against the financial exploitation of black workers should be highlighted. An employer who makes it possible to work in black will have to pay to an illegally employed person all possible unpaid payments, including taxes and contributions under the legal working relationship for the work done, at the rate of at least the minimum wage. In doing so, there is a solidarity of responsibility for this payment between the principal carrier of the transaction and all intermediate subcontractors. Some added value for more effective monitoring and action is the new powers and obligations of the Government Commission to detect and prevent work and employment in black. In view of the fact that new elements of prohibitions and obligations have been obtained under this new law, this law also penalises them. At the same time, there is also a sanction for the exclusion of the employer – the offender from eligibility to state and European aid for employment and training and the recovery of the funds received. The DeSUS Group will support the law. In this regard, while aware of the intensity of the problem of work on the black and grey economy, in the past in DeSUS, we have repeatedly stressed the key consequences of the various anomalies in the labour market, in particular the work on the black, which are reflected in the deficits in the tax, social, health and pension registers and have called for more order in this area, as the consequences of the grey market are multi-layered and interlinked. That is why we are once again stressing the need for more intensive supervision and sanctioning of offenders, and we expect more comprehensive solutions in the broader field of labour law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u40	Your Honor! Small and medium-sized enterprises are increasingly facing unfair competition as the driving force of our country. When we visit the territory with the Member State of New Slovenia, it is one of the most frequent requests of our entrepreneurs to stop speculators who work and work in black as soon as possible. In order to limit such competition and to eliminate it to the greatest extent, it is also imperative to cut down on the labour market. With the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Prevention of Work and Employment, we will be a step closer to the legal order that we must all follow. From various points of view, we can assess that work in black reduces the social security of workers, depriving them of social protection. However, we must aim to prevent the financial exploitation of black workers. Of course, an effective law on job prevention and black employment cannot be imagined without more effective supervision of the labour market and with greater competence of the labour inspectorate. The adoption of the law partially transposes into our legal order a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council which deals with minimum standards for sanctions and measures against employers of illegally staying third-country nationals. The law also lays down, inter alia, a solidarity of responsibility for payments, which means that the primary contractor and all intermediate subcontractors are responsible for the employment of black workers. This prevents the abuse of the subcontractor when the main operator would be burdened with sanctions and vice versa. Members of New Slovenia will continue to make sure that workers receive a fair payment for the work they have done. That is why we will also support the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 11 July, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is to the contrary the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Growth of the Republic of Slovenia for the Financing of Investments of Economic Companies within the framework of the shorter procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Dejan Krušc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u42	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In short, on the Law on Guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia for Investments of Economic Companies. This Act entered into force on 1 June 2010. On the basis of the warnings from the economy, a new law was adopted in 2011 which extended the possibility of providing guarantees for investments only to reverse guarantees. In view of the high risk of such guarantees, the law provided for strict criteria for the approval and insurance of guarantees and the institution of the authorising officer appointed by the Ministry of Finance. However, it appeared that the institution of the authorising officer would be inoperable under the powers it would have with regard to the operation of the company until the guarantee, as it should approve any transaction of the company. Due to these reservations and to the aim of increasing the operationality of the law, the proposed amendment removes the institution of the authorising officer and, at the same time, reinforces the requirements for insurance for the assets. The bill is prepared taking into account the comments made by the professional public, according to the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and the SID of the Bank. The law also increases the share of the investment guarantee to 80% of the amount of the loan and eliminates some of the uncertainties of the legal text so far. As the institution of the authorising officer is now being removed, there are extended provisions on the insurance of the return guarantee, namely, a 70 % real or personal guarantee of the amount of the guarantee, so far being 50 %, the parties of the management or the owners of the company and also a shorter maturity of the loans, 12 months instead of 3 years. The total share of all loans for state-guaranteed assets is limited to a maximum of 20 % of the annual income generated by the company in the previous financial year. So far it's been 5%. Until the company repays the loan in full, however, it is not entitled to repurchase the guarantee. And now the purpose of the novel. The adoption of the proposed legal novelty will allow the rapid implementation of the SID call by the Bank, the issuing of state guarantees and, consequently, the recapitalisation of banks will also contribute to the objective of restarting economic activity and will help to bring the economic crisis to an end. That's why I suggest you support the marriage novel. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! On 21 June 2012, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia for the Financing of Investments of Economic Companies. For consideration, the law was submitted by the Government, proposing that the law be dealt with and adopted in a reduced procedure. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative technical aspect. The Service also made comments on the provisions of Articles 2, 3, 5 and 7 of the Law. The coalition's parliamentary groups have proposed amendments to Articles 3, 5 and 7 of the bill as a proposal for amendments to the committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance gave the Committee a more detailed presentation of the purposes and objectives of the law. Although the Company Investment Guarantee Act of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted in June 2010, a number of warnings from the economy were aimed primarily at the non-operationality of this law, since the so-called authority had to or must approve any company transaction. Due to the high risk of such guarantees, the law also provided for stricter criteria for granting and securing guarantees. This has proved to be inoperable and the proposed legal amendment removes the institution of the authorising officer and, at the same time, the requirements for insurance are tightened for the assets. The law increases the share of the investment guarantee to 80% of the amount of the loan and corrects certain uncertainties. The provisions of the reverse asset guarantee are extended. The total share of all loans for State guarantees may be up to 20% of the annual income. In the past, this percentage was 5%. This would increase the credit activity of banks and the number of loans. Economic activity is expected to increase and increased economic activity also means greater employment and economic growth. In an additional explanation for the opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that most of the comments from its Legislative and Legal Service were duly taken into account in the proposed amendments of the parliamentary coalition groups for amendments to the Committee. The discussion raised concerns about Article 3, namely the beneficiaries of the guarantee, particularly in the case of a third-country owner. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 3, 5 and 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the basis of proposals for amendments to the Committee of the Coalition's parliamentary groups in accordance with Article 131(8) of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is also an integral part of this report. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Marko Pogačnik on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u46	Dear President, representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! The main objective of the amendment of the Law on the Guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia for the Financing of Economic Companies is to make the law more operational in particular with regard to the guarantee of convertible assets. The solutions provided for by the law shall accelerate the possibility of granting guarantees to the Republic of Slovenia for reverse assets at the same time as a requirement for stricter insurance. The share of investment guarantees increases to 80% of the credit, which is also comparable to schemes around the world. The SDS Parliamentary Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia for the Financing of Economic Companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u48	The law that is before us today is one of the laws that we meet in these weeks, which should address the high indebtedness of the economy and allow for the start of credit activities, so that the state provides guarantees for investment and the return on funds from companies. This is a law that has already been adopted in the previous term, which the current government is slightly correcting in the direction of greater operationality by abolishing the institution of the authorising officer for the purpose of control over the use of funds, and this institution replaces it with a higher insurance in the form of a guarantee that the management of these companies must provide for such guarantees. However, there is no way to get rid of the impression that, after at least this call by the National Assembly to speak about this entire mandate, the government will not find creative powers and ideas to deal with the acute problem of indebtedness of the Slovenian economy. It still claims that the problem is on the supply side and the real problem is on the demand side, the fact is that the Slovenian economy is in debt and that no new institutions are available to allow for faster, more efficient and legal deleveraging of businesses. Social Democrats are therefore appealing to the government once again that, as one of the key instruments for dealing with economic over-indebtedness, it will come into this National Assembly with systematic amendments to the Law on the Financial Operation of Enterprises and insolvency procedures. Insolvent procedures, with which we have serious problems in this society, are the key to achieving a relatively rapid deleveraging of the Slovenian economy. As long as we have considered the proposals of the previous government in this area in this National Assembly, we have proposed the introduction of a rapid bankruptcy as a procedure that can make this possible. We expect the government to come to the National Assembly with appropriate solutions. Investment and asset guarantees are welcome, and the Social Democrats will not oppose the proposed changes to the law. As it is said, this does not eliminate the problem of credit crunch, nor do we address the problem of indebtedness of the Slovenian economy, which is the main reason for the problems of financing and obtaining loans to these companies for the start-up of their investments, especially as a more acute problem for financing their operating assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u49	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the National Gazette, Mrs Kristina Valenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u50	Your Honor! According to the principle of equal access to State guarantees, all companies established in the Republic of Slovenia that fulfil the legal conditions have the possibility of obtaining a guarantee. Following the principle of compliance with the European Union State aid rules, such a guarantee is limited, the guarantee premium is charged, the intentional use of investment funds must be monitored, the prohibition of granting guarantees to undertakings in difficulty which may be dealt with under a specific law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies in difficulty must be respected. On the basis of the warnings from the economy and in terms of greater efficiency and rationalisation of the implementation of this Institute for Economic Recovery, the proposed changes in practice eliminate the unnecessary institution of the authorising officer and instead introduce higher collateral for loans for operating assets by the management of the company and reduce the utility, limit the total share of all the company's credits and introduce a new possibility of providing guarantees also for services and start-up projects, not only for investments. The abolition of the Commissioner's Institute is a waste of considerable costs for companies that have so far had to pay these Commissioners. The Commissioner had a reward, a cost, and a monthly allowance. This solution has also proved to be inoperable, since the authorising officer should have obtained virtually every company transaction. The Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette will support the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Law on the Guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia for the Financing of Investments of Economic Companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u51	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Roman Žveglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u52	Dear Vice-President, Secretary of State, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! We have a credit crunch in Slovenia. In the last 20 years, it has never been more difficult for businesses to reach financial resources. What can a country do here? Of course, we should fix the banking system. Why? Because no one else will. Despite the fact that this is a big deal, it is also a problem that we must stop hiding from. With certain amendments to the Law on the Guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia, which is under consideration today, we introduce solutions for more effective delivery of guarantees, including from the point of view of the State, because I think it is now slowly clear to the great majority that the Treasury is not a bottomless bag and that the guarantee also costs something from the State. In the worst case scenario, taxpayers pay for the wrong decision of a company. First of all, we need to know that the state cannot assume the role of commercial banks or not fully their risk of granting a certain credit. In these circumstances, the role of the State is to help those undertakings which, unjustifiably, either because of the business problems of the banks themselves or because of the general fear that governs financial markets, cannot afford to develop their activities. Let us recall that, in the past, we have already credited, through guarantee schemes, companies that have been practically in a lost position. Remember only the construction giants who showed a completely different situation from the real one years ago and even came up with favourable loans with a state guarantee. While this law is about smaller amounts and in particular the intention of helping small and medium-sized enterprises, this does not mean that there is no need to act economically in the provision of guarantees. For this reason, the novelty on the one hand raises the requirements for credit insurance while at the same time introducing a wider set of solutions to facilitate the provision of credit by beneficiaries. For example, it will also be possible to obtain a guarantee for service activity. It is possible to issue guarantees for already started investments. Low-indebted companies will receive more favourable premiums for obtaining the guarantee. The share of the investment loan, i.e. for the most important loans covered by the State, increases from 75% to 80%. However, a number of concrete changes are being made to all these measures. In this way, we terminate the authorising officer who is supposed to verify that the funds obtained by the guarantees have been deliberately spent. It has been found that such control in this form does not make sense or is, rather, completely ineffective. In order to successfully implement this measure, the Commissioners should be strongly involved in the operation of individual companies, which would also entail an additional cost which would probably not be justified. To this end, the insurance requirements by the company's management will be slightly increased, from 50% to 70%, but at the same time we are expanding the range of insurance insurance. Thus, management can offer any personal or real insurance at the required level. Also, the fact that we demand more responsibility from the company’s management or owners in the form of their assets is something most of us expect to do in the future. Amendments to the law, which, by the way, began to be drafted by the previous government, go in the direction of simplification, but also with a view to the concrete effectiveness of state guarantees. Therefore, we will support the draft law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u53	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marija Plevčak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! With this law, we are slightly correcting last year's novelty, which meant, according to the law adopted in 2010, amendments to the stated needs of the economy and was essentially one of the conclusions of the anti-crisis measures. While most of the provisions were welcome for the economy, we also adopted solutions that were not the most fortunate, as the Institute of Commissioners has proved to be inoperable and incomplete. Its actual introduction would thus make it very difficult for an individual company to operate on a day-to-day basis, which the economy cannot afford in particular at this time. The aim of the law is, therefore, to speed up the possibility of revolving the Republic of Slovenia, while introducing stricter criteria and insurance requirements, while increasing the proportion of the Republic of Slovenia's investment guarantee by 5%, while also eliminating certain uncertainties in the current text of the law. As proposed by the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia in the Parliamentary Group, we agree, because, as stated on the parent working body, these corrections will allow the rapid execution of SID calls by the Bank, the issue of guarantees and the subsequent relaunch of the credit activity of banks and the relaunch of the economy. We hope that this will happen in the parliamentary group, so we will also support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Government, fellow Member and fellow Members! The current law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to finance investments by companies has enabled companies established in the Republic of Slovenia to obtain loans to finance investments. As a result of the first-class insurance provided by the State guarantee, banks are more inclined to lend and thus reach the necessary capital for investments. The first novel of this law in 2011 introduced some innovations that have not yet come to life in practice. Such an example is the Institute of Commissioners of the Ministry of Finance, which have not yet been appointed by the previous Government. The current amendment of the Law on the Guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia for the Financing of Company Investment introduces some innovations and corrects the shortcomings of the legislation currently in force with a view to facilitating the provision of a guarantee to the Republic of Slovenia for revolving assets while at the same time providing more stringent insurance. The current institute of ombudsmen is abolishing. The current amendment of the Act increases the threshold for the amount of the return guarantee, i.e. it would be possible to provide a guarantee for loans for assets up to 20 % of the company's income from the previous year, while in the current law this limit is 5 %. On the other hand, the proposal increases the conditions for insurance. While the current law requires owners or managers to provide insurance for at least 50% of the value of the guarantee, the current amendment increases the insurance to 70%. The proposal also reduces the validity of these loans from three to one year. The share of the credit that can be secured by the State guarantee through the SID of the bank increases from 75% to 80%. In the opinion of New Slovenia, the new law will help to improve the liquidity of those companies that are previously in difficulty and have a good programme and customers. In particular, this applies to companies that have good investment projects or are in previous liquidity problems, and the credit for operating assets in commercial banks is very difficult to obtain today. In this way these companies will be able to obtain funding for the realisation of the business already started or the completion of the project. Members of the New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Republic of Slovenia Guarantee Act to finance investments by companies, as we believe that, together with other measures for the start-up of the economy already adopted or to be adopted in the coming months, it will help to revive the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u57	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Positive Slovenia, he shall have the word mag. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting to all Members and Members of Parliament, the entire auditorium! Hello, too, Minister! Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia for the Financing of Investments of Companies, entered into force on 1 June 2010 and amended in 2011 by amending the extension of the guarantee to convertible assets. In the third paragraph of Article 4, guarantees for loans referred to in Article 2(2) of this Act shall be issued under the following conditions: This institution of Commissioner did not in practice behave, did not come to life. The new law provides the level of insurance of 70 % for operating assets, the President of the Administration, members of the Management Board or members of the Management Board, managers, executive directors, prosecutors, shareholders or shareholders, the beneficiary of the insurance of the Republic of Slovenia provide personal or real insurance, which has not been practiced so far. This reduces the maturity of three-year-to-one revolving guarantees. The total share of all loans for the assets is 20% of the company's income in the last business year. The second loan gets the company when it repays the first loan. Increase the investment guarantee by 80% and the possibility of providing guarantees for services and completion of projects already started. The share of capital must be adequate, at least 35 %, if not, the company must submit a financial plan to achieve this. The invitation to tender shall be chaired by the SID Bank, the introduction of this Act shall be issued by the Government within one month of the entry into force of this Act, within three months. The law seeks to achieve the credit activity of banks for the start-up of economic activities. In Positive Slovenia we will support the law. In Positive Slovenia, however, we have pointed out the dilemmas with regard to the beneficiaries of the guarantee, especially when the country is a third-country owner. There is a gap between the State’s unitary ownership of up to 50% where the state does not have voting rights. It makes sense that the beneficiaries are beneficiaries of guarantees in those companies where the state owns more than one third and has voting rights to influence the transparency of company management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u59	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 11 July, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on investment funds and management companies within the framework of the shorter procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Dr. Dejan Krušec, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u60	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In short, if you allow, I would like to present a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies. The main purpose of the proposal is to supplement the applicable law on investment funds and management companies in force and applicable from 1 January of this year with the rules necessary for the supervision of mutual pension funds and their managers and with criminal provisions for cases of infringements of these rules. The rules introduced by the draft law do not constitute novelty and already follow the rules laid down in the previous version of the law and were in force until 1. 1. 2012. The proposal further increases the limit on the maximum permitted investment exposure of alternative funds, the so-called non-UCITS funds, namely investment funds intended for well-instructed investors who know investment risks. The raising of the exposure limit will allow for greater investment of these funds in Slovenian securities, which will have a favourable impact on the turnover on the Slovenian capital market. The last important novelty is to make it possible to apply the provisions governing the possibility of payments and securities to investment funds and the provisions allowing the establishment of an alternative fund as of 1 August 2012. This will facilitate the transition between the different types of investment opportunities offered by the Slovenian capital market and increase their diversity. The other amendments to the articles are of a technical nature and remove wrong references in the previous version of the law. In short, I can say that the main purpose of the law is to contribute to the revitalisation of the Slovenian capital market, so I hope that you will support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Patrice Schulin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u62	President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 24th emergency meeting. This year, the Government submitted a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 18th session. On 6th this year, it decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified procedure. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative technical aspect. The Committee was also provided with a letter from the Association of Banks of Slovenia proposing an amendment of the Committee to Article 7 of the draft law relating to pension providers of supplementary pension schemes. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law were tabled by the SDS Parliamentary Group, the National Gazette, the SLS, DeSUS and Nova Slovenija, under Article 7 of the bill. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introduction to the explanatory memorandum, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained that the main purpose of the proposal for a law is to supplement the applicable law on investment funds and management companies with the rules necessary for the supervision of mutual pension funds and their managers and with criminal provisions for cases of infringements of those rules. As regards the comments made in the written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stressed that the comment to Article 7 was taken into account by the amendment tabled by the coalition groups. With regard to her comment on Article 10, she pointed out that it was a final provision which provided for the implementation of the proposed law the day after its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, she stressed that the 15-day deadline was normal. However, any deviations from the normal time limit should be duly explained. It takes into account the fact that the explanation of Article 10 does not contain grounds for setting a shorter deadline, it would be appropriate to supplement the proposed law at this point. With regard to the deadline in force, the representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that the immediate implementation was intended primarily because the provisions of the law provide for the supervision of mutual pension funds, which should be implemented as soon as possible in practice. The discussion expressed support for the bill and the amendment tabled by the SDS Group, the National Gazette, SLS, DeSUS and New Slovenia to Article 7. The view was also expressed that the proposed amendments to the law, in particular as regards the exercise of control over mutual pension funds and their managers, were necessary and necessary. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments tabled by the SDS Group, the National Gazette, the SLS, DeSUS and New Slovenia at Article 7. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended amendment is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. The Committee then adopted the following decision: The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to include in the draft agenda of the 5th meeting of the National Assembly the following item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Investment Funds and Companies for Implementation, the reduced procedure, EPA 368-VI.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u64	Social Democrats will not oppose amendments to the Investment Funds and Enforcement Companies Act. It is true, however, that we are not promising from these changes the objective pursued by the proposal of this law is to revive the capital market. It is also worth mentioning in this law that the government seems to have serious difficulties in establishing proper diagnosis for the problems of Slovenian society. The law makes sense to provide a legal basis for the supervision of mutual pension funds and their managers. In this respect, amendments to this Act are welcome as they will provide the Securities Market Agency with a direct legal basis for issuing supervisory decisions regulating the operation of mutual pension funds. The draft law also eliminates certain deficiencies in the existing arrangements, the higher, maximum exposure to non-UCITS investments and deletes the requirement to apply certain provisions of the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act after 1 January 2013. If we want to revive the Slovenian capital market, we should also look at the proposals proposed by the Social Democrats in the context of changes in insolvency law. Why insolvent legislation? Because the problem of overindebted economies has also led to a stagnation in this area. In fact, by disposing the owners of insolvent debtors during a rapid bankruptcy procedure within 45 days, and in the process of determining the credible claims of creditors, the assets of the company or the debtor itself shall be apportioned proportionally according to the existence of these claims, these creditors shall acquire liquid assets after the expiry of this procedure and the debtor shall be in debt to a significant extent. The creditors will, of course, be interested in either managing the debtor or the liquid assets they acquire in the quick bankruptcy process in the capital market. It seems important to us to point out that the problems of the congestion of credit activity, the death in the capital market need to be looked at with real eyes and to see where the reasons are for facing the current situation, and to address the causes in a realistic way, by addressing the problems, but not by individual administrative solutions, we hope that they will solve the problem in themselves. They will not solve the problem, so we are afraid that even in this area the capital market in Slovenia will not be revived because of these changes to this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Ms Kristina Valenčič has the floor on behalf of the Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. In 2000, the Republic of Slovenia adopted provisions on supplementary pension insurance under the new Pension and Disability Insurance Act. The law promotes savings in supplementary pension insurance for both employers and employees with strong tax incentives. In this way, the State seeks to achieve the inclusion of as many insured persons as possible and thus to limit or prevent the deepening of social differences. Currently, in the Republic of Slovenia, collective pension insurance is provided by 11 operators, 5 mutual pension funds, 3 pension companies and 3 insurance companies. The collective additional pension insurance offers an organised way of saving long-term for old age and is a fundamental form of saving employees to compensate for the state pension. The operation of investment funds and management companies must be subject to effective supervision to the greatest extent possible in order to ensure the full safety of investors. In order to ensure these objectives, the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette will support the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Ms Jasmina Opec, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u68	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. We have a new law on investment funds and management companies under consideration, with a focus on mutual pension funds. As it is an increasingly important fund in terms of a better quality future for future pensioners, it is actually strange that the existing law did not provide a legal basis for the supervision of pension funds and their managers. So in a place where we should strive for as many products as possible, to ensure competitiveness and to ensure as many offers as possible, we had virtually no real control. Then we are surprised that the profitability of such individuals is not satisfactory. Thus, Article 497 adds a completely new Chapter for this type of control, specifying both the application of the provisions and the review of operations, infringements and additional measures. For example, a temporary ban on the management of the pension mutual fund and the withdrawal of authorisation for the management of pension funds. In addition, we add some of the corrections proposed by the Securities Markets Agency, in particular in terms of portfolio exposure to certain securities. According to the Ministry of Labour, we have six mutual pension funds. More than 90% of the contributors involved in this mode of savings are managed by two funds under the auspices of the State Blue Insurance. This in particular shows that, while the country has mostly taken care of its public servants, who are paid a certain contribution to the largest mutual pension fund, this kind of savings product in general in Slovenia can be regarded as completely underdeveloped. Slovenia also offers certain tax reliefs to investors in mutual pension funds, following the example of other countries. However, data show that this is simply not enough, since, as has already been said, the number of other investors with exceptionally public officials involved in this scheme is almost negligible. In Slovenia, we want to praise our development, bringing the most developed European countries closer together. Our neighbour Hungary had more than 300 voluntary mutual pension funds in 1999. However, the development of this method of investment in Western capital markets is not a matter of losing words at all. If I round it all up, I can say that in the Slovenian People's Party we are well aware of the functioning of our pension system, which operates on the principle of pre-financing. In the future, this solidarity system will become increasingly difficult to maintain, while the second and third pillars will become key in shaping the final standard for future pensioners. Today we regulate the supervision of mutual pension funds, and in the Slovenian People's Party we hope for a systematic solution to this problem. As has already been said, we need a larger set or greater and more diversified offer in the area of pension savings, and the country needs to clearly define its long-term strategy on this issue, whether it wants citizens to be involved in such savings and to what extent. In the Group of the Slovenian People's Party we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u69	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marija Plevčak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u70	Thank you, for your word. This amendment will complement the law in force with rules for the exercise of control over mutual pension funds and their managers and the criminal provisions for such infringements of the rules. The law also provides for the obligation to conclude a trust agreement for each mutual pension fund. In this regard, we can be sure that this is in the interests and security of investors, at least we hope so. The limit of the maximum permitted investment exposure of certain funds is increasing, i.e. alternative funds and investment firms, following the proposal of the Securities Market Agency aimed at revitalising the capital market in the Republic of Slovenia. In the DeSUS Group, we agree that amendments to the laws on the proposed form are necessary. We hope that they will achieve their purpose, and that is why we will also support this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The new Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies eliminates certain shortcomings in the existing law in order to implement consistently the established principles of this law, namely the principle of effective supervision, the principle of investor security and the principle of proportionality. However, an important novelty of the current law is that it introduces a legal basis for the exercise of control over mutual pension funds and their administrators by the market manager of the agency. It lays down the rules necessary for the exercise of control over mutual pension funds and their administrators and introduces criminal provisions for cases of infringements of those rules. In New Slovenia, we are working towards a transparent and transparent way of operating all legal entities – including mutual pension funds and management companies governed by the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act. The weakness of the current legislation is mainly due to the lack of supervision of the Securities Market Agency over the enforcement of this law. And this incoherence needs to be addressed. As a result of the known situation in capital markets, mutual pension funds have a situation where the actual net value of the mutual pension fund is lower than the guaranteed value of the funds. Where such a derogation is found by the Securities Market Agency in the exercise of control, it shall instruct the mutual pension fund manager to pay the difference to the guaranteed value from his own resources to the special account of the mutual pension fund and set a time limit. In the event that the administrator does not enforce such a decision of the Agency, enforcement may be enforced. In this way, investment in mutual pension funds shall be provided with security. The amendment of the law in order to ensure more effective control of investment funds and management companies and to increase investor safety is necessary and therefore Members of the New Slovenia Group will support this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Aloise Potočnik has the floor on behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u74	Your Honor! The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will not object to the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies, co-existed by the Agency for the Market in Securities and, in part, by the Association of Banks of Slovenia. Two reasons are crucial. First, a direct legal basis for the supervision of the operation of mutual pension funds shall be given to the Securities Market Agency by means of clear supervisory measures, while also implementing the investor protection principle and enhancing transparency over the management of their investments. The second package of changes is heading towards revitalisation of the capital market, and I strongly hope that this will also bring about economies. This increases the maximum allowed exposure of the non-UCITS fund to other securities and money market instruments, from 20 % to 30 %. Just for the sake of visuality and a better idea, let us say that the non-UCITS funds that can be formed or established in the Republic of Slovenia include alternative funds and investment companies. More detailed types of non-UCITS funds are defined by the Securities Market Agency. The same applies to the conditions to be met by the company for the performance of individual types of funds. However, a change allowing investment vouchers to be paid and the redemption of investment coupons with transferable securities from 1 August 1912 is expected to contribute to the alleged accelerated circulation of capital. Therefore, the reasons for adoption following the reduced procedure are quite something and we are assessing that enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u76	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! The main objective of the bill is to complement the existing CISDU-2 with the rules necessary to manage the supervision of mutual pension funds, their administrators and with criminal provisions for cases of infringements of these rules. The content of the proposed solutions does not constitute substantive innovation. Since the law follows the principles of legal certainty, the principle of effective control, the principle of investor security and the principle of proportionality, we will support in the SDS Group a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Investment Funds and Capital Management Companies Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the Member States. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 11 July, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the market of financial institutions under the framework of the cut-off procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government. Dr. Dejan Krušec, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u78	Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! In short, I would like to present a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, for which a reduced procedure is proposed. The main purpose of the bill is to harmonise Slovenia's legal order with the European Prospectus Directive when issuing securities, thereby reducing administrative burdens for issuers of securities and intermediaries as well as improving legal clarity and level of protection for investors. In order to transpose the Prospectus Directive, a number of matters are dealt with. I would mention only a few: a few terms are defined, exceptions to the obligation to publish the prospectus are identified, the content and form of the prospectus summary, the minimum amount of information, the cases of compensation of persons, the validity of the prospectus and the obligation to publish them electronically. In addition to the transposition of the directive, the law also strengthens the protection of confidential information received from third-country supervisory authorities by the Securities Market Agency. The securities market agency shall be provided with direct electronic access to the data maintained by the Central Clearing House and required by the Agency for the purposes of carrying out control, the manner in which the costs of the infringement proceedings are reimbursed and the criminal provisions are coordinated with the law governing the offences. As a representative of the proposer, I believe that the adoption of the new Law on the Market in Financial Instruments will harmonise Slovenian legislation with European standards and strengthen the criminal and supervisory powers of the Securities Market Agency and thus have a favourable impact on the development of the Slovenian capital market. In view of the above, I hope that you will support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to a member of the committee mag. Ms Damjani Petavar Dobovšek for the presentation of the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u80	Nice greetings to all present! Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On the basis of Articles 42, 130, 133 and 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as the parent working body, prepared a report to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, the reduced procedure, EPA 395-VI. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 24th emergency meeting. 6. In 2012, the Government submitted a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. At its 20th meeting, on 15 June 2012, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. The Committee was also given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative technical aspect. On its behalf, the Service made specific comments, namely Articles 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 11, 24, 28, 29, 34, 35, 44 and 56 of the proposal. In accordance with Article 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the SDS, the National Gazette, the Slovenian People's Party, the DeSUS and the NSI on Articles 2, 7, 34, 36, 44 and 56 of the proposal of the Act of 19. 6. 2012, including the SD Group on Article 36 of the bill of 20. 6. 2012 and the Positive Slovenia Group on Article 36 of the bill of 20. 6. 2012. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained that the main purpose of the bill is to bring Slovenia's legal order into line with European law. The proposed changes will help reduce the administrative burdens of issuers and intermediaries and improve legal clarity and investor protection. Solutions to the proposed law also strengthen the protection of confidential information received from third-country supervisory authorities or international organisations by the Securities Market Agency. In addition, the Securities Market Agency shall be provided with direct electronic access to the data maintained by the Central Clearing House. The draft law also provides for the competent authority to implement the provisions of the Securities Market Agency, which are proposed for the fulfilment of the obligation, to regulate the way in which the costs of infringement proceedings are reimbursed and to coordinate criminal provisions with the law governing offences. As regards the comments made in the written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that the service had made two types of comments in its opinion. The first comments are of a nomotechnical nature, namely Articles 1, 5, 6, 11, 24, 28 and 29 of the draft law, in which it explained that the shortcomings would be addressed by editorial corrections. Other comments, however, are of a warning nature. The discussion focused on Article 36 of the bill and the amendments tabled by the coalition groups, the SD Group and the Positive Slovenia Group proposing its deletion. The debate expressed support for the deletion of this Article in particular in terms of ensuring transparency as an important element of building trust in the capital market. Individual members of the Committee drew attention in the debate to the possible negative consequences of the general applicability of fiduciary accounts introduced by the provisions of Article 36 of the draft law. This expressed the view that the negative effects of the provisions of this Article are not only linked to the non-recognition of assets, but also to the difficult recording of changes in the capital market, which would allow for the completely non-transparent sale of equity shares, equity packages and other equity and financial instruments. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the amendments tabled and adopted the amendments tabled by the SDS Group, the Parliamentary Group of the National List, the SLS, DeSUS and the NSI, to Articles 2, 7, 34, 36, 44, 56 of the draft law, the amendment of the SD Group to Article 36 of the proposal and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Positive Slovenia to Article 36 of the bill. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments received, the text of the amended Act, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. The following decision was adopted by the Committee below.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u81	Please finish slowly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u82	Right away. The decision is as follows: the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes that the next item of the agenda be included in the draft agenda for the 5th meeting of the National Assembly, namely the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, the reduced procedure, 395-VI. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Richard Braniselj has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u84	Nice greetings, respectable colleagues, colleagues! The draft law primarily brings into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia the implementation of the Directives of the European Union relating to the prospectus to be published when securities are offered or admitted to trading and the requirements concerning the transparency of information concerning issuers whose securities are admitted to trading on a regulated securities market. The deadline for the implementation of this Regulation is, however, already overdue on 1 July. In addition to this novelty, it also brings solutions that reduce the administrative burden on issuers and intermediaries and raise the level of legal clarity and protection of investors. These measures represent an important step towards revitalising the market for financial instruments, which has been in recession for a long time in Slovenia, and we will therefore support the bill in the National Gazette. The bill is also to the extent possible coordinated with civil society and stakeholders who have also participated in its preparation, such as the Association of Banks of Slovenia, the Securities Market Agency, the Association of Securities Exchange Members, Information Commissioners and competent ministries. It is regrettable, however, that the opposition of other parties leaves us with an important opportunity to introduce the general use of fiduciary accounts for the management of non-materialised securities, as originally proposed. Thus, this option remains only a limited category of entities, but unfortunately it is still not possible in our legal order for all other private investors. For small investors, this service will be more expensive or will be decided for abroad, which weakens our securities market and makes it uncompetitive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Žveglič, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u86	Your Honor, once again a good day! By amending the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, we are very much coordinating our legal order with European legislation. We are also reducing administrative obstacles here, both on the part of issuers and intermediaries and also improving the legal security of investors. The securities market agency, which is the main regulator or supervisor in this area, is legally enabling direct electronic access to the data maintained by the Central Clearing Company. We also designate a competent authority to implement the provisions of that agency, which are intended to fulfil the monetary obligation and to coordinate criminal provisions with the law governing offences. Certain deadlines and obligations exemptions shall be defined and certain terms and definitions specified more precisely. In doing so, there are still some shortcomings and inconsistencies. We unanimously rejected an article that raised a lot of dust during the treatment on the home labour body, allowing for the introduction of fiduciary accounts. Such accounts, which are known by most European countries, actually cover minority owners in individual companies. While it is indeed a matter of reducing the transparency of the stock books, we must be aware that this does not change the fact that any Slovenian citizen can open such an account with a foreign stockbroker. From this point of view, our intermediaries, mostly banks, are certainly not competitive at the level of the European Union, since fiduciary accounts are mainly about reducing indirect costs. As a result, this also means a lower price for a stockbroker service. However, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have assessed that, at a time when there is widespread mistrust in the capital market in Slovenia, it is not appropriate to introduce further an instrument that will further complicate the already insufficient knowledge of capital markets and further reduce the confidence of the lay public to participate in the trading of securities. We hope that we can talk about the solution to this problem in the near future, but today such a solution would justifiably or not cause all too much blood, which is not our intention. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposal of the amended Law on the Market in Financial Instruments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Plevčak has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye to everyone again! The main purpose of the bill is to bring Slovenia into line with European legislation. The proposed changes will help reduce the administrative burdens of issuers and intermediaries and improve legal clarity and investor protection. The solutions to the proposed law also strengthen the protection of confidential information, hopes that the Securities Market Agency will receive from the supervisory authorities of third countries or international organisations. In addition, the Securities Market Agency shall be provided with direct electronic access to the data maintained by the Central Clearing House. The draft law also provides for the competent authority to implement the provisions of the Securities Market Agency, which are proposed for the fulfilment of a financial obligation, to regulate the way in which the costs of infringement proceedings are reimbursed and to coordinate criminal provisions with the law governing offences. In the DeSUS Group, we welcome the deletion of Article 36, which allowed the general use of fiduciary accounts. We believe that its deletion has helped to ensure transparency as an important element of building trust in the capital market. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we will therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u89	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u90	Your Honor! The new Law on the Market in Financial Instruments means harmonising Slovenian legislation on the regulation of the market in financial instruments with European, specifically the Directive of the European Parliament, which Slovenia would be obliged to implement already 1. Seven. 2012. So we are a little behind in coordinating legislation with Europe. The remaining Member States have already transposed that Directive into laws, either in specific laws or in the framework of general capital market laws. The main objectives of the Directive are to improve the prospectus rules to be published by European issuers when issuing securities, to improve legal clarity, to reduce administrative burdens for issuers and intermediaries and to improve the level of investor protection by providing sufficient information for their investment decisions. The new Law on the Market in Financial Instruments introduces European standards in the market for financial instruments, corrects shortcomings and inconsistencies and harmonises criminal provisions with the Offences Act. However, the key innovation brought by the novelty is to strengthen the Agency's supervisory capabilities and powers for the paper market. According to the Financial Instruments Market Act, the Financial Instruments Market Agency is a stand-alone and independent agency whose main task is to eliminate the control of the financial instruments market and of certain financial organisations, and to carry out other tasks and responsibilities laid down by sectoral legislation with a view to ensuring compliance with these rules and thus ensuring the conditions for the effective functioning of the financial instruments market. In carrying out that function, the Agency shall monitor the implementation of legislation in the field of the market in financial instruments and shall propose amendments and additions to legislation in accordance with identified shortcomings or inconsistencies. New legislation is also needed for the continuous development and introduction of new financial instruments. The amendment in question allows the Securities Market Agency direct electronic access to the data maintained by the Central Clearing House depository and requires it to carry out individual controls. By allowing better and more modern supervision, the Agency will make it easier to ensure compliance with the rules in the capital market and help to increase investor confidence, which is essential for the effective functioning of the market. Members of the New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u91	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia shall have the floor of Mrs Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u92	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we will support the proposal for amendments and additions to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments. The aim of the bill is to harmonise Slovenia's legal order with European law, address inconsistencies and shortcomings, reduce administrative burdens for issuers of securities, while improving legal clarity and level of protection for investors. In Positive Slovenia, we have tabled an amendment to Article 36 to delete it, but we have obviously united ourselves since other parliamentary parties have tabled such amendments. This means that, by deleting this 36th Article, it will not be possible to close stock books in order to maintain transparency, since, by introducing a fiduciary account, there would be several questions regarding the dissemination of a circle of customers that may require the management of intangible securities in a fiduciary account. The draft law does not provide that there would be a special centralised register of real securities owners in fiduciary accounts, i.e. within the meaning of the proposal of the law of the persons for whom the fiduciary account holder exercises rights from intangible securities. It would be difficult or impossible to implement laws and other regulations in which the competent authority must obtain data on the property of a particular person, such as enforcement, enforcement of rights from public funds, insolvency proceedings, in particular personal bankruptcy, confiscation of property of illegal origin, as well as criminal or predictive proceedings. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, we will support the proposal to amend and supplement the law by deleting Article 36 and maintaining transparency and strengthening supervisory functions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u93	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, he shall have the word mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u94	Nice greetings to all present once again! On 11 August, a new law on the market in financial instruments came into force in Slovenia, replacing the securities market law. The Law on the Market in Financial Instruments has been amended every year, this time for the fifth time, mainly to comply with European Community Directives, Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council or to transpose and implement rules under Commission Regulations of the European Community. The draft law transposes the 2010 Directive 73 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 amending Directives 2003 and 2004 of the European Community into the Slovenian legal order. The purpose of the bill is to reduce administrative burdens for issuers and intermediaries, that is to say disclosure requirements, printed prospectus forms, translation of prospectus summaries and the like, to improve legal clarity, that is to say, obligations in the sale of securities through intermediaries, obligations in the addition of prospectuses, clearer rules on liability in the formulation of prospectuses and the like, to improve the rules on prospectuses, to introduce simpler disclosure requirements, clearer content of the prospectus summary, simpler data requirements and clearer exemptions in the obligation to publish prospectuses and – very important – to increase the level of protection for investors by providing sufficient information for the adoption of their investment decisions. The purpose of the bill is also to remedy shortcomings and inconsistencies and to harmonise criminal provisions with the Offences Act. It takes into account the fact that the proposed law does not provide for a specific centralised register of real securities owners in fiduciary accounts, the proposed decision would make it difficult or impossible to implement laws and regulations in which the competent authority must obtain information on the property of a particular person. For example, enforcement, enforcement of public funds rights, insolvency proceedings, personal bankruptcy, confiscation of property of illegal origin and criminal or pre-trial proceedings. From the point of view of transparency, we have tabled an amendment in the SDS Group and in the coalition parties to delete Article 36. It was also submitted by opposition parties – this article introduces the general use of fiduciary accounts. Since this Article 36 is unanimously deleted, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments is supported by the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u95	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matvež Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u96	Respected and respected! We Social Democrats are pleased that, at the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy's consideration, wisdom has matured to erase the disputed article of the law, which provided for the general usability of fiduciary accounts, which our legislation already knows as a specific exception. In practical terms, this would mean that in the central register in which securities owners are maintained, the owner would no longer be visible, but the trader. This would significantly reduce the transparency of the Slovenian capital market, the transparency of ownership relations and, in fact, remove the public's share books. In some debates today, we have been able to hear that such a solution would actually contribute to enhancing the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. I think it is time for our society to mature knowledge, after we are faced with such devastating consequences of the economic and financial crisis, that it is time for our society to learn that we do not need competition based on non-transparentness in Slovenia. In this respect, it is worth mentioning that when we decided 20 years ago on the type of securities market in Slovenia, we consciously decided on a type based on a central register that ensures the maximum possible degree of public interest books, and thus, of course, ownership conditions. Social Democrats are pleased that the coalition as well as our colleagues from Positive Slovenia – that we have all come together to understand the danger and harmfulness of the proposed provision, and it is particularly worrying that such a provision on the general usability of fiduciary accounts is proposed by the Securities Market Agency. This is problematic because, as I imagine it, this agency should have, among its principles under which it operates, the transparency of ownership relations and the market in financial instruments as a matter of particular importance. We can only wonder whether such a provision in the bill came after an accident or possibly because someone has promised through it that in the wave of privatisation, which we will witness in Slovenia in the coming months, with the general usability of fiduciary accounts, it will be easy to hide new owners when a trader, such as Nova Ljubljanska Bank or any other financial institution, is recorded in the stock book, but not the one who actually owns the privatised property. Because the Slovenian Parliament has matured to see that the harmful provisions of this law must be deleted, we consider the Social Democrats second to be welcome, so we will also support the proposal for a law on the market in financial instruments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u97	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, the second hearing is concluded. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow in the framework of the vote. I'm breaking this agenda. We're crossing the NA 9. At the end of the day, this is first of all a proposal for a law on amendments to the law on police law. The bill was tabled by a group of 23 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Peter Wilfan. The Group of 10 also proposed or requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. To further explain the bill, I now give the floor to the first-signed Mr Peter Wilfan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u98	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Police for a lot of people in this Chamber is not new, as we tabled it again in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia after the legislative fiasco which took place at the first time the bill was tabled. In Positive Slovenia, we hope that this time the rules will be respected when adopting legislation. In fact, when we first tabled the bill, some in this House made it impossible for us to have a discussion on the working body, which is on the Committee on Home Affairs. Instead, I had to present it to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy under a notable law on the balance of public finances, with considerable surprise from the members of this Committee. It was also heard, I must say completely justified, observations in style that we are talking about here at all. With the re-submission of a bill following a regular procedure, I would like to express, as a member of this national assembly, the protest of violations of the rules of the legislative procedure in the past. This time, all Members, and not only some, who, after the functioning of the National Assembly, were not competent at all, would be able to decide and explain why this bill is suitable for further consideration or why not. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Police Act introduces two new powers of police in the event of cheers. Such a proposal makes it possible to prohibit participation in sports events for a period of 6 months to two years for persons who, as viewers, are caught in the commission of an offence against public order and peace with signs of violence or in the commission of a crime of violence in connection with a sport event and that, given the circumstances, there is a risk that they will commit the same offence. The proposal also allows for the interruption of travel for those who travel to a sports event before leaving at the starting point of travel or during the journey to break public order and peace, and despite the warnings of police officers, they do not cease to do so. With increasing interest in sports events in Slovenia and the fact that more and more Slovenian clubs in various sports sectors are participating and performing in international competitions, given the numerous domestic leagues and other competitions, and the fact that the European Championship in basketball 2013 is also at the door, I think it is time for us to make a step forward in Slovenia, too, in the fight against hooliganism, which has nothing to do with sports or cheerleading. In particular, the 2013 European Basketball Championship will be a high security risk competition, with 24 representatives from all over Europe coming to Slovenia and with them a huge number of their supporters or fans. This will be an ideal opportunity for those fans, of course those under the nicknames, who can especially use such competitions for their violent and other tendencies. With this law, we will finally give the police and the judiciary the tools to protect sports and those who really enjoy it from some who have nothing to do with it. We will send a clear message to the public, including internationally, that these matters are regulated in a European way with us, and that thousands who will come to Slovenia, as well as other participants in sports events, will be able to monitor these events peacefully, relaxed and in particular safe. The government's opinion on the bill is, in principle, positive. The competent ministry, the Ministry of the Interior, also agrees that there is a need for legal change in the area of security at sports events, but they have reservations about non-systemic amendments to the Police Act, which, inter alia, entails certain uncertainties and inconsistencies. Let me point out here that police officers can limit human rights and fundamental freedoms only in cases specified by the Constitution and laws, and all general police powers are covered by the Police Act. So far, new police powers have been enacted in the Police Act or in a certain area law. Since we do not have a law on fans in Slovenia, new police powers are added to the amendments and additions to the Police Act. The bill covers solutions that can be further addressed in the legislative process, improved, including by looking at human rights protection, and therefore I cannot agree to the Ministry's flat-rate claim on non-systemicity. We had a rather constructive meeting with representatives of the Ministry of the Interior before the first time that the proposed law was rejected. On it, the Director of the Police Directorate and the Secretary of State at the Ministry proposed the withdrawal of our proposal, as the Ministry would draw up a Systemic Police Act, which will include the so-called Fans Act. They promised that such a proposal would be prepared as soon as possible and in the debate already at the July session. Our view was that in such a case we would seriously consider withdrawing, since it is not about who makes the marriage, but primarily about getting such a marriage. Since this is not the case, our proposal is again before you, honourable Members and Members. For your support of the bill, where we must not go prestige, who is the proposer and who is not, I thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We will now hear the opinion of the Government presented by the Secretary of State of Mags. Robert Marolt.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Police Act. In fact, the bill adds two new articles and complements some other articles of the Police Act. In fact, it brings the law of solutions already covered by the draft law on the tasks and powers of the police, which the National Assembly discussed at its 31st regular session in the previous term. 9. However, the legislative procedure for that bill ended with the end of the mandate of the 2008-2011 National Assembly. Since the draft law on amendments and additions to the Police Act, which was also tabled by the Group of Members and Members of the National Assembly with the first-signed Member, Mr Peter Wilfan, this year, the new proposal for a law differs only in the fact that, in the eighth paragraph of Article 39 c, the wrong reference to the fifth paragraph of this Article has been deleted. Indeed, the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Law does not bring any new solutions that would not already include a proposal for a law on the tasks and powers of the police prepared by the Ministry of the Interior. In fact, it is only a vocabulary of a slightly revised copy of the provisions, which contains a proposal for a law on the tasks and powers of the police. Also in terms of protection and respect for human rights and freedoms, the proposal for a law does not contain any additional safeguards. Nor does the draft law take into account the comments or does it follow the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Interdepartmental coordination on the new proposal for a law on police tasks and powers has been completed, but we must not forget that an agreement has been reached between the Police Union of Slovenia, the Police Union of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, in one of the points determining that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, without social dialogue and seeking agreement with the trade unions, will not propose a law to regulate the organisation and work of the police and the tasks and powers of the police. The two trade unions are still coordinating on the content of the proposal for both laws. Thus, the law on the tasks and powers of the police, together with the law on the organisation and work of the police, will form a substantive whole, as soon as possible to be transmitted to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and then to the National Assembly in law. It is therefore totally non-systematic to complement only two articles of the current Police Act, since the law on the duties and powers of the police is a substantive whole. In addition, we must not forget that the partial amendment of the Police Act would entail additional unnecessary costs for the budget and would further burden taxpayers, especially in times of severe economic and financial crisis. For all these reasons, the Government does not support the adoption of the law and considers that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u101	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, Mrs Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u102	Thank you for your word and a nice hello again. Although we do not have problems with the content of the bill in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. We agree that this area needs to be regulated, although we believe that there are also levers now that can prevent and control the undignified and violent behaviour of organised cheerleading groups. What is more important is the fact that the Police Act is not a law that can be amended just like that, today, one article, tomorrow is another article. We believe that amendments or additions to such laws need least inter-sectoral coordination and then coordination, such as with trade unions and other stakeholders. In particular, amendments to such laws should be prepared professionally, with all the intended consequences that follow. For what can quickly come into the area of unjustifiable and unjustifiable human rights abuses, which can have irreparable and grave consequences. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, on the basis of these arguments, we estimate that the law is not suitable for further consideration. In view of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on this bill, we expect that the Government will actually draw up a good and systematic proposal for changes to this area, which we have already heard, in interdepartmental coordination, which is the only way to change such repressive areas as the functioning and powers of the police and as they represent interventions to restrict rights and freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u103	Thank you. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honorable representative of the government, distinguished colleague and colleague! We have before us a proposal for a new Law on Police, which has been tabled in the legislative procedure by a group of Members and Members. The content of the proposal refers to two new powers of the police regarding the management and prevention of misconduct and violence of organised cheerleading groups and individuals at sports events or sports events. In the DeSUS Group, we understand the intention of the candidates and support the idea that heated fans should be calmed down and prevented or even removed from the game if necessary. We also believe that the proposal brings a number of good solutions that would make sense to introduce them into Slovenian legislation. Unfortunately, however, the proposed solutions affect the organisation and the work of the police, which is governed by the law on the tasks and powers of the police. Any amendment to the law affecting the organisation and work of Slovenian police officers must be aligned with the representative trade unions. Therefore, it would be more appropriate for the applicant to regulate the problem of cheering by amending that law rather than the Police Act. However, these unions are coordinated by the Government, which is preparing a new law on the tasks and powers of the police. In the DeSUS Group, we expect the Government to include the solutions presented by the proposal for a novel, which we are deciding today, in its proposal for a law. Since we believe in the DeSUS Group that this issue should be regulated in another law already being drawn up by the Government, this time we will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u105	Thank you. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u106	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! I think that we all very much like to monitor sports events, including those commented by colleague Wilfan, who is proposing this law, and that sports events should be a holiday of fairs and a place of friendly association. But it is clear to all of us that all too many of these sports events are born into some manifestation of violence, racism and anything else. Surely there is no individual in this room who would not support in a substantive sense what his colleague Wilfan has proposed – this is to at least try to limit the arrival of hooligans to stadiums, sports halls and elsewhere, and to prevent this by increasing the powers of police officers to only participate in the ban or interrupt some journey abroad, where our fans in a very violent way would also create a bad image of Slovenia. In a substantive sense, we also support the proposal of colleague Wilfan in Novi Slovenija. I'm not going to bend anything here, and I'm not going to use any mitigating circumstances, because we all know how our rules of procedure are and that there's a technical problem here. From the Government’s explanation, we have heard that the Government is preparing a new law for the fall that will regulate these matters even more broadly. Now we have a problem – if we support this law submitted by colleague Wilfan, then in some ways it is blocked in autumn to deal with the legislation prepared by the Government and which will be much wider. And for this very reason alone – I hope that colleague Wilfan will understand – we will not support this law, we will oppose it, but with great joy we will support it in the autumn in a broader government law and will certainly bear this law even if I may say so, Wilfán's seal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u107	Thank you. On behalf of the Group Positive Slovenia, Mrs Alenka Bikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u108	Your Honor! In Positive Slovenia we support the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Police Act. The bill offers solutions in the case of cheerleading incidents, which the police, the Ministry of the Interior, individual clubs and experts are of the utmost importance. In Positive Slovenia we hope for wider support of the bill also in this Chamber. On the issue of the safety of all viewers and visitors to sports events, the prestige of the proposal should not be put at the forefront. The bill is good and important for a safe visit to sports events, so it does not matter who proposes it. The Ministry of the Interior, which is responsible for regulating this area, does not object at the principal level to the proposal of the law. Several times it has even stressed that they are preparing such legislation themselves, which we have already heard today, but unfortunately it has not yet seen the legislative start in this mandate. In Positive Slovenia, we have therefore decided to introduce these two police powers into the system law in the field of police, this is the Police Act, because it is good that Slovenia will be in time to comply with the Police Act, which will prevent fans from participating in sports events, and the police could even stop their journey to a sports event because of inappropriate behaviour. Such powers of police would also be welcome in the light of the organisation of the European Basketball Championship in 2013, as we never know at which sporting events such incidents may occur. Practice shows that accidents do not happen only in football games and not only among domestic fans. The law with these powers would be welcome in response to all international sports associations, how we will take care of security in Slovenia at sports events with international participation. I therefore reiterate that in the Group of Members, Positive Slovenia has decided that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we support and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u109	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u110	Dear President, Secretary of State with a team, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a law that is part of the comprehensive content of the law, which was first published on the website at the end of 2010. Despite the fact that the draft law has been in the public for almost a year, the previous government team has not been able to bring it through parliamentary procedure throughout the year until the end of the term due to early elections, which clearly speaks of the speed of action of the previous government. The proposal for a law before us and the proposaler has also presented it well is therefore an exception to the work of a much more complex solution, which we are looking forward to in the proposals of the law on the tasks and powers of the police and the law on the organisation and work of the police. And these two laws will fully address the issue of police powers, police procedures, ensuring the legal security of persons dealing with the police and much more. In this comprehensive solution, therefore, a particular emphasis will also be placed on this issue of solving violations of public order and peace and threatening security at and at sports events. So there's going to be a part of the so-called Cheerios Act. In the SDS, we attach the idea that these matters need to be resolved. But a few articles of the law, prescribed from a comprehensive arrangement, will not bring greater security to the games, no less hooligans will be in front of the halls and stadiums. At the very least, now that sports courts are alone and sports collectives have the main problem of putting together teams and also when sports enthusiasts are gathering energy outside sports facilities. There is therefore a requirement for a general debate ahead of us. I hope that the proposaler did not want to show that this is a universal phenomenon or that these excesses appear mass; therefore, that we are Slovenians of a kind of hooligan. I also hope that this desire, after discussion by the proposer and co-signatory, will also move to the city council of Ljubljana, from which we have heard that the debates are not supported and allowed. I therefore stress: in the SDS we are aware that in the area of the content of the law, there are excesses, we condemn them and support solutions that will make sports events safe and interesting to sports enthusiasts and not hooligans. Solutions must be comprehensive and systematic, and this law does not, despite its good intentions, bring or guarantee. Nor has the comprehensive legal basis actually ensured that actual security at and at sports events will improve. In our view, therefore, today's debate can help as a good EPP with regard to security in this area, and important issues may be raised. We also need to have an educational system and the role of the media, as well as the issue of our culture and our values. Here sometimes there is a problem when the media are still inflating or empowering excesses, when in the media there are inappropriate statements by individual sports officials, and in particular negative and poor performances of successful sports events. Perhaps I should like to illustrate with an example, since I am not only facing sports events and events, but also in the field of culture, youth, tourism, whether it is an international sport event, a local derby of two teams, a good concert in the gym or outdoors, or a purely homely garden party, where every organiser is afraid of excesses at his event. I myself had this opportunity to be among the main organizers of the event or event that brought over 18,000 visitors to our congregation and was highly at risk from many factors. In those few months, we had only two questions in our head about how to get into Guinness's record book and how to provide for the safety of visitors. For such a multitude of men cannot adequately protect a hundred officers, two hundred guards, three hundred rulers. There could be an innocent bar fight or a minor fight — and the next day they would have brought all of this to the headlines and again a security issue would be raised when, instead of the result or content of the public, other images were blinded. In practice, too, a large number of police officers, editors and security guards can only mitigate such events, and unfortunately they cannot be prevented. There is also the issue of powers or, above all, the problem of overstepping powers by police officers. Here we go to a very slippery terrain, where these same self-proclaimed guardians of public order and peace can begin to speak on the other hand about human dignity. They probably don't imagine a cop who, for his own safety, has to decide, for the safety of the participants, in micro seconds, how to react so that he doesn't become a criminal instead of a hero. Here is also the question of alcohol before, honey and, of course, after the game. We are very conservative here in Slovenia, in my opinion, even too. Instead of training, we banned alcohol from sports events and thought that things would be settled because we had disciplined visitors or some viewers in our heads, like some theatre performance, sitting in peace and there applauding and not getting pressured by any suspicious court decision. Since the thrill move can soon be too much, you shake hands with a neighbor who is a fan of the opposite team, the word gives the word and sing the fists. And you can follow the ban on going to sports events. Personally, I had the opportunity to go to several sports events both at home and abroad, and let this be local games, international matches, various derbies. I am interested in monitoring security measures in the stadium, in the halls regarding security fences and cameras. I am personally impressed with English stadiums, safety before and at stadiums, and especially with the culture of visitors. No harassment, not even the spirit, not hearing about hooligans near sports events. I don't know if this is due to some of the articles of the law prescribed in another law on preparation. Great Britain has the most stringent measures and the most systematic solutions in this area. For example, there is a prohibition on the use of public transport itself on the day of the sport event, which can temporarily seize passports and thus prevent them from participating in international competitions. They also have cooperation between the police and the football club in this country, so that the police provide photo clubs to the worst rioters who are prohibited from entering sports venues. So, these things have been dealt with systematically. On the occasion of this, I would like to know whether the first person to be married in his rich sports career has some bad experience in sports cheering before, during and after games or in sports venues or at sports venues. I believe that the security should consider the records of so-called dangerous people or so-called hooligans who would temporarily or permanently be granted individual sanctions. This is not only about sports events but about the security of citizens in everyday life. So, Your Honor, let me finish. We do not object to today's debate in the SDS, but we believe that it is good in the light of the debate before the legislation that is being drawn up has not yet been adopted, as the Secretary of State has said, because they are still in line with those who will implement it. Well, with the cops. Once the lawmakers have aligned themselves with the implementing agents, we will support such systemic solutions in the SDS. But today's partial solutions will not be supported in the SDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u111	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will support the draft law at first reading. This is probably not surprising, and it is not a coincidence that we have been preparing solutions in the previous mandate to deal with security risks in the event of major sporting events. Of course, it is now possible to discuss how fast or how slowly legislation was being drafted, but early elections have halted the legislative process. And now for the second argument. We have heard from the Government that it opposes the proposed solution, if it is a partial solution, waiting for a systemic solution. It would be nice and just like that if the government did not in most cases come up with partial solutions in short-term procedures and emergency procedures, and so consistently or generally avoid comprehensive solutions, where the consequences are often very worrying and sometimes unpredictable, and they themselves have not been able to argue precisely enough. So much for this, I'd say in this case, what's the government's cynical point of view. As far as speed is concerned, the question is also raised. We do not know exactly how quickly the Government will be able to reach agreement with the social partners if it is taken seriously that what it proposes will be urgently coordinated with the social partners. The solutions that are proposed and which increase what is essential to the Social Democrats are to strengthen the preventive mechanisms rather than to face the consequences. This is exactly what the Social Democrats mentioned and encouraged in the previous mandate, because there are either many active or other athletes in our group, or we come from an environment where the work of the cheerleading groups is very noticeable. We can, of course, ease our conscience and say that we are nothing different in Slovenia than we are elsewhere in Europe. Allow me to inform you of the results of the survey published by the European Union Human Rights Agency, this is the 2010 report, which was based on questionnaires from all 27 members of the European Union and covers sports events between 2003 and 2008. It is interesting to note that they took up three sports, namely, football, athletics and a third sector, and the country chose to do so and Slovenia chose Alpine skiing. The study examined racism, ethnic discrimination and exclusion of migrants and minorities from sport. It is interesting that it was at least possible to establish in women's sports that there were no major events detected in athletics, Slovenia is mentioned in skiing due to the requirement of nationality for participation on a national basis. Of course, the most massive violations or most of the events are related to football. I would like to point out that, as mentioned in the comparative review, some things and some positive practices have already been regulated, but that these positive practices are the result of the cheering savagery of the past – I mean, of course, the UK. But if I review the number of incidents reported by the police, different equality bodies and non-governmental organisations in male professional football, during this period of five years, 385 incidents were detected in the Netherlands, in Poland 97, in Spain 57, in France 70. We can be calmed down; there are not many violations of Slovenia, but Slovenia is in another table, which is called how many countries have passed any penalties for incidents and here Slovenia is mentioned among football players or events. It is also mentioned by individual nationalist failures at basketball events. That is why this moment, which Mr Wilphan is talking about, is worth trying to regulate some preventive measures before the European basketball championship, even in legislation, an attempt worth supporting. Of course, we could now also talk about what might be in the light of the protection of human rights and in the light of yesterday's opening of the exhibition here in the lobby of the National Assembly is particularly memorable. In February this year, an unacceptable incident was detected at a handball game in Maribor. I believe that from the memory of many, the young men have already cried out, "Sknife, wire, Srebrenica." Some people are just taking courage in the crowd, and as long as such courage is expressed in the crowd, we usually condemn it in a mass way, we become appalled at it, and then, as a rule, when an individual of this crowd is identified, we try to evaluate it differently in different ways than he originally was. Remember just the attackers at Cafe Open, say, when they say so, because that's different, all right, guys, it only got them carried away once. To avoid such events, where individuals in the crowd are gaining courage for unacceptable nationalist outbursts, it is right that we also create the atmosphere that we care about the fact that such incidents do not occur at major sporting events. And those who cry out, "Kill, kill the frog." or something like that; or in the local environment, we listen to the consequences of hooliganism. I'll just say hooligan, not so-called hooligan savagery. It is simply that cheerleading groups are given, that cheerleading groups can be organised and obtained for another activity. Or that they're being snuck in by someone who can use such a cheerleading group as a misdemeanor, not to say hostile behavior. It is therefore right to face such setbacks and to do everything necessary to prevent hooligan accidents at sports events. We are aware that the constitutionality of public assembly, the constitutionality of public expression and freedom of speech must be respected, but always limited when these things are directed against an individual or against other groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u113	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mrs Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The Police Act is a system law and one of the most important repressive laws in this country. It provides a framework for the functioning of the police as a body within the Ministry of the Interior and at the same time confers on the police a number of powers by which it lawfully and in accordance with the principle of proportionality interferes with the legitimate human constitutional rights and freedoms. This is precisely why any changes to this law must be addressed with caution and with serious consideration, as the fragile relationship between the effectiveness of the police and the protection of endangered values on the one hand and the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms can be rapidly undermined. It is particularly important to carry out appropriate analyses and to attract expertise to the changes, to carry out cross-cutting coordination and to gain the opinion and views of lawyers and police unions. The draft law introduces two new articles, paragraphs 39c and 39, which introduce the conditions for determining a measure banning participation in a sports event to fans who violate public order. The draft law does not follow the guidelines referred to above, so the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code considers that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Nor does the bill take into account the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The bill also overlaps to a large extent with the new government proposal for a law on the tasks and powers of the police, which is already in interdepartmental coordination with Articles 62 and 63, and will arrive at the National Assembly in the autumn. Pursuant to the proposal of the new first paragraph of Article 63 of the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police, a measure to suspend travel to a sports event may be given to a group of fans who violate the provisions of various other rules, not only the law on the protection of order and peace. Such a solution, proposed in accordance with the difficulties in practice, as groups of fans commit crimes, violate the provisions of different road safety regulations, railway safety regulations, disregard police orders and orders and could also be listed. As it is said, in the Group of the National Gazette, we consider that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u115	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Wilphan, of course, you may at any time be included in the debate as the first to be signed on behalf of the applicants. I give my word to Mr. Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Today, when I listened to the presentations of the opinions of the members of the groups, I am kind of imagining what will happen in our country if we adopt certain laws in our pocket with such a fig in our pocket if we want to make changes in our pockets. Look, let's all figure out that something has to be done in this area. When it comes to safety, something has to be done quickly and immediately. It is therefore necessary to find a way to regulate the matter in order to prevent any possibility of violence and of endangering the safety of people or those who cheer or others who have come to watch a sports event. Yesterday we heard the Prime Minister of the Government say that it was not enough just the intention, that it was too little just a wish. Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members, here is not the intention, but the way to resolve it. Of course, there is a system law on the police in preparation, but there is nothing yet to be said about what we will do in September, October, November, when such an inappropriate matter will occur or if such an inappropriate matter will occur on sports grounds. And it's not just that it's gonna happen and we're gonna wait for it to happen, I don't know how many. As my colleague said, we don't have that much, and if we think that our country is so threatened, we have such rude fans. No! No! One case is enough. One case alone can cause enormous damage, it can endanger lives and only because of one case should action be taken immediately. And we know it's not a lonely case, it's a lot of them. By adopting this part of the law, these two articles, which we are amending, which will then be easily incorporated by the ministry into the system law, we will give a message to all those who are planning or perhaps just thinking that they could step out at sports events as some big boss, that it is not worth it and that it is better not to do so. In the light of the Ministry's proposal to draw up a system law, we are talking about preventive measures, educational measures to be put into place immediately in school programmes already implemented by schools, but not as successful as this law, which the Ministry will then submit to the National Assembly, can also be adequately resolved. If we have adopted so many laws quickly, look, but now this law is going according to normal procedure, so that we can talk about doing what is good and beneficial for our citizens and citizens, and above all it is for young people. I don't know why we wouldn't accept and confirm what you were saying about your intentions, that you wanted and were willing to do something. Otherwise, I really don't know how we're gonna spin. Today you are in training, and another time someone else will be, and only because it hastened a little – but it hastened because we can do it, and the government or the ministry can't, because it talks to the unions. [[...]] But it's not just these two articles and these powers that are being discussed, it's talking about a systemic solution, and I believe that the union needs to solve this. However, I am convinced that there would be no resistance in the police force, since the police are defending themselves and want to have better and more authority to act immediately. So I really don't see any reason not to support it. I will support myself, and I believe that one of you who has yet to consider whether it is necessary to support it will change your mind and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u117	Mr Franz Jurša, Mr Mirko Brulc, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u118	Dear, good-bye! When I listened to positional discussions, I should take, I don't know, apavrin or persen or drink camels, because what's going on here is something amazing. The excuse that the law is in preparation, and the National Assembly has nothing to do — one and a half days of our meeting, if we count down yesterday. You don't need the National Assembly! Then you're looking for options if there's no time to coordinate. I'm asking you, how did you coordinate for the law? And the excuse that this amendment of the law brings additional costs to the state! Please! Give some sense into your hands and see what's going on around the world and across Europe! How they solved the problem of hooligans in other European countries. If some are not able to be brought up, they simply need to be put into order or prevented from arriving at the stadium. When I take my grandson to the football game, I also want to go home normally, watch the game normally, enjoy it. And it's not that the neighbor "snatched" the audience at the game and started fighting. These are your arguments why you do not accept this law. But where do you live?Oh, my God! Where do you live when 330 seats were broken down at headquarters and caused 25 thousand euros of damage?Oh, my God! And we are talking about the financial burden this law will bring to the state and taxpayers! There was one argument that no one said, except that he was in preparation and that the matter was being cooked and that it needed to be coordinated and I don't know what it was. But we take everything urgently, quickly, secretly, and I don't know what it's all about. See, the safety of all participants in sports, cultural events and all other meetings is essential. There are innocent people dying all over the world. How did the Turks solve the matter? They filled the stadium with women, children who threw flowers at the stadium, not firecrackers and torches, and I don't know what happened at the European championship; and especially from the Balkan area. Let's not be the same. I am for human rights — and that is an excuse, you know — I am for human rights! The police need to know how they can take action against the thugs to protect those who are innocent. I don't mind if there's a security guard at the front door, here at Maximarket, because I come with honest intentions, not with the intention of stealing something. And I don't feel threatened by myself when I'm in the store because there's a video camera somewhere. How many vehicles have been destroyed! The Mariborians destroyed the Celje gas station when they returned home, and now the problem is not only the Mariborians, but also everyone else. That the problem of restricting freedoms — see when a hoodlum is behind bars or is prevented from endangering all of us — is not a threat to freedoms. The kid who took the knife, who went with the knife to an event here in Ljubljana, to meet his friends. How can you protect the one who died innocently? We must give the violators and those who repeat themselves a clear message: we will not allow you to do so, we will stop you at the doorstep so that thousands and tens of thousands can enjoy it. That's what we need! Now don't make excuses for some negotiation and union! How the hell did you lower your pension? What kind of unions did you talk to? With Desus? Who? But here, I don't know who to talk to, just so things don't go any further. This addition to the Police Act will be adopted and I will wait for the law on the police to come. For, as has been said, since 22 September 2011, Anton Kolarič of our parliamentary group has begun to force the matter. And nothing's happening. The National Assembly really doesn't have anything to do. Nimah! Today we can finish in half an hour. Get yourself — those who have fallen for the government — to work for the citizens and citizens to live freely, decently, rather than impaling them, to squeeze them to the ground, and to find things that do not come about in a democratic order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u119	Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music. After him, Mrs. Sonja Ramshak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u120	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm going to start with this: Do you ever think about how the parents of those children who are no longer among the living are feeling because this happened somewhere at a sports event? Why do you think Mr. Wilphan, who has always been involved in sports, proposed and introduced this law? It's not like I'm stealing someone's time. It's not like I'm running over someone's left or right. No! No! He did so after careful consideration because he is concerned about what will happen at the upcoming sports events that we have ahead of us, and we need to act today and not tomorrow when it is too late. The question is how to protect the innocent, how to protect those, as my predecessor has made clear, that when he and his grandson go to any event, he wants to go away satisfied and, above all, safe and not as it is at some of the events, unfortunately, we do. Someone from the coalition mentioned that the proponents do not think that we are too hooligan in Slovenia or that we are all hooligans. Please! What do you want to make of this circus, what do you want to make of it? I don't know what! We know exactly who this law is intended for! The law is designed to protect all those who want to live normally in this country and all those who want to participate normally in all sports events. At least what we want is to have an accident at sports events, one way or another. I don’t want to be one of my parents — because I’m also worried when my two sons go to any event — to worry. Whenever there's a bigger game at the Koper Stadium, first I think about how security is taken care of. Whether the police can prevent – or not a problem in the powers of the police, the problem is that if we do not have a regulated law, those who do not want to come to any sports event are not meant to follow the game, to cheer for better, for those who are on the field, but their intention is to make chaos or as we say – a casino. This is not right and this is what this novelty of the law is about. Apologize to the unions, to the system law prepared by the Government and put into parliamentary procedure in September, everything is so brought about, that it is too fast and so on. Until yesterday, we have changed almost 50, 60, 70, we are approaching 100, since we have adopted such or different laws in this emergency procedure or after a reduced procedure, but this bill is of a preventive nature, so let us prevent something that we do not want to happen. These are regulatory measures aimed at increasing safety at sports events. Unlike the multitude of laws we have dealt with, it seems right for us to adopt this law, and it does not seem right for us to have not adopted this law since it was first introduced. Clearly, it is more important than what the law proposes, not what the law brings, but even if it is about increasing security. You all agreed when you had a presentation of the opinions of the members of the groups that you agree that it is okay, that it is right, but unfortunately you will not support this law, because you will support this when it is included in the law prepared by the Government. What would be wrong if we supported it today? Does not the water burn because we do not want to turn Slovenia from positive to negative? I don't know why you're such a scoundrel. Interresor coordination is needed, the representative of the SLS said. Interresor coordination is required. For God's sake, how important is this to the Inter-Resort, as you will now coordinate to amend the two articles when we talk about safety at sports events?Oh, my God! Did you cross-resort yourself about a lot of things when we were talking about the ZUJF? Today, we find that many of the shortcomings brought about by the changes in many laws that have been passed in one way or another are in haste. But when we talk about prevention and security — no! You are citing the need for inter-resort coordination. You had all this time a month before, and you didn't get along! I'm just putting something down for you — those who will vote against this law. If there will be an accident, God will not give you a death sacrifice, it will happen at any sports event from today, take this on your conscience, because you have also contributed! We want to actually hurry where we can, and we need to empower the police that those who actually work persistently on accidents and work persistently from a positive sports event do not have a bad climate, so that they do not even come to such an event. We don't need them. We don't need hooligans in stadiums, we don't need those who want to relax their negative energy where we shouldn't. That is why, colleagues and colleagues, I call on you, however, regardless of the unanimity and other instructions you have just received – perhaps you have received them in one way or another, but this is usually at least for some of the parties – to vote in your conscience and to vote in favour. But you said you agreed! Don't wait till September if we can solve the situation in July. However, we will again vote in September if we have to. When we pointed out to the system law that it needed to be dealt with systematically, you said no, that we had to hurry, that it was in a hurry. When we talk about safety at sports events, there's no rush! Thank you for being like this.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u121	Mrs. Sonja Ramšak, for her, Mrs. Maria Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u122	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues, bill-makers! I believe that the law is going in the right direction and that is why Mr Wilfan wishes to settle this law in an area which is not properly regulated in our legislation. However, I must say here that unfortunately I will not support the law, and I will explain why. In fact, as a former sportswoman and as a great sports fan, I believe that there is a lot to be done in the country in the preventive area, not only when we say that hooligans need to be locked up, punished and prevented in the country, but also because there is a need to raise the values of a common denominator. In fact, it all starts already, as with big other things, including kindergarten, school, and so on. I must say that I am a very large supporter of the SKL – the one who knows what it is – the school basketball leagues. Why? Because there our children, that is our greatest wealth, prove over and over again that even in sports can be enjoyed, can be properly cheered and encouraged by the one who is on the other side of the team if he makes a nice move. However, I am here to join the opinion of the Government and the Secretary of State, who introduced us to the Government's position that these things should be regulated systematically. But I would touch on one more thing, because I see that my colleagues have also moved away from this topic in the debates, and I would say that sometimes I would also ask myself whether I should take apavrin, persen, or buy a possible chamomile or some other stronger potion when I listen to some of the debates, when we MEPs and Members do not give the right look to our public. In fact, sending in the debates of the President of the National Assembly in the corner, if you are, here is a "cheese and wait" and be quiet, or discussions such as yesterday, when we listened to the answers of the Government, the President of the Government and the ministers to the questions put by Members when we use a vocabulary such as "save hysteria", "moral gambling" and similar matters in our debates. I think that is precisely why a system law is needed to regulate this area more broadly, which will also ensure that citizens and citizens are happy to go to any public event. Speaking of hooligans, let me touch that word. Yeah, hooligans, but you know, for me, even bigger are those hooligans who have damaged social property, but we don't call them that and we punish them for hurting us with millions of dollars in damages, with exculpatory judgments, or just possibly with some kind of reprimand. While for those who commit minor offenses, we also use prison sentences — a year, two or so. I must say that I am very excited about the solutions used by English law. It also seems very important to me that when an event is taking place and when it comes to endangering the safety of those involved in a public event — I will speak specifically, in football — and when the throwing of torches and similar items on the court or among viewers begins, the police should also have the power to immediately expel such a person from the facility, to bring him before the judge and to condemn him immediately. These solutions, which we have before us today, do not allow this. That is why, Mr Wilphan, I hope that the Government will indeed keep this promise and that in the autumn, early autumn, I will place this on the government's and the competent minister's conscience, this area will be settled. So much for me, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u123	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Plevčak. She's not here. Mrs. Masha Kociper, for her mag. Ivan Vogrin. Masha Kociper cancels the debate. Here you go, mag. Vogrin. After him, Mrs Janja Klasinc, if not, and Mr Jožef Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u124	Thank you for saying so. I think tolerance for violence is harmful. Research shows that Slovenians are too tolerant and to try a law that would limit this tolerance and increase security, I think it is good. In fact, it is very sad that a person who would like to attend a public sports event with a child has serious concerns, for there may be a violent accident and he is injured or injured by his family members. For this reason, I think it would be good to find enough wisdom and understanding and to support this proposal no matter what side of the proposal it comes from. In this particular case, too, the question arises whether after twenty-one years of independence we are a mature decision-making society. Why? So far, twenty-one years of the system of the National Assembly and the State has acted so that when a proposal comes from the coalition, it is adopted when it comes from the opposition. The fact that we are in a deep crisis, that we will get further into the crisis, and that we will probably have demonstrations in the autumn, because people have nothing more to live for, is also the reason that we are not able to cooperate. I believe that it would be good and necessary to cooperate in the interests of all citizens and citizens. In fact, there is also a measure of disrespect for the applicant. Look, we don't want to go past the fact that he's a former high-level athlete who knows the matter, who felt it on his skin and felt it every day. Do we have any relation to our top athletes and people who have achieved much? I think there's a certain relationship in this, too. Therefore: Let us find sufficient wisdom and wisdom after twenty - twenty years, and let us not reject every proposal! The second reading of this proposal can also be complemented by what the Government proposes and the procedure should be accelerated. However, I have the feeling that, in fact, without my personal eyesight to the present opposition or the previous opposition, because the current position has been in the past and has been the same. During the 2008-2011 term, virtually no opposition proposal was adopted. And even now no one has been accepted. Where does that lead?Oh, my God! This leads to division, dispersion, leads to bad solutions, and we need good, reasonable, wise solutions that will bring this country forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u125	Mr Matjaž Zanoškar, behind him Mr Happy Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Honorable representative of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia submits this modification of the law on police for a purpose and a reason. This reason is also evident in the fact that in recent times and in recent times there have been incidents at various sports events, which has clearly shown that the law has not been quite plentiful and that it has been able to provide answers to such incidents. In the light of future events of sports events in Slovenia, it is also right that Slovenia should adapt its legislation in such a way that the police can act in such cases. Like the previous speaker, colleague Vogrin, said that this time and here it is not just a matter of studying or recognizing this modification for the good, for the quality, for the opposition and defiance of the ruling coalition, that it does not matter what the proposal is, it is important that it does not come from the right side. So the proposer in this case is not the right one. He's not the one worth listening to. I am sure and I am afraid that this voting machine will vote in the same way as the Government's opinion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Representatives of the government, you can't convince me that you're saying that modifying the law on police is not good because it will increase the costs, the costs of measures, the incidents arising from sports events. You can't convince me that you haven't aligned yourself with the social partners, i.e. the police union. That doesn't convince me either. And I am not convinced by the reason you say that the law is not systematically regulated, that the law should be systematically regulated. One thing we follow in Positive Slovenia is that this modification and correction of the two articles in the Police Act achieve greater security for citizens and citizens. Is it necessary to think about the costs when it comes to this elemental element, value, security of citizens and citizens? You're talking about costing. What kind of expenses?Oh, my God! You're saying you haven't agreed with the unions. Then let us talk to the police unions ourselves about systemic solutions. I am in favour of implementing and forming a system law, and I am in favour of continuing to approach systemic solutions. But this time, when it comes to such a small thing, such a small thing that will contribute to the security of citizens and citizens, you object. Of course, even coalition parties that have presented their views today will also oppose this or vote that the law is not suitable for further consideration. So on such a small, small segment, which concerns security and, last but not least, through this modification, also raising some kind of cheer culture, if you want, on such a small segment we fall or do not adopt appropriate conclusions and support these changes because they do not come from the good side. Another opposition party, the Social Democrats have said well and explained their position well, and I very much agree with this and I very much support this position. So let us leave and, in your opinion, let the situation be like that, leave freedom to violence, leave freedom to such conduct as we have already witnessed at various football or other sports events. Let me tell you that I come from a small place, Slovenia Gradec is not such a big place, and there happens to be a U12 game; you know, in football these are little boys. And at such a U12 game there is an incident; with firecrackers, violence, etc. There is no need to look for a major event, a major event in Slovenia. Such small ones may also indicate that something needs to be done in this area. In my opinion, it was no big deal that the parliamentary group or the proposer proposed modifying these two articles, which would by no means affect the financial side of the police's operation, not the other thing, but the 'inato', you know, from spite. From spite, a house moved from one side of the river to the other in Sarajevo. Out of defiance. But it doesn't come from a good party, it doesn't come from a proposaler who's worth taking into account, you'll probably go through with your camera, and you'll probably vote on this well-intentioned proposal that we've presented this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u127	In the name of the government, he spoke to the word magi. Marolt, Secretary of State. Immediately after him on behalf of the proposalr, Mr Peter Wilphan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. If you allow, I would like to re-explain some further clarifications on all the statements made by the opposition Members and Members. See, once again, this substantive amendment to the Police Act, proposed by the first-signed Mr Peter Wilfan, was already a solution in the law on the duties and powers of the police, which Parliament has already addressed in its previous reference. In fact, the text of the provisions already in the previous law, which is not authentic text, is somewhat redrafted, so that there is no misinterpretation. I believe that this is right to say the authorship of this article. About these solutions. Some Members, and Mrs Potrat, have already been in the mandate of the previous government, and I do not know why you have not already adopted this amendment in the previous mandate, either in short, following an urgent procedure, as you now see, whether I do not know what kind of procedure or regular procedure. So much for how to adopt legislation. However, once again, the current government that drafted this text of the law – the law has these solutions that determine the safety of sports events and also the more effective action of the police – so these two measures are. Thus, the law on the organisation and work of the police has already been aligned in this part with both the Legislative and Legal Service and other departments in this chapter on these two measures. We oppose these partial amendments to the law, i.e. only a change in these two measures, as only a change in these two measures has added financial implications. Why? It is only for these two measures that we should then make specific forms, especially education, to train some 3,000 police officers who carry out the tasks of protecting public order and peace – that is, only for these two measures. Then upgrade computer applications, of course with additional funding, which would also add to the budget. This would be contrary to the austerity measures taken by the Government and also to the situation we are in, because the financial consequences would not be small. It is therefore reasonable to organise, once both police laws have been drawn up and adopted in the National Assembly, education, training and also computer applications for the implementation of both laws for the implementation of all ten new measures provided for in the legislation. So this will be more rational, more economical and more cost-effective spending of tax money. It is therefore necessary for these solutions to be good, reasonable and wise, as one of you Members said before. Therefore, the Government adopts this partial law, which is said to be only these minor changes, opposes. With regard to honourable Member Zanoškar, who highlighted the coordination of social dialogue with the unions, I would like to thank you for your offer, but I would like to point out that we have a good social dialogue with our police unions, i.e. with the Police Union of Slovenia and the Police Union of Slovenia, the result is also this signed agreement, and in this signed agreement, which is also being implemented, which can also be asked by representatives and leaders of both unions, is in the eighteenth point of the agreement of the commitment that you allow, I would quote: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, without social dialogue and seeking agreement with the trade unions, will not propose a law regulating the organisation and work of the police and the tasks and powers of the police in the parliamentary procedure." So, we're talking to the unions, we're coordinating, we're looking for the best possible solutions. However, given that there are parliamentary holidays at the door, the law is expected to enter the parliamentary procedure in the autumn. These solutions, however, are systemic, comprehensive and, as a result, will be the least possible cost for taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u129	Mr. Peter Wilphan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u130	Now I have actually got a good point to start this exercise of my own, my own debate. I must say that this time Mr Marolt is very correct, very curly and even appropriately speaking about the fact that we cannot speak here about the authorship of this bill. When we first filed this law a few months ago, we received very different observations, especially myself, by your Minister of the Interior, Mr Gorenak, who also called me a plagiar, compared me with counterfeiters and so on – I believe on Twitter and on my blogs, which I have to admit, I do not read. Well, first of all, the explanation. I have no idea in my dreams either or I want to tell anyone that I have drafted this bill on these police powers. This is a proposal that, as you said before, was previously under consideration, we have summarized it, together with our professional colleagues, lawyers, which we have quite a few in our parliamentary group, and with me as the first to sign it, then we have this proposal that you now have on the table. My share in preparing this was, above all, my experience from the havens of a long, over 40-year-old work in sports. Of this I have been a top athlete for more than 20 years, a top basketball player, for over 20 years I have been commenting on all the biggest basketball events, both at home and in the world, and, among other things, I have been a sports official for some time, even the Vice President of Uniona Olympia, the basketball club, certainly one of the most exposed even after the cheerleading salary in Slovenia, which will, and will still deal with this cheering issue. And during that time of my operation, I traveled all over the world. There's practically no city, no country, you could say there's almost no hall I haven't been to. Of course, I did not only monitor and observe what is happening on the floor, but also what is happening outside the floor: in the stands, in the cities where these competitions were organised, before the game and after the game, during the competition and so on How the security is taken care of, how the police react, how the fans act and so on. [[...]] So there would be no doubt that I am imputing any authority to me that we would like to receive any credit for the possible adoption of this bill. Once again: I cannot go beyond those accusations made by your minister, who, by the way, was also a member of the MP, of course, to make proposals for laws that had been in the procedure before. I have here, say, four such laws prepared by my professional colleagues. For all, he is a co-signatory or a co-signatory, and for two he is also the first to sign. All these proposals were already in the legal procedure, they were not accepted for such or other reasons, more or less known reasons, because they were probably not submitted on the right hand side, they were not genuine signatories, and then these proposals came back into the procedure. And interestingly, I have been told by older colleagues who have been in Parliament for a long time, at the time no one compared these signatories with plagiarists and counterfeiters. So much for this authorship and possible merit. Now let me go back a little bit. Why we decided to table this bill. That was months ago, and this has been said quite a bit today. Mrs Potrata mentioned one of these events, this is the one in Maribor at an international handball game, when there was a horrifying, I would say, a verbal attack on visiting handball players, in fact even for the magnification of genocide. Then immediately that event in Stožice at the football game between Olympia and Maribor, when there was a pitching of torches on the playground, when one of these burning torches only missed one of the goalkeepers of both teams when property was destroyed and so on. At that time, we decided to put forward a proposal for this law immediately, the next day or the next day. Why - because we wanted, as colleagues Kavtičnik had already said, to adopt such a law as soon as possible, to get into the procedure as soon as possible, to get it, or to get it, and to start implementing it. Then we also had a meeting with the two representatives of the Government, Mr Marolt and Mr Žaberl today, at which, as I have already mentioned in the recital, we had a very correct discussion on this matter. Your proposal was then to withdraw this bill. We said that we were ready to do this because you were then — and I will read from our record prepared by our experts. "According to the words of the representatives of the MNZ, the two proposals for laws are the draft law on the tasks and powers of the police and the draft law on the organisation and work of the police, which was tabled in the legislative procedure in May 2012. The withdrawal of the bill will therefore wait until the Government introduces both laws, which are currently in interdepartmental coordination." Then it didn't happen, these two marriages weren't filed. We then insisted on the continuation of the procedure and then our law was broken, destroyed and finally not adopted. It came even so far that, as I have already said today, I had to represent it even on the Committee on Finance under the Public Finances Act, marked by the ZUJF, and at the end of this proposal there was nothing. Then in Positive Slovenia we decided to re- table the law, following a regular procedure, and this has now happened. There is no indication that we are blocking or impeding the proposal to be tabled by the Government, of course, does not keep it here. Last but not least, even today we have not received any assurance or deadline for the Government to introduce this law, given, I believe, very difficult negotiations with trade unions, given that this is a major system-wide complex law. In fact, no one can say at this time when this proposal of yours could come to Parliament. I understand, of course, that the Government must be coordinated, I understand that you can't make a law before this, and on the other hand, we are Members in Parliament to put forward proposals for laws to discuss them, no matter what kind of problems the Government is facing. A lot of interesting things were said in the debate. I must say that I am even kind of satisfied because I think today's debate was quite correct. I would like many times to discuss this way, as well as to talk about the proposal of another group, the opposite group. As far as I understand, apart from one or two concerns, you all agree that we need such a law in Slovenia, such powers the police need to make the proposal good, that it is also substantively corrected, and that is, in fact, I must say, a pleasure. When you were talking about extra costs, if you were to pass such a law. Of course, I have full confidence in the Ministry of the Interior, that it will also be able to carry out things on organisational and cost-effective terms so that these costs will be minimal. I'm sure you've got enough people there, enough experts to know that. But, let's say, a little suggestion of how this could be arranged. On April 16th, Mr Gorenak, Minister of the Interior, was in this large meeting room, who then answered one of the questions sent, saying: "We have about 150 highly educated staff at the top of the police who will either be retired or reassigned, or some have been dismissed, because they obviously have nothing to do. Those who prove themselves will be able to stay at the top of the police force," he said, "they will be returned," those are his words, "to the foundations of the police hierarchy." I am convinced that since then, the Minister has failed to solve the problem of all these 150, and if they are such experts, they will easily take over this task, as regards the implications of these new computer services and education and new forms and so on. But it's just one call, one suggestion. When I was talking about why we needed such a marriage. See, in a few days, in the coming days this league competition will begin in Slovenia. Among other things, the football championship will begin with great derby, as we all know Maribor : Olympia. The first took place on Sunday – to be very happy and pleased, I can say no incidents – in Maribor. But it has to be said that this was a game without that real top-of-the-line competitive charge, that it was more or less a semi-friendly game. Then the international competition will begin. Slovenian clubs are playing in more and more international competitions and in more and more different sports industries, and there will be an increasing number of opportunities for this – especially since we are living in a situation right now, and we have heard that today, when people are increasingly nervous, increasingly discontented, one negative energy is actually circulating here between us. Sports events are just the kind of passions that some individuals do not even know they have in them. In the context of this, I have to get back to this European Championship 2013 – of course if we are to organise it at all, if it is not possible for the Government to abolish the championship under any new ULJF or perhaps even reduce it from 24 to 16 or 12 participants. But I believe that we will, I believe in the words of Minister Turk, who said on television that money is also provided for this famous rating. So we're going to have a European championship. This European championship will be attended by 24 representatives. The representatives of virtually all the countries of the former Yugoslav common country will also be among these. The Macedonians have already joined, I am sure that there will be Croats, Serbs, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro. We all know, or at least some of us know, what fans come from these countries, what cheer groups they are, especially when we talk about Croatia, but let's say about Serbia I could say that these are some of the even militant cheerleading groups that accompany their representatives practically on all trips and will certainly come in large numbers to Slovenia. In Macedonia, for example, a number of thousands of visitors are forecasting. Of course they'll be mostly fans, they'll be basketball fans, but of course they'll be the ones I talked about before. In my opinion, the early adoption of such a law, which we are proposing today, will be one of such clear warning, a advance notice to all of them, that they will have to behave in Slovenia according to the rules that are clear and strictly written, and that the police will also have all these powers with which this order can also work and then ensure that we have, as we all expect and want, one of the best – if not the most, certainly the most friendly, most human, the humane, the human European championship in basketball. So that's another reason why we tried to do it quickly. We failed, and now we are in this regular process. What exactly is the basic purpose of this law? The main purpose of this law is to prevent, above all, inappropriate cheering, to mention some of the most common forms of inappropriate behavior of fans at these sports events. These are inappropriate cheering, insults of players, fans of the opposite team, judges and so on, obstruction of safe and smooth games on the field, throwing various objects on the playground, coins, firecrackers, smoke bombs, torches and so on, challenging fans of the opposite team, using offensive words or slogans with national and local content and also physical accounting with fans of the opposite team. I think it is right that, of course, we adopt such a law as soon as possible, such powers that this zero tolerance for any violence, of course, of the cheerleading and, of course, of course, of another, has been introduced as soon as possible, but we are now primarily talking about fans in these sports venues in Slovenia. I am absolutely in favour of the proposal for a law going into further procedure. I also appeal to all Members and Members, despite the opinion of the members of the groups that we have already heard, to reconsider thinking about letting this law go to a second reading. If there is no good in this proposal, we can still, we have also said, we fix, we change, we add, we agree. I hope that we will also talk about this bill at another meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr Srečko Meh has the floor, followed by Mr Jožef Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u132	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! What Mr Wilfan said would need no more comment and would be a chronic proof that we can proceed with the procedure and that in this process we can reach the best possible solutions, temporary but where there is a relatively large problem at present. That's why I'm worried about the whole thing. In a way, it shows that everything in this country needs to be changed from the foundation forward, and this is often the worst solution. It is not necessary to subordinate all houses so that if something needs to be fixed in this house and if something is wrong in the area of one part of security and sports, then let us fix it. But I'm worried about that integrity, and in this country, we've already changed too much and it wouldn't be right. Our reputation, the reputation of the National Assembly, does not depend on how we dress, depending on where we are. It depends on whether we can talk. Are we looking for solutions? Are we listening? Can we then find a solution that is good for all of us? I also think that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Police Act is not even the most important moment that we should be dealing with in this country. There are far more important things that we should be talking about, discussing, looking for solutions, and not looking for. We do not have any proposal or proposal to speed up the economy, nor how we will solve the unemployment crisis, how we will solve all the problems that we have adopted by means of a fast-track financing change law, and we have done so quickly. [[...]] That is why this moment is also a good time to discuss how to arrange security, for example, at sports events. Mr Vogrin and a few of us were here when we should have said that we were talking about content and not talking about form, and we were not talking about who made the proposal. However, let me recall: none of the additions to today have been accepted by anyone else except the legal service and have been put before the coalition Members and Members after the amendments. And except for those who were admitted into the coalition. Today it has already been warned that this is not good; it is not good for the spirit in the National Assembly and not in Slovenia. I think it would be good to discuss the solutions proposed by the proposaler, Mr Wilfan, as an acquaintance, as an athlete, as a sportsman, and that today or tomorrow, with the non-acceptance of this law, however you wish, we accept our excessive responsibility for all that should not happen at any of these sports games and events. It's supposed to be sports pleasures and joy over winning and good sports moves. At the very least, I love the debate here about why you did not do so in the previous term. We are in the composition of this Parliament and this reference, and in this reference we are responsible for what we will do at this time. It has been either seven months since we were elected, five months since the government was appointed, and it would be right to solve the problems that concern us as fast as possible. It would be good if there was not much intolerance between us, nor any arrogance. When Members are asked a question, they should be respectful, and when State secretaries and ministers answer, they should be just like that. Certainly, the proposal before us today deserves further consideration, additions and opportunity. If I make it very simple. If we say that we are in July and that this is the last regular meeting, then the next regular meeting will be held, for example, in September, and it is likely that it will be in October. That is to say, if October is the first consideration, then we will not accept this year's proposal, which will be prepared by the Government for a comprehensive resolution on a regular basis. That is why I feel that these adjustments would help to solve the problem that is being pointed out by those who are also familiar with the problem of sport and intolerance in sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u133	Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, Mr. Jerko Čehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am also pleased, as the first-signed said, that today we are discussing this law, which deals with an important social issue – security in our stadiums, in our games, in our halls. I am also pleased that, even in this House, we are proving to the assembly that we have a more responsible approach to serious social issues than where Mr Wilfan is also a saint, in a municipality where even more important matters are prevented from any debate. We know that they have prevented an extraordinary session which sought to identify itself with Mr Jakič and his actions, which the Corruption Commission considers to be corrupt. I also agree that Mr Wilfan is a very suitable candidate, because he was really a top athlete, a basketball player, I enjoyed watching him. He was also the athlete who was considered the enfant of the terríble of Yugoslav basketball and Slovenian sport in his time. I take that positive, literally. I remember that he was also able to provoke fans and he also used provocations. I remember the match in Belgrade, I think that he played for the South Plastics when he turned against the Belgrade opponents and against their fans, pulled his pants down and showed the back. I'm taking it all arbitrarily. It was a different time. If someone had done such a thing after the bloody Balkan riht today, it would probably have caused strong reactions, but then Peter Wilphan was a young athlete, a temperamental enfant terrible, and it was tolerated in some way. The fact that it is necessary to take action to keep these consequences of violence in society and at sports events in mind is true. Such violence is also largely a reflection of the social crisis. We know that we have a very strong social, economic and financial crisis, which also produces very undesirable consequences. Today, when we talk about preventing violence at sports events, we who are a little older remember that decades ago were the most problematic English fans. Remember the tragedy at the stadium in the Netherlands when the ferocious British fans caused a terrible tragedy. At that time, they restricted the movement of British fans, and at the same time, I believe, it was during the pre-tacherian period when the social economic crisis was also pronounced in England. Thus, also under Margaret Thatcher’s direction, the English society got better, cleaned up that this is no longer such a problem today. It was said, "We don't need hooligans in the playgrounds, in the stadiums" – Mr Misic said so. By the way, I thought when we were discussing such a topic, that — given that it was last declared a firefighter — it would come in a fireman’s uniform to make the symbolism a little stronger. True, we must prevent hooliganism in stadiums, but of course we must prevent any hooliganism in society. Also in other areas of this inappropriate phenomenon, undesirable phenomena, social evil. From this point of view, I take this proposal even in some way as part of self-criticism or reflection within the Party of Positive Slovenia, that also the behaviour associated with the party has somehow encouraged such reactions, such a law. This law states in Article 39(c) that the police may prohibit participation in certain sports events for persons who have committed an offence at a sports event or against the law governing public gatherings. When your client had your client, I think it was a public gathering, some celebration, the son of your client's president was one of the journalists, Jake Elikan, or companion, saying, "This should be killed, this journalist." This law, if adopted today, would prohibit such an offence against this person, Mr Juret Jankovic, from participating in public events. I'm sure the police could have banned him because it's a terrible deviation that's happened. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u135	Mr Jerovšek, maybe you've gone a little crazy if you stick to the frame, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u136	He writes about public gatherings at events. I quoted a law that speaks and it was a public gathering at the time. [[...]] No, for all public gatherings. It says "...or in the commission of an offence under the law governing public assembly." I quoted very accurately, and that's what this is all about. I think that these internal criticisms through such laws are more with you, and I welcome that. For we must put an end to all areas of this irregularity, the bad conditions in society that cause such violence. We know that alcohol-related drug abuse also has consequences for sports events, and we know that we now have a trial against the Balkan drug cartel. Unfortunately, there are also certain links between the perpetrators and your client's officials, including those who now belong to them. The need for this law, the intent of this law is correct, and it must be welcomed that you have also observed and accepted it. I am aware, however, that we cannot resolve such an area in part, as the Government has also found, and that a well-prepared law must be put in place, which also solves matters more broadly. If the government told us today that it wouldn't bother her, then this marriage would be supported. I'm sure I'd back him up because his instincts are right. In particular, as I say, because I have found a certain self-criticism on the part of the Members of this Group against this event, which has something to do with their party. The law, I'm sorry, I won't support it at this stage. But I will continue to support the intent of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u137	Yes, I'll give my word to the motioner. All I'd say is that hinting at criminal acts and other illegal acts until the court finds out is inappropriate in this room. Regardless of the material immunity that protects us from the words we say. I suggest we all stick to this. Now I would like to give the floor to the motioner, Mr Wilfan. You can pick up anytime, so it doesn't matter whether it's a replica or not. After Mr. Wilfan, Mr. Marolt.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u138	In fact, I expected this adventure from my past to appear sooner or later in this Parliament. I must admit that I even expected my colleague Jerovšek to be the one to mention it. And that's what happened. But he said some things wrong, so tomorrow, Jože, I'm going to give you my autobiography, which is all very accurate, and there's one photograph, so then you're going to know exactly what was going on. On the other hand, Mr Jerovsk's other statements, I would say so. I think that was my last replica of his performance. I would use the words of Mrs. Potrate, who was at one of the meetings about two months ago on one such statement by Mr. Jerovšek, who touched her, to say something like this, I will try to quote: "Big Jerovšek, we have been for so long [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u139	Your time has run out, unfortunately. Mr. Wilphan is not listed for discussion. Finally, when the time is right, I will open the debate and Mr Wilphan will be able to apply. Otherwise, I didn't watch this game, but it's important that you don't do this to me in the National Assembly. Now it is Mr Chehovin, who is not. Then he has the word Mr Janko Weber, who is not. Then Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat, who is not. Mag. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I must say that, as this law suggested by Peter Wilfan as a great expert in the field of sports, this is rarely the case. I don't know what the problem is. They say "separation from systemic proposals." Is there a problem in the timeline? If this law is passed, then another cannot be adopted for a year — or what? I don't know these legal issues. If we adopt this novel, then we can adopt the government law in the fall. I'm afraid it's late in the fall. I am even more afraid that he will be forced to do so before Christmas because sports events will take place in January. However, if it is not accepted by Christmas after the emergency procedure, the opposition will be guilty if it does not vote in favour, but because you have a majority, so that you can vote at any time. I think it's a very important moment in this timeline that this is proposed now, and an extremely great responsibility for those who are against such a novelty of law. I don't know if he thinks only one head, but the others raise their hand or we actually vote in the National Assembly on our own conscience. I feel that since February, as Member Srečko Meh has said and has also been repeatedly told in this National Assembly that no proposal or initiative by the opposition has been adopted so far. I am increasingly inspired by what someone has said is about the kidnapping of a country and that this coalition is actually adopting everything. That's right! Let him take responsibility, too! Let it lead, manage this country so that citizens are better off, but if something bad happens, let them take full responsibility as well. Even in the case of this law – especially the police, which I think is really the responsibility of the system – I think that every individual should be very concerned that this amendment is not accepted. Nevertheless, I would ask the Secretary or Mr Marolt to tell us what the problem is if we accept this and we also adopt your law in the autumn, as this is how we take care of security, so let us take care of what was the basic purpose. The proposal has often been politicised by the opposition. Today, Mr Jerovšek once again politicised this, extended it to all possible areas, so much so that he did not mention Jankovic at the same time as usual. It seems to me that this sets an extremely poor example and deletes the meaning for which this debate is intended. Sometimes I see from all the coalition interviews that magnetograms are read very carefully. This is said to be just some of the things that the opposition has said are coming, but the other way. Well, it's nothing wrong. Probably none of us from the opposition – the professors are more inspired with these works – but we don't care who the author is. We are people of practice and who propose a better proposal We are not competing, no one will get an extra medal from one side or the other, or we have no prejudice as to who is proposing a good proposal. [[...]] It would be right to delete this law once because it is not political, it is sports, and to get a clear explanation of why it cannot be accepted before your system law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State is likely to explain and answer your question, for he has made his statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u142	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Member Stepišnik, as well as the honourable Member, Mr Meh, who has challenged me before! He raised the question why comprehensive regulation of police legislation. I must say that Mr Meh, I would now try to answer him, I do not understand why he is concerned about the comprehensive regulation of police legislation, because the comprehensive regulation of police legislation has been proposed by the previous government led by the SD, i.e. the party of Mr Meh's Member of Parliament, and has also brought comprehensive solutions to police legislation, i.e. these two measures in addition to the other ten new measures. In fact, the current government is only continuing this process of integrated police legislation solutions, i.e. systemic solutions. I would also like to point out that one of the reasons for the comprehensive regulation of police law is that the current Police Act has been amended seventeen times! That's quite a scary number, and we can say that it's also a non-systemic patch, which is also pointed out by police officers, as well. That is why it has joined the comprehensive regulation of police legislation, namely the regulation of a comprehensive solution already under the previous, other government led by the current opposition. This is one very important argument for comprehensive regulation, and this argument is also accepted by the current government and therefore continues with this project of integrated solutions. However, the second argument is also that, as I have already said, this solution brings two new measures. The new legislation brings ten new measures and implementation, i.e. only partial implementation of these two measures or comprehensively, all ten measures – costs would be practically doubled. So, education, training only for these two measures, then computer records, new regulations. Once again, we must not forget that it is necessary to educate and train some 3,000 police officers to work for new measures. So education, training; already travel costs for the journey, diaries and other costs for education and training are enormous, despite the fact that we or the Slovenian police have top experts in education and training, but still these costs arise. The other thing that matters is these computer applications. The police, however, have a very important and extensive information system, which should be upgraded especially now in order to implement these two measures, and then, in particular, once again for the other eight measures. Therefore, it is to be more systematic, rational, especially in this saving spirit. I would point out, or point out, once again, that we, as Mr Wilfan said, were expecting, or we said at this meeting that the law would be dealt with in May. We have also planned this, but it has become complicated in certain coordinations, and we are already having a social dialogue with the police unions, which has also brought this commitment to the government, and we are explicitly sticking to it. I will also point out that the current government has signed this agreement with the unions, but it has not only signed it, such as the agreements signed in the mandate of the previous government, but has never been implemented in the mandate of the former Minister of the Interior, who has signed certain agreements with the trade unions, both the government and the minister. Therefore, the unions were also untrustworthy, given that the previous government had not implemented the agreement. This agreement with the unions, and also in this part, we explicitly adhere to it and also care for implementation and implementation in practice. So I hope you understand that it is important for us to have social dialogue and we also want to pursue this social dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u143	Mr. Stepišnik, first the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u144	Thank you very much. With all due respect, Mr Secretary, I am not satisfied with the answer. And that's because I know you're extremely capable in the police department, you have a good information system and you can also partially [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u145	Mr Stepišnik, if I may only remind you, it is not whether you are satisfied with the answer or not, but in which case you were misunderstood.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u146	I'll come to the point. So you are highly qualified to continue to be educated for these two changes and to introduce this education into that system law. With regard to costs, however, no human life or serious injury will ultimately outweigh the excuse that costs would be too high.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u147	Thank you very much, but I still don't know what you were misinterpreted that the need for a replica or a justification for your replica was. And Mr. Kavticnik, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u148	Thank you very much. I was talking about the evaluation, the embezzlement, and so on. So I want to know exactly what the role of this education would be. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u149	Mr. Cavticnik, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u150	A replica of that, right on top of that, yeah. I gave a replica of the performance of Mr. Secretary, who said that education was being encouraged, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u151	You're asking him something extra. That's not a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u152	And I don't think that's exactly why he's got it in him. And I don't think it's a big deal. I don't think it's a big deal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u153	Replica means the wrong response to your previous execution.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u154	Yeah, wrong! That's it. I don't think it's encouraging. The gentleman was talking about irritation, and I don't think he's being vilified, because any investment in knowledge is just a continuation of something. That means if anyone learns anything today, they'll know it tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u155	Good. No matter what, we may learn together what a replica really means. I suggest we move on. Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Hello again! The essence of marriage is interest in safe sport and not interest in prestige, or perhaps to say that Peter Wilfan has become a star again. He has always been a star, a top athlete, even though today the word stars are understood differently by some. [[advertising from the hall]] The red star is easy, too. It's fine. The real essence of the proposed law is to ensure the safety of both participants, i.e. athletes and those who like sports, which are accompanied by sports events. I believe that it is not a problem if the applicant is a positive Slovenia – or perhaps that is the problem. On several occasions, the Secretary of State has made it clear that the Ministry is preparing a system law for activities and so on. I have a proposal because it is the first reading of the Police Act, as some of my colleagues and colleagues have discussed: if the law were adopted at first reading, we would have the opportunity to complete it at that time, to prepare a quality, as you have pointed out, respected mags. Marolt, to make things the way they want them to. Above all, what I think would be good would be a temporary reduction in the procedure, even though the law would be dealt with on a regular basis. Look, at this regular plenary session, and I think there's going to be some kind of extraordinary session, we have a lot of laws that we're considering following an emergency procedure. And what has been said many times – to prevent difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the country, to promote economic growth. I would like to point out that I am convinced that this law is about preventing or harming people who are victims of violent cheering. And it's not just material damage. What my colleague Stepišnik pointed out earlier is even more worrying are the injuries of people, rather than the deaths. And, as he pointed out, no cost can outweigh the death penalty if someone is gone. This is certainly also a difficult remedial effect for each family, let alone if it is a family that is left without a relative, an only child and so on. This is an incorrigible and incomprehensible consequence. Therefore, I would suggest that the Secretary of State would just consider, including with the coalition – tomorrow we vote – if there is only the possibility of us adopting this law in the first reading and in the second reading, with your proposals and additions and your inter-resort coordination and coordination with the unions even more qualitatively. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice, the Information Commissioner also said in her consideration of the report that she recommended that we adopt laws in the National Assembly as much as possible in accordance with the ordinary procedure. If we want to catch time – as colleagues have pointed out, now comes the season of football matches and then winter leagues, as well as regular games in other sports – this legislation would be good to adopt as soon as possible. See, example: following an emergency procedure, we will now consider the Law on Construction of Buildings, the Law on Spatial Planning, on the Infrastructure and Space Committee. There is no need for a profession, no need for inter-resort coordination, no need for anything, but we will intervene so drasticly, so difficult to correct in certain legislation that we should indeed resolve systematically through public hearings. These are certain things that I think are worth dealing with in a very regular manner. Perhaps even such proposals – and I respect the Ministry and the Government's view that it is necessary systematically – but I am sure that at first reading this law would make sense now. We opposition MPs would help the coalition! The protection of human rights, if in any way proved to be a grave violation of human rights — what I said earlier — could be rectified in this direction, wherever necessary, during this legislative process. The Constitution protects the right to assembly and association, paragraph 42, but the Constitution states that everyone has the right to peaceful assembly and that this right is permitted to be restricted by law if the security of the State or public security so requires. Therefore, respectable, I propose once again, and I would also really like to know in connection with the application – what is also of Kavtičnik’s colleague, if you have specific information, what an additional cost of education would be, how much this would encourage, and how much your assessment of the financial consequences, as mentioned, would add to the burden on taxpayers. If there is no damage due to the adoption of this law, and these amendments to your additions in the autumn month when the final law could come into force, and if there is no more fatality at such events, we have done tremendously much for the safety of sport in Slovenia. And I would ask, Mr Secretary of State, if you could give me a concrete answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u157	Thank you very much. You want to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u158	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Commissioner Kavticnik! I will tell you quite simply that if this law were to be adopted, it would only be necessary to organise special education for the implementation of these two additional measures, training for 3,000 police officers, as I have already said. Sub-legislative rules should then be adopted, so the rules on police powers for these two measures should be amended, then new forms should be drawn up. However, what is important from a cost perspective is that an existing computer application, i.e. an existing system, an existing programme for the management of relevant records should be upgraded, as we know that external operators have already worked on this programme in the past, including external operators, and this should also be upgraded. In the event that a system law is then adopted, it is necessary to reorganise education, change computer applications, amend sub-legislative regulations, so it is practically a two-time job or the cost would be double. [[...]] Instead of a one-time cost of training, education, adaptation, computer systems upgrades, there would be duplication of work – practically speaking. So a 100 % higher cost, because twice the need to organise training, education, twice the need to make new forms and twice the need to upgrade the computer system, because the police system is not a simple computer system. It's just a very demanding, complex and complex system. It really isn't just a simple record. I hope I answered with that, thank you. Only if you allow me to do so, have you asked me after a concrete assessment of the financial implications; I do not have this information so far, because the professional services have not given a concrete assessment of how much this would cost, but it is certainly a larger amount, because we know that every minimal upgrade of the computer system costs a great deal already. However, specific numbers were not provided by professional services. Thank you. However, if you wish, we can also provide you with this information, but we will once again call for them to make an assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u159	Mrs. Brunskol, would you like a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u160	Thank you very much for your answer. Why did I ask you that? In view of my proposal that perhaps in the first reading this law amendment [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u161	Colleague Brunskoletov, replica!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u162	Yes, the replica is in such a way that I would like this information to be adopted by this law at first reading, and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u163	Not additional proposals and not additional questions. It's a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u164	Yes, I'm holding on, Madam Vice President! The upgrading of the information system would not be necessary twice. Why? Because in the second and third reading, if you were to accept it at the autumn session, you would be upgrading the system with your new forms because of your proposals and also this additional one of ours, it would be a one-off cost. And that's what I was going to suggest. Probably – I think that this cost might not be as great as it would be - you probably have an annual contract, a publicly selected contractor, which is also carrying out upgrades within these regular maintenance systems of such a large information system as I am sure the police have it quality and use it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u165	Thank you very much for your additional proposal, within the time frame for the replica. Obviously, however, we are interpreting this article of the Rules of Procedure in our own way. I don't see Mr. Jozet the Great in the hall, next is Mag. Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I'll be very brief. I would argue that, given the arguments that have been made by coalition colleagues and colleagues, I can truly - such is my personal perception - only see the opposition because the proposaler is our respected colleague, Peter Wilfan, not someone in the coalition, which, therefore, as a new Member, actually grieves me. I also said several times in interviews when I was leaving the position of representative of the patient's rights that I hope that I am not too naive when I also try to achieve some perceptions in practice in this area and that the practical reasons for amending some laws will be taken into account, not the political opposition of the other bank. A respected magician. I would also say to Marolt that, as far as I know, there is no limit to the amendment of the existing laws, since it is circumscribed at number seventeen. There are also laws that have experienced a significant number of innovations, and in fact thank God that, because every novel, at least by some logic, means some improvement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Dragan Bosic. You're giving up. Mr. Branko Ficko? Mr. Jože Tanko? Now it's you, Mr. Peter Wilphan. Do you want to continue to discuss the time of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. Well, here today we have a demonstration of how we're looking for excuses so something doesn't happen if it doesn't want to be done. In the context of those changes that have been discussed, the Secretary of State spoke about this and mentioned ten other statements, but the 17 amendments – this would be the eighteenth amendment until the law was completely recast. But those other ten changes are not dealing with the area that we are discussing today. This is said to be a purely specific segment of the protection of sports events and an attempt to prevent individual incidents. Whether this means such enormous costs for education and for the establishment of records is another issue. I can hear the current government bragging about how it removes bureaucratic barriers, how it changes this and that, they constantly change organizational structures, and that's nothing to worry about if it costs anything. Even if the bill is justified, it states that organisational changes will bring with them the need for new employment, the cost of moving and everything else. Once again, I stress that it does not wish to settle this area as envisaged here. And what seems important to me is what the proposaler said, "we are ahead of a major sporting event, we are not just regulating things for our own sports audience and events, but also for those who will come to us". Remember the events regarding the Cameroonian footballer, about the incident when a young footballer was not allowed to perform because he was not a true nationality, and the reactions on the sports scene of one of the neighbouring countries. Remember what the Poles were doing or how they reacted when the fans were doing in their enthusiasm what they were, what the ban on face masking and what things they could say. For me, the fundamental question is whether we want to fix something or not. And I have a feeling that we don't want to do this because I'm afraid of some additional obligations. And this is where social dialogue comes in handy. A saving word, a social dialogue. But, excuse me, in the social dialogue, an agreement can also be reached on how the executive branch of the authorities will arrange the award for the new obligations that police officers and the competent authorities would have received in this context if this is such a major problem. As far as education is concerned. I don't know how much these measures are specifically linked to special receptions. I'm not a cop, but the kind of stuff that's written in here, it's part of what cops can handle. I remember that the prevention of domestic violence was similar when some sought excuses that it was related to costs, new obligations and I don't know what else, and after years of persuasion we came so far as to find that the police were the one who was best trained and who took the biggest step forward. I think that matters are still very important, too important, that they can be easily eliminated and that there are no problems – as I have listened to the opinions of the parliamentary groups – that everyone recognises the problem, but if the solution now proposed is how to reduce the problem, we see a hundred and one reason why we would not do it. And now I could start telling you about the injured young people climbing the fences, and we wondered who did it. One and the other. As I say, I will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Bikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u170	Your Honor! In addition to everything about security, I would like to emphasise that this is also a matter of the safety of the athletes themselves who are participants in these sports events. I haven't heard anything about this today, so I'd like to mention it as a former athlete. But I'm glad to somehow pull this together so that we all agree that this marriage is necessary, necessary, acceptable. And these arguments of yours, why you're against it, have convinced me absolutely nothing that you're not doing it just because you didn't propose it. Our southern neighbors have a good saying, which says, "It's better to stop than to heal." So I urge you to really support this law tomorrow and press "for." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u172	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. I have already said the majority in the position of the Group of Members, and I will add a few more sentences. Personally, I have no problem with the applicant. I think the proponent is real. So that he doesn't get too rusty, his rich sports and journalism career shows he's got experience. Also, those who may not like to watch sports switch to the channel where the games are being monitored, perhaps the Slovenian national team or the Union of Olympia. I'm coming from Dolenjska, and I might have this thought, because I'm rooting for another basketball club. But that doesn't play any part in this marriage. So much for a fig in a pocket by coalition MPs. We have all made it very clear that we support such solutions, but we support them systematically. We're backing them up system-wide. We support not only in the field of sport, but also in the field of other segments that touch on the law that is being drawn up. On the one hand, we also have this problem of how urgent solutions are. On the other hand, we have a law that was drawn up in December 2010, and nothing has yet happened. On this page, we also have to take it on a regular basis, even with general treatment. If it were as urgent as some of the previously appointed here have said, there would be an urgent procedure without any coordination and the matter would be resolved. I think there's not enough talk about police powers or overstatements. If we just open up a newspaper, we see – the policeman just grabbed a little wrong hand and we have a scandal of all Slovenian dimensions and then the media are only dealing for 14 days with a problem that I don't think is a problem at all. I am interested in today's debate, which is also quite opposite or diametric both by the proponents from Positive Slovenia and also by the SD. Some said that it was a tiny part of saving that only individual excesses were happening. On the other hand, there was a lot of exaggeration about how vital legislation is when we have a problem with hooliganism or Ultra hooligans in Slovenia. Here, some of you should get in line. Once again, I think the police's involvement in this law is very important. Without the police implementing this law, we can write the laws we want, but if there are no concrete solutions in practice, every letter on paper is dead. Like I said, I think the law is perfectly ready. No one will convince me that the law that the Government is preparing will solve this problem of safety at sports events or security, public order and peace in stadiums or sports halls. Exaggeration or exaggeration by the proponents, not only by the proposer, his debate today was very constructive, very positive, but some have gone a little over the edge, a little cheerleading. There was talk of death victims. No one said how many deaths there were in the area of Ultras, cheerleading or hooligans in Slovenia. I didn't get this information personally. If you have any information about these strong deaths they are in Europe, I hope that in Slovenia, if we are nothing, we have no data, I hope we will stay with them. [[...]] However, if we have some broken chairs on some local or Slovenian sports derby, no law will eradicate it. It is as if they say they will eradicate the rivalry between Olympia and Krk, between Olympia and Maribor. We're not going to root this out. So we're not gonna root out broken chairs, either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u173	Thank you very much. I'm also asking the Secretary of State if he wants a closing statement on behalf of the Government?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps I would just answer the question of Mrs POTUS, whether we want to settle this in law or not. Of course we do. This solution and the appropriate solution are in the system law that is drawn up within the Ministry of the Interior and will be dealt with, as I mentioned above, as soon as possible after the holidays. Measures will be taken to ensure adequate security at sports events and effective police action under system law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u175	Thank you very much. All the speakers reported discussed, but there is something else to discuss. I'm asking if you, Mrs. Potrata, want to discuss it, I think you're running out of time. [[...]] [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Just a minute. Anybody else want to discuss this? Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm opening time for a discussion. Sign up for the one you want to discuss. Three panellists have been reported. Mr. Peter Wilfan as the first.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u176	Just a few final thoughts, I'll save some for tomorrow to explain my voice. This debate, which we have heard here today, has convinced me even more that our proposal for a law is appropriate, that it is good and that it would be right to go to further consideration. As for the arguments that we have heard from the representative of the Ministry of the Interior, he has spoken a lot today, trying to tell us in various arguments here what all the problems would cause the adoption of this law to the Ministry, the financial, the cost and others. Nevertheless, in the end, I cannot get rid of the feeling if this proposal does not go to a second reading, this decision will not be a professional decision, but rather a more political decision. And I would like to add something to this political decision. This bill has absolutely nothing political in it. This is not a law on left, right or middle fans, about left, right or mid-destructors or hooligans, as we have called several times today, this is simply a law that speaks of those that should be removed or eliminated from sports venues, some temporarily, which I think should be permanently. So I continue to hope that, despite this debate, which leads to the difficulty of getting enough votes for the second reading, that, above all, the Members of Parliament from their position by tomorrow will reconsider or give a good thought to all that we have heard here today and finally support this proposal. Also, a word or two about the fact that no one died on these sports courses in Slovenia for once. Of course, we can be overjoyed and overjoyed that this has not yet happened. We can only hope that it will not happen in the future, but in particular that this will not happen in the meantime, when the police will not have this law or these powers, this time for which we are proposing, I must repeat it again, we have already heard that today, we are not taking responsibility for any such catastrophe. If I use the thought of my colleague who gave it to me here, "I'd rather have a dead letter on paper than a dead man on the field."
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u177	Thank you very much. You've probably noticed that in terms of time allocation, every debater has five minutes. Here you go, Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u178	Thank you. Today we have heard quite a few original interpretations of the Rules of Procedure. However, since Mr Lisec spoke if we believe that the law is so necessary, and would be tabled by an urgent procedure to remind you of Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that when the adoption of the law is necessary because of the interests of the security or defence of the State, or because of the removal of the consequences of natural disasters, or in order to prevent difficult remedial consequences for the functioning of the State, the Government may propose the adoption of the law by emergency procedure. Mr. Fox, we met before you became an MP, you were an expert associate. Your practice would suggest that you know that Members cannot be drafters of the law by emergency procedure. However, I also read this paragraph so that perhaps in the coalition, one of the Members and Members would ask what laws we are considering in this mandate following an urgent procedure, so that we are not even talking about short notice. This is a reserved procedure for exceptional cases, not just on average and for a long time. However, it will be necessary to correct the consequences that we are taking with these laws that have been tabled in this mandate. So much for the emergency procedure. With regard to the reply of the Secretary of State to my rhetorical question, however, I would say that everything he has said only strengthens the taista, as I say and as the proponents have argued. The law retains professional arguments and expert judgement, but it does not tolerate the likeness of the proposer. Since the proposer is not right, we will not adopt this law or allow it to go forward with the procedure, because we are supposed to be at once in a time of comprehensive solutions. I would like to point out that as many partial solutions as we have now adopted have never been adopted; without analysis, without a thorough assessment of the consequences of the measures. This law, however, can be claimed to have good consequences. And go and look at what little we're interfering with in the proposed paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 in the current articles, and you'll see there what individual registers must have, from DNA onward. Then we will discuss whether the application of this law will really require as much additional education as has been said. You don't have to spend a lot of words. I'm used to some things being done briefly. A recent attempt to harmonise a law with the decision of the Constitutional Court has failed. That decision and that explanation were quite short. And now I'm all excited about how a new marriage will come in the fall, and we'll see what solutions it brings. In all of this, something quite different, at least for most of the changes, will not be possible, given the decision of the Constitutional Court. But we are masters, we take the Constitutional Court into account, if we are right, the European Court of Human Rights takes into account, if we are right, or we wave with our hand. Otherwise, we write a request for a state of law to the rule of law when it comes to defending ourselves before the judicial branch of power, but we care little. I am very sorry that we cannot accept this as it was meant to be, because I think it is entirely possible to assert that it is not about any politicalisation of the sport sphere. It would be very nice if, for everything that is going on in the National Assembly about sports, we could say that it has nothing to do with politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u180	Thank you very much. But today we could say that we were somehow in a Ferple, with the exception of some individuals, in some statements we could say that we would get a yellow card. Otherwise, the matter in the National Assembly, at least at this point, was quite fair and fair. And if there's any honesty in all those who are about the good intentions of the proposed law, then I'm sure tomorrow you can let this marriage go to a different treatment. For all that may happen to us when the Ministry comes with the law, the system law, I fear that it will not come after the swift procedure. And when the process is quick and urgent, many mistakes occur, and we witness every day what mistakes occur when we adopt laws by emergency procedure. The only thing that saddens me is when you talk about good intentions, and then we go to what happened to someone when he was young, in youth, what happened to sons, or maybe to someone else who was involved in a family relationship or friendship. So that "time or something" thing is always questionable about your good intentions. I therefore suggest that we really focus on the matter that we are dealing with. If we focus today, and tomorrow, when you focus on the matter that we have discussed, then you will be able to let the law go to another treatment with a calm conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Would you like to discuss it again? We have come into a situation where I am reading the rules of procedure that I have before me, on the other hand, the professional services remind me of the parliamentary practice that has been in force so far, but this time I will allow myself to interpret the rules of procedure in my own way, as I understand it. However, the Rules of Procedure say that until the time for discussion has passed, we can continue to share time. If this decision is any different in the following cases, we will respect it. And now I'm opening up time for another debate. Just a minute. So time's running out. Here's a moment. We'll sort this out. [[...]] I'm proposing to the Technical Service that they sort things out. Mr Jerovšek, from what I have seen, expressed very clearly the desire to discuss, including Mrs Sonja's colleague. So, respected jobs, what do we do? Shall we break it off? Can we handle this without computer support because we wouldn't have interrupted the session? Obviously, we have three debaters who want to debate. Can we split the time? They cannot apply, they have made it clear that they cannot apply, but I think that Mr Jaklič and everyone else agrees that we cannot share the time. [[...]] This is so when the technique is not on our side or is smarter than ourselves. I'm sorry, we're adjourning the session in five minutes. I'm asking the technical services to take care of the situation. We'll continue at 13.54.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u182	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the adjourned session. I hope the technique works. They told me that I needed to reopen the time for discussion, so I ask you to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, if everything is all right. I'm opening time for an application. Here you go. But now we have a few more candidates, so we've got four applications. Five minutes is the time to discuss each of the four debaters. The first one begins with Mr Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u183	Thank you very much again. We are talking about an relevant and important topic, the prevention of violence at sports events. All those who have been promoting political and sporting events for decades now know that many things have happened in this area, and finally, the real war between Salvador and Honduras, I think after the football game. For this reason, as I said before, I welcome the initiation of this topic in this way too. But I volunteered again because I was surprised that colleague Wilfan took him as a critic, even though I was affirming him, he was actually doing an ad. This is what they wrote at the time – in sports to be l'enfant terrible, in fact there is nothing wrong. Secondly, if someone were in public office, in the policy of l'enfant terrible, then this would be linked to inappropriate conduct that could be socially harmful. At the time he was a young, excellent athlete, a little hung up, I would also say, he probably admits it himself, but because of his historical and time distance, it's not bad if one remembers it. Secondly, I must also replicate to the President of Parliament, who spoke completely inappropriately after my debate about what is right and what is wrong. I firmly believe that one word was not contrary to what is expected of the Member and what is the duty of the Member. For me, I know that no one will be able to tell me my privileges or anything on the basis of real data; they can tell me, but they will lie. From what I've done in my life, they can't tell me. That's why I have this privilege that I can be socially critical, that I don't have to be afraid of anyone to get something back to me. And I must say here that the President's warning that anything was wrong in my debate was completely inappropriate and inappropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u185	Thanks again for saying that. Maybe I'll start by absolutely agreeing with the "better dead letter on paper than anything else." I also absolutely believe that none of us, not Members of Parliament or Government, but probably no one else, wants even the smallest broken chair on any sports grounds, let alone talking about human sacrifices. Perhaps I would point out how this problem is acute or how many people are involved in such important legislation as the Secretary of State said earlier that when we change police legislation, we do not really know what kind of law we are talking about. I have received information that representatives of ministries, NGOs, the Ombudsman were invited to participate in the drafting of the legislation, which I think is particularly important, the Faculty of Security Sciences and both police unions. I therefore once again appeal to the Government – indeed this will be September – to adopt this comprehensive legislation. According to my information, both laws have more than 300 pages in common, so I believe that Members will give due attention to this legislation in both committees and plenary sessions. But I end up being challenged as a professional associate before. Yes, I have been in the National Assembly for several years, but I must admit that I am not as familiar with the Rules of Procedure as I am with my fellow Member, Mrs Majda Potrate. However, she did not say to the end – indeed I apologize, the Member cannot propose an urgent procedure, but if the memory does not deceive me, the Member may propose a reduced procedure. This would shorten the process, but, of course, once again, I repeat, neither the first or the general discussion helps to shorten the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Roman Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u187	Thank you for your word, Vice President. We are both in the delegation, you are the leader, and I am a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which has already adopted the Convention on Violence and Unworthy Conduct of Audience in 1985, especially in football courts. In 1992, Slovenia also ratified this and committed itself to regulating an area that is very attractive in law. In this document you will also find a dictatorship which says "that the amendments and additions to the Police Act will have no financial implications for the state budget or other public funds". That is true, but they will have a very large financial impact on the companies and clubs that organise sports events. Let me be allowed to say that as director of the largest Slovenian public sports institution, where I have served for five years, that, of course, it is something to say in general, or something to be at all these competitions in the hall or in football courts where the club, when the end of the match between Ljubljana Olympics and Maribor or when the Green Dragons and Celje Counts meet to collect the burning chairs, by 320 we were able to collect them and, of course, pay or the organizer had to pay between 12 and 40 thousand euros, just because the hooliganism is still allowed in some way, is not sanctioned. As Director of the Public Institute of Sport Ljubljana, I have always advocated solutions that are known in the world, mainly in football developed or in sports developed countries, mainly here went to football because most of these accounts are on football courses. The English model seemed one of the best, and therefore it was my desire to make such a model in Slovenia. If in England a hooligan throws a torch on the court, it is immediately sanctioned – by the way, the investigating judge is in the stadium itself, also our stadium, the stadium has room for an investigative judge, but the legislation is not to sit there and sanction the hooligans – it is sanctioned financially, and then, of course, it has a ban, says when London City plays in London, it has to appear a few hundred kilometers away at the police station, there can watch in a special space a football game and only an hour after the end of the football game is released to go back. And if you go to England and there are big games and if you see big Q, as they say, in front of police stations, it means that the fans who are being punished are in line to apply to the police station and go watch the football game on TV. And if you look closely, in three years England has removed the hooliganism from sports venues. But there is one criticism that this hooliganism has returned to the streets. That is why I would still ask, given that I have listened to the Secretary of State and I have understood that the Secretary of State supports this kind and that in their or the Government's system law it is similar or the same solution, that it might not be bad to wait until September, to at least do this discussion and all these discussions together, because it is not really an ideology here. That law is not ideological. We all want families to come with their children. That's the worst thing, what I've seen is that whole families and kids came to football games, and then they ran out of the stands in panic, because, of course, this mass started to break. Of course, the police are waiting until the last minute to get into this mess, making order. And so it would be wise to forget a little about ideology, to forget who the position is of the opposition, and to start thinking seriously and to discuss the adoption of the Bill of Amendments and Complements of the Police Act, because it gives the police more authority to allow normal fans to go to the games normally and not be afraid of getting a chair in their head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u189	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, dear colleagues! In the original debate, I forgot to touch on prevention in particular, that it is also very important that we include in the new legislation the systemic legislation envisaged to include the responsibility of sports organisations or sports event organisers and those who own the facilities where these public events are being carried out. Even though I initially thought that I would not take any further notice of the debate, I was encouraged by Mrs Potrate's debate, which often teaches us that laws and some individual article should also be read. Today, too, in her debate, she called on the government and the ruling coalition, and, of course, also Members and Members, we do not respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. And perhaps just to think – even the European Court of Human Rights is not intruding, only facing major problems, top experts say that it should also be reformed or modernised and that one of the key problems is the tendency of this court to implement its own laws, which is unacceptable for democratic countries with its own legal system. Therefore, Strasbourg case law should by no means be fully integrated into national systems. And if I refer to this court decision concerning deleted, so-called deleted, because I say they were not deleted. Experts also suggest that Slovenia should have the right to decide for itself who its legal citizens are and to have it deleted in the case of deleted [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Please, I have listened to all of you, fellow Members and Members of Parliament. I wasn't answering. I wasn't interrupting yours. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u190	Mrs Ramshak, please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u191	In the case of deleted cases, it is a local matter, since the so-called victims had the opportunity to regulate their status. And of course, there were also possible injustices. And I support that they do, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u192	Thank you very much. It was a little abuse of the rules of procedure. Mrs. Potter has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u193	Madam Vice-President, you have intervened several times today in the debate and said that the replica can be said when it is the wrong statement. I believe you've overlooked that it says, "if my discusser was misunderstood." However, I cannot deny that you have not warned Mrs Ramšak now, but I strongly protest against what she said because the law is clear, her personal position is her personal position, and what is the legal position and the law is established, but it is legally established. And if Mrs Ramshak speaks of the so-called victims and the so-called deleted ones, she also insults the sense of legal and human rights. And I'd like to ask her to apologize. Thank you, that's my procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Just give me a second to calm down. There's no replica in the time distribution. There's no replica. Mrs Potrata had a procedural proposal, so I am currently concluding this round of discussions. In view of the precedent, as they tell me, which was triggered by the fact that I have offered a new round of options for discussion, I note that time has not yet run out. We're just gonna stick to this rule to the end, I think it's right. If the Commission considers that the Rules of Procedure should be interpreted differently, it will, of course, give an additional explanation. While this is not the case, I call once again, given that time has not yet run out, on the application for a debate. First of all, I'm asking if there are any wishes for a debate. I can't see them. So we can still conclude this item on the agenda, this debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide tomorrow, 11 July 2012, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. But we're moving on to 13. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the basis of a proposal for an agreement with the State Audit Commission on the procedure for issuing public notices. The Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission for the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures have been submitted by the State Audit Commission to the Assembly in agreement on the basis of Article 64(2) of the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures. Although she would be the President of the State Audit Commission for further explanation, I think that in the resignation, Mrs Miriam Ravikar Shurk, who apologized and is not with us today. The Rules of Procedure considered the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body and prepared a proposal for a decision on consent. I give my word to a member of the mags. Ms Petavar Dobovšek for further presentation of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u195	Thank you for saying so, Madam Vice President. Once again a nice greeting to all present! At its 5th meeting, on 21 June 2012, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as its parent body, considered the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission for the revision of procurement procedures submitted to the National Assembly under Article 64(2) of the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures for consideration by the State Audit Commission for the revision of public procurement procedures. The National Assembly shall give its consent to the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission by a decision, following a prescribed procedure for the adoption of such a decision as the act of the National Assembly. With regard to this item, the Committee started at its 2nd meeting, on 4. 4. 2012 when, in conclusion, he proposed to the State Audit Commission that, on the basis of the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which, at the time of its examination of the text, formulated substantive and nomological comments, and on the basis of the conclusions of the Committee's debate, it should adopt a new text of the Rules of Procedure and send it back in agreement with the National Assembly, as set out in the report of the Committee dated 5. 4. 2012. New text of the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission of 30. 5. 2012 having regard to the comments of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 21. 3. 2012 was submitted to the National Assembly for its approval on 31. 5. 2012. Day 7. 6. We have also received an opinion from the Committee on the Legal and Legislative Service, which, in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and in the legislative and regulatory context, has no comments on the text of the Rules of Procedure this time. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. The members and members of the Committee did not discuss the content of the Rules of Procedure, but in conclusion of the discussion, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy unanimously adopted a decision which allowed the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy to take the decision to agree to the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission to revise the procedures for the award of public contracts of 30. 5. 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u196	Thank you very much. We have only one wish to explain the views of the parliamentary groups, namely, the position of the Polish Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u197	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! In the light of the revised rules of procedure and since there have been no comments by the Legislative and Legal Service, the Slovenian Democratic Party considers that the Rules of Procedure are correct and will therefore be unanimously supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u198	Thank you very much. This was also the only and final position of the Group of Members. We're done with this work. The draft decision on consent to the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission will be decided in accordance with the time-frame of the meeting tomorrow, 11 July, in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate this agenda item as well as the 5th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. I would like to inform the audience and everyone who is probably listening to us or watching us through the media that Mr Giorgio Napolitano will address us at 5 p.m. by the President of the Republic of Italy. Well, politely invited! Thank you very much.
