ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I inform you that I am delaying the session for half an hour, i.e. 10.30 a.m., due to the anticipated submission of the amendments that are still in preparation. We'll pick it up at 10:30. I apologize on behalf of the drafters of the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u2	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue the 6th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Today's meetings cannot be attended by the following colleagues: mag. Melita Župevc, Tina Komel, Jakob Presječnik from 12 o'clock on, only Bevk from 15 o'clock on, Matevž Frangež from 15 o'clock on and Alojz Potočnik. We move on to the 3rd A-point of the day – Proposal for a law on the Republic of Slovenia's measures to safeguard the stability of banks, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr. Janez Šuštersič, Minister of Finance. Procedurally, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u3	Thank you for your word, President. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I propose that we postpone consideration and vote on the amendments to the Proposal for a Law on the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks on Tuesday, because today the meeting has already been suspended for half an hour because you have announced that amendments are being prepared. We still don't have those amendments. Yesterday, the mother’s working body dealt with this law and also received amendments to the table. The considerations of the Legal and Legislative Service are extremely serious. This law, which is not in line with the Banks Act, is not in line with the Company Act, the Public Finance Act, the Bond Act, in short, is a law that is completely outside the legal system of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, because of these serious concerns and warnings from the legal profession, we believe that it would be appropriate to postpone the debate and decision to Tuesday. But it's another very important reason. We decide and are supposed to decide today on banks and then on Slovenian State Holding. It would be right if, in making such decisions, when a parallel state is created, we, too, are the President of the Government. On Tuesday, the President of the Government will be in Slovenia, at least he has been announced to answer the parliamentary questions. We therefore further substantiate our procedural proposal to postpone the debate and decision on this law to banks on Tuesday, when the President of the Government may also be present in Parliament. We would also like to ask the President of the Government why he believes that we can adopt laws in the National Assembly that are contrary to the Constitution, which are contrary to the law in force, and where, in fact, this leads us as a country, as a democratic country, for which the procedure is the greatest law and respect for the law and the Constitution, the only defender of democracy. Without the presence of the President of the Government, I think it is impossible and incorrect to hold a debate in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u4	I will put your procedural proposal to the vote. Anyone want a word on behalf of the Group of Members? [[No, no, ……]] I am putting Mr Jank Weber's proposal to postpone the consideration of the law on Tuesday to the vote. Please check the voting devices. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 43. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 43.]] The procedural proposal has not been adopted. We continue with the presentation. Procedurally, Mr. Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u5	Question, Madam President! Given that the meeting should begin at 10 a.m. It was delayed for half an hour because we didn't get the amendment on the bench. After half an hour, we still don't have any amendments. I don't think the conditions are met so that we can address this item on the agenda. I suggest we move until the Members and Members have the amendments on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u6	Look, of course, we won't be able to start or discuss the amendments before you get them on the table. If you don't get them, I'll stop the session and we'll continue. I give the floor to Dr. Janez Šušteršič, Minister of Finance. We are still talking about a complementary explanation of the bill. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u7	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I suggest you still order a 10-minute break to get the materials on the table. This would also be right for all those who did not have the opportunity to look, and then we can move forward with the presentation of views, debates and so on, so much so that we can see the contents.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u8	Look, this is actually the same proposal. Here you go, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u9	Procedurally. Look, President, you're really proving that you have very different vats. Now you won't be able to escape once and for all to guard your left, once on your right. But the fact is, the basic condition is not met. They're not ready for things to be taken seriously. We do not agree with this pressure that during this time the amendments are being prepared, the Minister will debate and debate, and then we will have only 10 seconds of time again to see these amendments. Not being able to print in the entire National Assembly because something's not working again. In short, there are simply no conditions for normal work in the National Assembly. We should by ourselves stop the session and find out what's really wrong. Not that we are voting on this, but we see who is right and who is wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u10	Thank you. Mr. Frangez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u11	Not only are the amendments not on the table, Mr President, but they say 30 amendments have been tabled on the law, which has just over 30 articles. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are deciding on the most important laws of this mandate. A few minutes before we know what our views are, we do not know what the Government has prepared as the final concept of this law. And not only, my dears, do I imagine that I am relatively well acquainted with this matter between us, but I guarantee you that the law is also technically extremely demanding. The only correct proposal, if we want to take good decisions in the National Assembly, is to suspend today's meeting and continue on Tuesday, so that we all have the opportunity to study the amendments we are going to receive on the table today in a qualitative manner. I'm saying to myself that I'm not smart enough to make smart decisions that will cut the country's credit crunch in this way. And, Mr President, I call on you and the ruling coalition to reason. To your senses! Because otherwise, today you will show once again that you will amputate democracy. The procedure is the mother of this democracy. And if the procedure does not allow us a qualitative assessment of issues, quality judgements by dilemma, then we do not need such a democracy, and this will be caused by you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u12	Look, here's what I'm gonna do. First, we will listen to the minister who will present an additional explanation for the bill [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] I've heard that before. Then we will listen to the Committee's report, and if you get an amendment within this time frame, I will convene a consultation of the leaders of the parliamentary groups and we will agree on how long it takes to study these amendments. To present the Government's explanation [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Look, I can tell you again in peace. We'll listen to the Minister, then we'll listen to the committee report. If there is not enough time to study the amendments, if you consider that you do not have enough time, I will convene a consultation of the leaders of the groups of Members and we will agree on how long it takes to begin the consideration of the amendments. The rules of procedure do not allow the handling of amendments to commence until the amendments are on the table. Procedurally. First Mr. Weber, then Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u13	Thank you once again for your word on the procedural proposal, Mr President. Look, at 10:00 you yourself found that the amendments weren't ready yet, and you ordered a half break. At least stay consistent with yourself. We'll be in the hall in half an hour. There's still no amendments. How can you act in half an hour differently than you did at the beginning of the session? Procedurally, Mr President, I suggest that you remain at least consistent with yourself, that you do not change decisions in five minutes so, in five minutes otherwise, because the National Assembly cannot actually do so. And once again, procedurally, I suggest that you find out just as you did at the beginning of the National Assembly meeting, we have no amendments and we interrupt the session in half an hour to get the amendments to the table. At least stay with yourself in agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u14	I'm calling for a consultation of the leaders of the parliamentary groups. I'll meet you at 217 in five minutes. I'm adjourning the session. Five minutes from now, the leaders of the parliamentary groups in room 217 will be advised to make a deal. The meeting will resume at 11.15 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u15	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The conversation is always useful, and so is this consultation of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, I think it has calmed the spirits a little bit. We agreed to take an hour to look at the amendments to the Proposal for a Law on the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to remedy the bank. At 12.15 I will meet again with the leaders of the parliamentary groups and we will jointly assess how to proceed. We are expected to continue the meeting at 12.30 p.m., or I can just say that I am interrupting and will continue it at 12.30 p.m. And a brief explanation. These amendments, as you will see, are mostly editorial in nature. It's not about amendments that would require I don't know how in-depth studies or what you'd need all weekend to study them, but it's about editorial amendments that primarily allow amendments to be tabled at third reading. Today, there will be a substantive debate on the law, and amendments for the third hearing will also be available by Tuesday. I don't think if we talked before the meeting like this, there would be a complication. At 12.15, the meeting will be held at 12.30 p.m. in room 217.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u16	Colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the adjourned session. At 12.15, we held a consultation with the leaders of the parliamentary groups. We have found that today's complication was largely due to the communication noise between us. As much as it's in my responsibility, I apologize if I've been under-informed about any of this. We have found that these are amendments which are mostly technical, editorial in nature and allow amendments to be tabled and adopted at the third reading. So I can say that we have an agreement at least with the leader of the Social Democrats' Group that the procedure, as we have set it, is now fine. We continue with item 3a of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. I give the floor to Minister Šuštersič for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u17	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to briefly present the logic of this law, the reasons for it. This is a very important law that solves or provides a basis for resolving a very important economic issue, a question of bad banking claims or poor banking assets. What the Government is proposing is that we are solving this problem by establishing a special company for the management of bank claims and empowering this company to resolve these problems. The dominant model envisaged by law is the transfer of bad claims from banks to this society. In this way, we want to achieve two objectives, on the one hand, the cleared balance sheets, so that banks can start lending to the economy, so that they can no longer squeeze the economy to solve problems in their own balance sheets, and on the other hand, we get a creditor to companies that can, in a more friendly manner, solve the problems of these claims, and also by recovering this asset by also recovering collateral from these claims, reimburse part of the costs of these bank claims resolution operations. The law also allows for a different way of solving and allows for the establishment of dedicated companies within banks. Why did we let that happen? Since the law provides that we do not predetermine in advance, by adopting a law definitively likely on Tuesday, we do not determine in advance which banks will be included in this rescue programme, but only by law do we give the power to proposers and give the criteria for this. This is said to involve a bank in the resolution of bad bank claims through this company; Banka Slovenije will be able to do so as part of its regulatory findings – it can be a bank itself or this company. The law then provides for criteria on the basis of which it then decides whether the bank is entitled to be included in this resolution system. The key criteria are three: the importance of the bank for the stability of the financial system, the extent of the problem of poor claims in a specific bank and the need to ensure capital adequacy or the size of the capital adequacy problem of a particular bank. The Bank, which will be included in this company's programme, is said to have to prepare a business strategy in the bailout programme. At least two will have to be clear from this business strategy. How the bank will operate in the future is to say what, if I say so, the economy will have from solving this bank's problem through this company. Secondly, it will also be clear from this business strategy to what extent the costs of this resolution will be borne by the banks themselves or their owners, in particular in the part where the banks have or will have private owners. What remains to be said in the introduction is the assessment of the costs of resolving bad bank claims. The main mechanism will be such that claims from banks will be transferred to this company by the company in return for these claims, issuing the bonds that these banks will pay with these claims. For these bonds will be guaranteed by the Republic of Slovenia, the upper limit of these guarantees, which the law allows, is €4 billion. This figure is derived from estimates of the extent of the poor claims you know. However, something has to be said about this: it is likely that claims will be transferred with a certain discount, which is impossible to assess in advance, because it will not be passed on by the value at which these claims are in the bank books today, but by their estimated real economic value, which is probably much lower. So, there's going to be a public debt. This public debt, at the maximum of these 4 billion, will then be repaid by the cashing of insurance, by the cashing of claims and also by the disposal of state shares in banks. This could result at the time of the transfer of additional weaknesses in banks, as some assets may be overvalued today. In this part, additional recapitalisation will have to be ensured, and the Fund has the power to do so, it is said, by this company for the management of bank claims. Here we assess the maximum possible value of these recapitalisations from half to one billion euros. The Government considers that the adoption of this law is necessary so that these procedures can be initiated so that the company can be established. If we do not adopt this law, we cannot begin to resolve this problem virtually at this time of discussion until the adoption of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u18	Thank you, Minister. The draft law has been considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as its parent labour, and I now give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee of Mags. Mr Shirtz to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, you are most welcome! At its 31st urgent meeting, on 27 September 2012, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks as a work force. The law was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government, proposing that the law submitted be examined and adopted in an urgent manner. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view. The Service made written comments on almost all the articles. She also commented on the definition of the purpose of the law and on the definition of basic concepts in the law. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service also noted the derogations from systemic solutions, as well as the fact that the law was unclear and inconsistent and warned that language improvements would be needed. The Committee was informed of the following material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the initiative and comments of the Union of State Authorities of Slovenia, the comments of the Commission on the prevention of corruption, the letters of the Administrative Court with comments, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Banka Slovenije, Banka Slovenije and Law and Legal Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory explanation of the articles, the Minister of Finance said, inter alia, that the law is a good basis for solving the problem of bad bank claims. In Slovenia, through careful checks and also through Banka Slovenije analyses, the dimensions of the problem of poor banking claims in the banking system were gradually identified, which adversely affects the lending of the economy. This is a serious problem that needs to be solved immediately. The Governor of Banka Slovenije initially made general comments on a proposal for a law, which he believes should be further worked on and improved and not rushed. He pointed out that the proposal was contrary to some of the laws already adopted and also pointed out the possibility of constitutional disputes. He said it was a major intervention in the banks and expressed concerns about the concept of the bill. The President of the Association of Banks of Slovenia stressed that it should not be generalised and that the whole banking system in Slovenia is not a problem, but he pointed out in particular to banks that are state-owned. He also felt that trust was a key issue and that false communication could reduce that trust. He also warned of non-compliance with the Banking Act. In the debate, the discussers, mainly from opposition groups, pointed out that the bill was contrary to certain laws, including the Constitution, and that it did not take due account of the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. In particular, they stressed that the bill was too fast and suggested that only general discussion should take place at the meeting. They said that changes are very big and that any derogation from existing laws can pose a threat. They also expressed disagreement with the very concept of the bill and wanted to know that recapitalisation would be a cheaper solution. On the contrary, Members of the coalition groups felt that the time had been sufficient since the working group, which worked on the bill and on various possible solutions, was working over the summer, and in which members of the opposition were also members. Time is not great and action is urgent primarily due to the Slovenian economy. They also said that in Slovenia currently the average capital adequacy of banks is below the EU average, which is poor. Without the rehabilitation of the banks, there will be no solution to the crisis. At the end of the discussion, the Secretary of State explained in detail the issues and dilemmas raised by the debate. Before the vote, members of the positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats announced obstruction and obstructed the meeting. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the following amendments to Articles 6, 7, 12, 14 and 33. in accordance with Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments on 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] new Articles 8a, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32a and 32b, and Articles 34 and 35 of the Act, also Article 18. In accordance with Article 28 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the draft law and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, a word of the amended law has been prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended draft law is also an integral part of this report. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u20	Thank you. The list of articles that have been amended could also be presented in a simpler way. Good. Thank you very much. Let's move on. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. Mag. Shircelj will remain at the speaker's desk and present the views of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u21	Thank you so much for saying that, President. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support such a solution to the resolution of bad claims in banks. There's more than one reason. The first of these reasons is that the analysis of the actual banking situation has shown that bad claims weaken the credit activity of banks and thus weaken the economic activity of companies. At one of the previous meetings of the National Assembly, the National Assembly was informed of the level of poor claims when the Governor of Banka Slovenije gave a more detailed analysis of the banking system and in particular pointed out the problems of those banks that are state-owned. In other words, this means that all banks do not have the same problems and do not have the same problems. Unfortunately, those banks that are state-owned are in the worst condition. In many other countries, they have found a similar or similar way to resolve bad claims. In this way, certain advantages and certain weaknesses are known. The advantages of this law are, in particular, that the removal of bad claims from the balance sheet or balance sheet, when it comes to consolidated balances, in fact means that the bank is in some way free of these bad claims, and can actually use fresh money to credit rather than to remedy bad claims. The Bank will receive country-guaranteed bonds that can also be used for certain insurance. The risk assets of banks will be reduced and a clear business policy will be given to banks, they will be able to lead a clear business policy and they will be able to lead a clear business strategy. It is also possible through a special company that bad claims from several banks will be transferred to a special company, especially because it is known that we have very many so-called syndicated loans in Slovenia. Finally, the transfer of these bad claims will allow these claims to be transferred in a transparent manner, and on this basis it will also be possible to establish liability for individual bad claims arising from the given bad loans. Responsibility under this law is possible and I think the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia will also be enabled. This solution is one of the possible solutions and must also take into account the combination of other solutions, namely, the rehabilitation of state banks or parastatal banks cannot be implemented without additional recapitalisation in individual cases. The law provides for this. And the rehabilitation of banks cannot be carried out without different and more responsible bank management and without different bank management. This is about three trials. It is a process of transferring bad claims to a new society. It is possible to recapitalise if so required in terms of capital adequacy itself, and this must be followed by a different, responsible management and management of banks. The Slovenian Democratic Party believes that this set of solutions will give banks capital power and will prepare them to follow the economy and to lend them accordingly. This will be one element with which Slovenia will emerge from the crisis it is currently in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u22	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matvež Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u23	Ladies and gentlemen! Over indebtedness of the Slovenian economy is a key problem for Slovenia. Social Democrats have been warning this all along. It is closely related to this problem of credit crunch and the problem of bad claims accumulated in some Slovenian banks. It is essential that we face this problem as a country, because without a smart solution to this problem it will not be possible to prolong the economy and, consequently, to initiate credit activities and thus to grow economic growth. We are aware of this and we are very clear on this whole mandate. But the fact is, not only do we need quick solutions, we need smart solutions in particular. There will be no hurry on these issues if we choose the wrong model based on the specifics of the Slovenian situation to reduce the possibility that our goals will be achieved by proper resolution of the banking system. There are several models in the world. The government has very clearly defined itself as one model, even though we are aware that the law also allows for different solutions. One model is the purchase of bad claims. This model is considered to be 10 times more expensive than the bank recapitalisation model. The capital adequacy of the banks is that 100 million euro of recapitalisation outweighs the same effect as a billion euro buying-in of bad claims. More. It is clear that due to the problem of assessing investment in the purchase of bad investments, banks also have a key problem with the technical problem that the issue of evaluation opens up a wide range of possible damage to both the countries and the money of taxpayers and a wide range of moral gambling, as is shown by the many experiences of countries that have already implemented such a model. But that's not all. Technical enforcement is a major problem, as the procedures required by the buy-in and transfer of claims are also technically complex, may be long-term and therefore may be less effective. The country has different solutions. With yesterday's behaviour on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, we wanted to open a debate on different models, to qualitatively assess which concept is most appropriate for Slovenian specifications. On the proposal of the law before us today, we have heard the strong comments of the European Central Bank, the Bank of Slovenia, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia and, last but not least, the legislative and legal services in the largest part. In doing so, I should like to recall the words of the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of this Parliament that the amendments tabled yesterday on the working body, and we can say the same about the amendments tabled for the second reading today, remove some minor nomotechnic comments, not most of our initial key systemic comments. The concept of the law establishes a parallel legal system, which will apply to the company for the management of bank claims and thus derogate from the system regime as established in the Banking Act, the Company Act, partly the Penal Code, the Bond Code and so on. That is why we want to take more time to discuss the law more carefully. Of course, the concept itself, which will largely be subject to the absolute will of the government, which will also have a decisive impact on the banking management and claim company, brings new concerns, especially the fact that the concept largely excludes the central bank from the decision-making of the measures envisaged by this law. We will participate in the debate on the amendments. We fear, however, that the debate on the amendments does not allow debate on what we would like to discuss today. That's the optimal decision. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] We follow the example of countries that have accumulated a large volume of public debt, choosing cheaper and more effective solutions to remedy our banking system.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u24	Mr Bojan Starman, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u25	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! Members of the Civil War will be very pleased to support this proposal for a solution that is set before us, and I hope that we will finally accept it. It is high time we did something in the process of rehabilitating banks or the bad claims of our banks. This finally closes one vein where the taxpayer's money runs out into special accounts. I have said many times that we have three large segments where we have wasted needlessly taxpayer money in the last ten or more years. One of these is the banking system. Approximately ten billion are inexplicable, senseless outflows of money and vanishing. However, it will also have to be returned to European banks. Another such segment is public procurement, where, according to my assessment, we overpay about 20% of all these services, which we provide again because of different connections and because of various special arrangements, if I mention only overpayments of motorways and all these things. Approximately a billion euros a year, ten billion in the last ten years. The next category, which is still under consideration today and we have addressed it, and I hope that this new Slovenian State Holding Act will make substantial and radical changes in the management of state property. Here in these monopolistic companies, state-owned companies would be able to generate at least 10% per profit capital. This means a billion euros that we haven't seen much in the last ten years. If I add two more categories to this, we probably have about one billion euro in the grey economy. And there's probably something else going on around here. If we continue this path and quickly close the places where money flows away or repairs where there is more to be created, then I can say that we can quickly come out of the crisis and that we are rich and can live peacefully forward. As long as we allow this situation to continue, however, we will only be able to moan and shrink for so long. I forgot to mention another five billion, which is too much spent in the state budget. This has been reduced by the Public Finance Balance Act. We're on the right track. And I would be very happy if we could find a common language to support these laws, trust those who will carry them out. I am aware that the amendment of the legislation itself does not bring absolutely nothing, that it is very much dependent on how we will implement it. However, once we banish all these hunters, all these various corruptions, all kinds of special things, to really act and act responsibly and honestly with this taxpayer's money, then it will be enough for everyone. If I can come up with specific banking issues. No one will guarantee me and tell me that the granting of these loans was professional. I very much resent Banka Slovenije that in all these years of this nonsense has not been examined very professionally and inspections in banks have found that there are huge nonsensees, it is said, everything is visible, only the essence is not visible. If an entity, a bank gives credit to an undertaking that does not have an economic calculation of how it will return it, from which it will return it, it can return it from the profits it will generate by doing business where the money is invested. It is quite clear, for example, that one Mercury and the banks know each other, even if the loans have been distributed, that they can't pay back 400 million, but that they can't pay back 400 million in three years, as has been said. No one can give this credit unless he's completely stupid or he has very bad and bad intentions. There are still a number of such cases, so it is very unfortunate and I also condemn Banka Slovenije that no one has acted in these cases. Here we go, this needs to be stressed, for state banks, for our property and for managing it. It is foolish and unfortunate that the country has never looked at itself and here I would also be very critical of these supervisory councils in state-owned enterprises and that no one has done their job. We have also done foolishly because we have forbidden members of the Supervisory Boards to be secretaries in individual ministries. The whole thing is because we're hiding from the truth, I hope it's different now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Starman. Mr Roman Žveglič, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u27	Good afternoon, everyone! In addition to the many bad banks we already have, we are establishing another, this time in order to save the former. The main criticism of this bill is that it lacks and simply lacks information on the procedures to be followed by the bank's claim management company. In the Slovenian People's Party, we understand that some wish that all things are precisely defined and procedures are written, but today we are adopting a legislative framework to solve the greatest problem currently in us, the bad situation in the banking system. Our biggest problem, however, is the apparent lack of mutual trust, for in fact the opposition in our great sadness stems from the fact that we are all in a coalition of malicious bastards and that we are writing a law in order to take advantage of one way or another. I believe that in developed countries where such procedures have already been carried out, they did not stem from such a perspective, but rather from how to overcome the crisis in the country. We have a conflict of concepts in our banks in order to remedy the situation. Here are the Bank of Slovenia and the opposition, who are thinking in order to carry out rehabilitation within banks, so it is simplified to say that every few months they would spend some 100 million in banks, and to save themselves. But we've done this before, haven't we? We are therefore convinced in the Slovenian People's Party that such a solution through internal rehabilitation does not solve the problem. The bank's poor claims are no longer controlled. Every new euro they acquire is not directed towards lending, but rather to creating new weaknesses, and we get a vicious circle, which is the result of a credit crunch. This leaves us with a second option, the solution proposed by the coalition, which speaks of the transfer of bad claims to a particular society and the unloading of banks of this burden, of course, under special conditions and strictly certain obligations. We thus achieve that the new administrations of these banks, i.e. those who have nothing to do with bad business in the past, are burdened with work in the area of rehabilitation, because today Slovenia needs operational banks dealing with credit risks to new borrowers rather than the problems of its financial debtors. This bill also provides for the possibility of direct financial recapitalisation by the State, which is also proposed by the opposition, and also provides for a certain amount of funding for this purpose, but this will not be the only option. And there's a difference. Banka Slovenije points out that the real problem is not in banks, but in Slovenian companies that are supposed to be over-indebted and credited. With the opinion of the Chief Banking Supervisor, which has not applied any concrete and sharper measure to which legislation allows it in recent years, we cannot fully agree in the Slovenian People's Party. It is likely that banks are doing little to deal with these companies, giving little attention to their business, their potential, they are under-examined at risk. Probably because they're dealing with recovery and write-offs from the past. As a result, a number of companies do not receive funds for business, investment and employment as a result. And to the end. If we reject this law and allow the banks to recover themselves with state money, which is also proposed by opponents of this law, it would make it very difficult to seek the responsibility of individuals for poor or reckless management of the funds of these banks in the past. According to the Slovenian People's Party, this is one of the key priorities and cannot be expected to be done by the banks themselves. We will support the law in the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u29	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The proposal for a law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of the banks ahead of us sets up a special company to manage the fund to which bad claims from banks will be transferred in exchange for sovereign bonds. These are for 6 billion euros. This is an amount that is virtually unimaginable, such as the fact that bankers and supervisory authorities have allowed bad claims to escalate to unacceptable amounts. Since this is almost comparable to the amount of revenue in the budget, it was finally necessary to cut the Gordy knot and stop the bad business of Slovenian banks by preparing an appropriate legal solution. To this end, a special working group was established in July 2012 consisting of members of the coalition and opposition and experts seconded by parliamentary parties. Representatives of Banka Slovenije participated in only two coordination meetings and also provided expert material from this area. After a thorough discussion, the coalition partners agreed that the resolution of bad claims in banks would run outside the banking system into a special, independent state institution for this purpose, that is to the bank's debt management company and in line with the bank's stability. The current situation has shown that saving bad investments within banks alone is not rational. If banks and at the same time Banka Slovenije had done this in recent years, they would not have had the problem of poor investment at the moment. So there are only two real solutions to this problem: one is a solution with an active debt, and the other with external help, which some are drowning in with incomprehensible and irrational excuses. If we already have to resolve bad investments by means of taxpayers, it would be fair and politically appropriate to save bad investments outside banks, in order to do so, to the appropriate state institution. Only two parties reject such a solution without proper justification. One of them is likely to reject this because, in the past term, she had scissors and linen in her hands, but she did not want to do it, or perhaps she could not solve it in a different way than with recapitalisation. However, the other party is a little more difficult to understand why it does not want to actively participate in such an important issue as bank resolution and the economy. We would expect much more positive and well-intentioned political will for the well-being of the country. The Bank Claims Management Company and the Bank Stability Fund are designed according to the German model, where German banks solve entirely different causes of weakening, partly internal causes, especially the debt crisis in Greece, Spain and the like. In addition to the global financial crisis, we are dominated by domestic stories, which are reflected in the irresponsible lending of mainly Lombard loans to various financial holding companies and businesses, mainly due to the privatisation of these companies, without proper control over the use of allocated funds. This has led to the depletion of businesses due to the personal benefit of the elite. The consequences are reflected in outdated and non-competitive production, the non-payment of suppliers and employees, not least in insolvency, forced settlement and bankruptcy, including the construction of financial pyramids, the overestimated value of investment buildings, apartments and so on. These examples show that the responsibility for poor investments lies primarily with those responsible in banks and bank owners, which is also in the country. In order to avoid the continuation of the contested business practice, this new State institution must be responsible for the detailed revision of all credit contracts maintained by banks as impairments, on the one hand, and for the management of poor investments, on the other. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the law brings better solutions than merely recapitalisation of banks, so we will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat and the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, Minister and Secretary of State! The global society and, in particular, the state of Slovenia are in a financial debt crisis and consequently the economic crisis is due to a lack or a lack of respect for values. This means that the key people in the political, financial and economic sphere who were entrusted with great responsibilities in their conduct, in the management of trustable property and processes did not take into account generally known human values. Greed was the one who plunged mankind into a crisis from which we simply cannot find a way out. Surely solutions are not simple and it is likely to take some time to come out of the crisis. In doing so, however, a large number of citizens are suffering, who are at least not guilty of the situation in the country and are completely powerless. When at least a large part of humanity can expect a stable political, economic and social environment, it is a question that has a utopian character and is also asked in Slovenia. What are the objectives of the law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks? I cite the five most important objectives. One. Disposal of bad claims from banks, thus reducing doubts about the balance sheets of credit institutions, will reduce exposures in banks to non-repayable creditors. The consequences will be higher credit ratings for the bank and easier access to funding sources. Second target. Recapitalisation of credit institutions, which is a condition for the start of a new credit cycle. Third. Prepare restructuring plans for banks that will enable long-term operations without State aid. Four. It's flexible to restructure corporate debt to banks. Goal five. Consolidating the banking system by combining, connecting and acquiring, which is essential for increasing efficiency and facilitating access to capital requirements. Today we are discussing the establishment of a so-called bad bank, which represents an extremely important systemic decision for the future of Slovenia, because with a bad bank, the country will be able, inter alia, to issue bonds with a state guarantee of up to EUR 4 billion. Here I express the key expectation of the New Slovenia Group, and this is that the bad bank will be managed by the most competent Slovenian cadre. Even so, we do not mind if a well - known foreign manager or financial expert sits on the board of directors. In all the errors of the management of certain state-owned business entities, I stress, in state-owned property, we often have the question of whether we have enough competent people at home, people who are decorated with business ethics, managers who could face difficult problems of governance of state property that have not put under the hands of AUKN the expected financial effects for the better welfare of citizens. I would like to highlight three more conclusions or recommendations from the New Slovenia Group and members of the New Slovenia Committee of Experts, which also includes experts with international experience in the most prominent global financial institutions. First time. The Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to ensure the stability of banks is good. Green light was also given by the European Central Bank, a public document signed by the President of the ECB Draghi, and the ECB's comments were taken into account by amendments. Another time. Special attention should be paid to the management of the weak bank. This must be professional in the broadest sense of the word. The managers of the bad bank should give an annual report on their assets called Financial Disclosure. Third time. The wages of the managers of the bad bank should depend largely on the success of the business, i.e. on the speed and efficiency of solving problems. Moderate wages, basic salaries and significant bonuses for the success or efficiency of a bad bank’s business or mission. New Slovenia has actively participated in the drafting of the bill, and I thank all members of this group for their efforts. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I announce my support for the bill, coalition and possibly government amendments, and I call on all colleagues and colleagues to make the best possible efforts together. Mutual discredit does not lead to good solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u32	In addition, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u33	Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, Minister Gorenak announced that someone had kidnapped our country. In the last two or three days, that is exactly what we find. Apparently, someone has taken our country and is working with it like he doesn't like it at all, like he doesn't care about it, like he's allowed everything. It is no longer a legal norm. In this National Assembly, you take decisions that the Legislative and Legal Service tells you are contrary to the law. That means illegal. Last week, Mr Spilimbergo, Head of the AMF Mission, International Monetary Fund, visited Slovenia, met with members of the Finance Committee and told us what he estimated three key things that Slovenia is today in a very poor condition. First, a pension reform that has not yet been adopted. Why, we all know. Referendum, four against. Raise minimum wage in 2010. And thirdly, excessive credit to the economy in the past. When? 2006, 2007. Today, dear colleagues, we are solving the problems of excessive lending, whether you admit it or not. This is one of the main reasons for the crisis as deep as we have it, whether you admit it or not. And all of this came to us in 2006 and 2007, whether you admit it or not. The full mouth is how successful the government was in the period 2004 to 2008. We're saving your success today, and we're paying for it for another ten, 15 years. These are facts and sad truths. Yesterday, on the Committee on Finance, Mr Arhar of the Association of Banks warned us not to talk about the entire banking system, but only about our domestic, state banks, if you will. He also warned us that we should be very careful about our statements when we talk about the problems in our banks, because this creates panic among the savers, and this panic is not necessary. He invited us to take bank rescue seriously and responsibly, to deal with it, and we do not accept solutions that are not premeditated. Take another day for serious consideration and review of the law, was his proposal. The Governor, Mr Kranjec, has also asked us to take some more time for a serious review of the law and, above all, to consider all open matters. And there aren't many. I hear you've prepared six or seven versions of the law, we've only seen the first and the last. Yesterday, on the Committee on Finance, you distributed the amendments to us, so to speak, to every article of the law. The Bank of Slovenia has also said that the proposed amendments do not solve the dilemmas which are open and which they have warned about. And these are not negligible things. The value of the poor claims to be transferred, by what criteria, who will decide which claims will be transferred under the auspices of a new so-called bad bank and more. Members, however, are not worthy to give us time to discuss such important matters with experts who know this area. The Chairman of the Committee on the Finances of Mr Šircl, these open dilemmas and warnings from the Governor of Mr Kranjc, Mr Arhar of the Association of Banks, the European Central Bank and many experts did not prevent him from doing what he had asked. The proposal for a bad bank law is contrary to the Banking Act, the Company Act and also the Unconstitutionality Act have been mentioned. The Bank of Slovenia, the Anti-Corruption Commission, the Administrative Court, the State Council, the Economic Commission for Europe, by the way, does not support the proposal, the European Central Bank. And in the end, let me mention the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. This is our temple of democracy. On 22 pages, comments were made on the law, both nominally and very substantively. Moreover, the law was supposed to be inconsistent with the great laws I mentioned earlier. And more than that, with the amendments you've accepted, this disharmony has increased. In such arrogance to all the institutions mentioned and experts in this field, Positive Slovenia did not want to participate in the work of the Finance Committee anymore. I believe that you have been pleased with this, because you have handled such an important amendment law in less than an hour, without discussion, only by voting. That's what you do when the opposition isn't there. We will not support the law in Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u34	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. First, I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 1. I'm going to open an application for discussion. Check-in is on. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u35	I admit I didn't want to be the first. I would like to hear from the Minister, in particular, from the Government, what were the reasons for the government's decision to choose this model. We have some very clear views of famous Slovenian economists. Leading Slovenian macroeconomic analyst Velimir Bole warns against copying the experiences of some other countries, which are in fact by copying solutions, by transferring bad claims to bad banks and, on the other hand, by financing through a guarantee for bad bank bonds, with which the bad bank then refinanced its liabilities to banks, significantly jeopardised the state's public finances. Don't think it's just public finances in this case. We want to do the right thing, but we want to do the best we can to solve the basic problem. At the start of the 2009 crisis, the US government was thinking the same way about the same model that the Slovenian government is thinking about today. It has earmarked for $750 billion to transfer claims from banks to specific funds, which are then to deal with restructuring of these investments. They have made more than 5,000 valuations and have found that such an approach is impossible in solving the problem. That's why they chose a second path, a easier path, a simpler path, a recapitalisation that reduces the risk of miscalculation, unfair evaluation. The Governor himself mentioned on the Committee on Finance yesterday that he cannot imagine what a real economic value is. This is a term under this law, because it is very difficult to estimate by different methodologies in a fair way what is the value by which these claims will be transferred. Today, the coalition has made it clear that we have not solved this problem. I want to remind you of what the previous government has done to make this problem smaller. First, in cooperation with Janez Janša's authority in the previous term, she accepted guarantees for nutritional roles, preventing the rise of nutrition deposits in Slovenia at the beginning of the crisis. At that time, the state assured citizens and citizens: your money is safe in our banks. That was December 2008. Secondly, remember that much of the increased public debt in the previous mandate is due to the fact that we have stabilised the banking system. Remember that the country with the deposit rate in banks actually saved the liquidity of the banking system at that time. Thirdly, remember that with guarantee schemes and, by the way, Mr Bole is proposing a similar measure today, which enabled many companies to access credit resources at that time. It is true, however, that these companies already have a problem, that the utility of these loans is relatively short and that this also affects liquidity. These are mainly those companies that have successfully launched their operations through the measures of the previous government and strengthened the export of the Republic of Slovenia to regain the external trade surplus in the previous mandate of Slovenia, which was one of the major achievements of the previous government. Furthermore, banks have recapitalised and we may be able to come to the conclusion that the Borut Pahor government may not have gone far enough. I don't know, maybe she didn't give enough money, obviously, she certainly didn't give enough money to make the banks able to solve this problem. Of course, poor bank management is a key issue. But, my dears, remember that when we were producing this problem, the supervisory boards of the largest Slovenian banks, the two state banks led a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party. This cannot be ignored when we speak of the need to properly detect responsibility and sanction it accordingly. Albert Einstein said we wouldn't solve the problems the same way we solved them. What was the problem back then? Too much political influence on the economy and banks. What are we dealing with today? By embodying an absolute political influence in the concept of bank rehabilitation. And I am rightly afraid that this is to a large extent the issue of the recovery of those claims, especially in view of the selective model that is defined in the law, which will primarily solve the financial problems of the Church and the church financial holding. 700 million Euros of credit, my dear, and one million bankruptcy! Now ask yourself when we're talking about who caused this problem. Do you really think the left hand was lending the Church loans?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u36	Ma'am mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u37	Thank you so much for saying that. I warmly welcome the President of the National Assembly and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, including the Minister. I know he'll come back to the gym. Well-welcome Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! Yesterday was marked by various events that will have a very important impact on our future and confidence in our country of law and protect it from the theft of the country and from the theft of taxpayer money. Other events included a meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, where we discussed the law on the table today. Mr Frangež mentioned that you have long known the Social Democrats and that you have already been drawing attention to the problem of public finances. You have also warned that several rescue models and that the current coalition has decided to be the most expensive model to buy bad claims and that this model is most demanding technically, procedurally and that the procedures are long-term and so on. If you, the respected Social Democrats, had any meaningful model, I believe you would be very happy to consider it on the committee or in the working group and to discuss it today. But there is nothing we can do to help ourselves through philosophical discussions. In my view, the former government underestimated the problem of public finances and the problem of system banks, which are owned directly and indirectly by the State. We know which banks we're talking about. We are facing uncertainty in the banking sector. The effects of poor decisions mainly in the area of public finances of the previous government are delayed, and we all feel this today. The consequences are the contraction of domestic economic activity and the high impact of the Slovenian economy in the form of a credit crunch. It is therefore imperative that this problem be resolved quickly, efficiently and urgently. The reasons why the problem needs to be addressed urgently are more and more obvious. When their credit ratings and long-term debt ratings were reduced, banks also had increased their borrowing costs in international lending markets, or their access to these sources had become very difficult and limited. The average capital adequacy of banks is below the average capital adequacy of the banks of countries in the European Union. Following the assurance of the Governor of Banka Slovenije that we received yesterday on the committee, all our banks are supposed to be solvable, which is good information, that is also in systemic banks. And that gives us confidence in these banks, which is right. However, solvency is only one of the conditions, but it is not the only one that would be sufficient to raise bank ratings when costs are reduced, in particular the cost of borrowing in international markets. At this point, however, I would like to stress my view that the Bank of Slovenia, as supervisor and regulator of our banking system, has reacted too slowly and has not acted in a timely manner to determine the capital adequacy of banks and through procedures to improve recovery of bad claims based on credit. I therefore believe that the European Commission's proposal to set up a European Banking Union is also fine because it will oversee national central banks, in real terms some 160 systemic banks, including our system banks. It is therefore necessary to prevent the negative impact of poor claims on the capital position of banks, which we can do with the procedures proposed by this novelty that we have on the table. The bill provides for the establishment of a special company to manage the claims of banks that will manage a specific fund to manage these bad bank claims. The main measure is the transfer of these claims from banks to the fund. This transfer will not be automated, it will also be in cooperation with Banka Slovenije. The transmission mechanism and the transfer price shall be determined. We have heard of a long-term economic value that will be determined according to certain methods and rules by a specific rule. Banks will receive government bonds in exchange for bad claims. We have heard that the ceiling of this state guarantee is EUR 4 billion. This public debt will be repaid in different ways. It is true that the banks will not be entirely automatically eligible for capital, but will also require a gradual recapitalisation or a fund to resell bad claims or foreign deposits. Specific actions within individual banks, the plan and the strategy will also have to be approved by the Competitiveness Supervisory Authority in the European Union. The purpose of the law is to preserve the stability of the financial system as a whole. Targets are clear. The aim of the establishment of this company and the Fund is to implement measures to ensure the cost-effective use of public funds and the reimbursement of budgetary resources, to promote the lending of the non-financial sector, to privatise banks and, I think, to emphasise, to identify responsibility for the emergence of bad bank claims. Personally, I think it is very important and crucial that this novelty immediately transfer bad claims to the fund, that banks clean up these bad claims and that they can immediately initiate activities in the direction of reprogramming credits, and that would also help to revive businesses, and that is one of the objectives of this government. Eliminating credit crunches and helping through systemic solutions to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, independent entrepreneurs, the possibility to finance activities and thus to relaunch the economy, as well as to maintain jobs and new jobs. That seems crucial to me. For this reason, I undermine the proposed law and the necessity of adopting this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u38	Replica, Mr. Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u39	You've read it very well. But I think, look, I hope you're right, because if you're right, then that means we'll come up with a relatively cheap solution to the problem. I hope you're right. And then, when and if it turns out you're right, I'm going to be the first one in this House that I'm going to answer, and I'm going to say: government, there, there. However, I think that this concept, given the broad conceptual comments of practically the most prominent Slovenian economists, the comments of the European Central Bank, the Bank of Slovenia, and, last but not least, the serious systemic deviation from the applicable legislation, shows that there is a very high likelihood that you are wrong. That's why I'd like to discuss it with you. Now you have talked about many things, about public finances on the one hand, remember our spring debates, what we were telling you at the time Social Democrats – that your concept of the Public Finance Balance Act is wrong because it will reduce domestic consumption and reduce the opportunities for stimulating our exports. That's exactly what it turned out to be, my dears. And I fear data for the third quarter of this year when the effects of the Public Finance Balance Act will be fully manifested. That's when we warned you, my dears, that you need to focus your attention on the overindebted economy and the related banking spasm problem. Is that That's all we've warned you about! And we are therefore very rightly afraid today that in a few months it will turn out that we are right today, as all the evidence shows, that we were right when we addressed the government with a warning on the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act. Yes, the banks need to be resolved. But not my opinion, the opinion of distinguished economists is that there is a cheaper, easier and more effective solution. Yes, that is why I strongly advocate the recapitalisation of banks by means of deposits that we still have in state banks. Unless you've probably spent them in the meantime. Economists point out that the key problem is actually the liquidity of the budget. We know that we have made this liquidity very difficult with the price, by increasing the price of this country's external debt, which, as our President said, has his name, and this is Janez Janša. First with the collapse of reforms, then, I'll say, with reckless statements. The problem is very real, the problem is rational and I suggest that we understand it as well. And look, we have a problem of accumulated bad claims, they accumulate because it's a chain process. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u40	Mr. Frangež, three minutes for the replica has passed. Just enough to warn you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u41	Thank you very much for your warning and immediately, at this point I will finish my replica. In short, let's deal with the problem at the right end, at the wrong end of the problem, we won't solve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u42	Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič has the floor and the mag behind him. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u43	Your Honor! As a member of the National Assembly, I understand that the coalition often disagrees with my opinion that it does not agree with the opposition's position and opinion, both Positive Slovenia and Social Democrats, but I cannot understand that you do not agree when adopting such an important law and that you do not take into account the warnings of the most prominent banking experts. This was shown on the committee when you slightly rejected the actual majority of arguments and suggestions by both the Governor of Banka Slovenije and the President of the Association of Banks of Slovenia, and last but not least you have slightly rejected or overlooked a number of opinions and concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Why are you doing this? However, we do decide on the property that we have left, the property that is owned by all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And it is not right for us to play with such decisions today as we save what is left for us. I cannot understand that despite the serious warnings of the Bank of Slovenia, the Association of Banks, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly are here. What exactly is the key? That the law is contrary to the law, contrary to the principle of the rule of law, that it is internally inconsistent, that it suspends the Law on Economic Companies, the Law on Banks, the Penal Code, the Law on Courts, the Law on Integration and Prevention of Corruption, even the Bond Code, thereby derogating from the system regime. That's impossible! Look, we are not in opposition to adoption, as before, I think one of the Members said when he was representing the opinion of the Group of Members that we are against a solution, not that we are against the rehabilitation of banks. No, we are against under-thinking measures, under-thinking solutions that can actually pull a lot of things behind us, which will be harmful once the law is implemented. I would be very happy if I could trust your actions and if I could trust those who will implement the law in practice. However, the practice has shown that due to the lack of supervisory functions and the lack of emphasis on supervision, it is later determined that it is human to be wrong; human actions are such a human factor. And there's a place to be. In the past, we have allowed theft, but I fear that by such a system law against the system, and against the financial system of this country, we will make it possible to rob the century because we will allow certain voters, individuals who will implement the provisions and measures of this law to handle and resolve those claims according to ours and yours. That's what's gonna happen. And why am I warning today that this is going to happen? Because practice has shown this to be true. It would be much better if we took the time, as we warned you, as we warned you at the time of the adoption of every law. Take into account the opinions of the most visible, even internationally recognised financial experts, do not ignore these opinions today, because tomorrow will regret not only you, but those who follow us will regret it. We're not here to make bad laws. Are we simply a tool of a certain structural elite and accepting that by decree: Accept this so that we can be rich? That's enough, people! Enough! Let's stop the theft of this country! We can prevent this, we must lead the country and not the individuals of us and through us reach our desires and fill our pockets at the expense of those who are the weakest in this country. And then we take Zuif and what do we do? Let us literally strike at the socially weak, the workers and the pensioners. I am ashamed to be sitting here in the National Assembly and to take such measures that are actually destroying the poorest citizens of this country. It is not right for them to pay the price and the sins of those who have robbed this country and those who have allowed and allowed themselves to adopt the wrong legislation. And let's not do it again! Apparently, we were able to learn something from past behaviors and previous calls. Let's stop this country's robbery! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u44	Mag. Andrey Shircelj, after him mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u45	Thank you so much for saying that. It's an emergency. One of the main features of the opposition is to hurry. Time is relative, all those talking about rush. However, we started talking about this law at the end of June. By the end of June, the solutions under this law had been given to one other law, which was regulated by the state holding company at the time. That law also had provisions on how the bad claims of banks would be regulated. However, at the time we decided that that law was not the right thing to do, that there was no need to regulate one law and state holding and bad bank claims. At that time, the President of the Government set up three working groups. One for the fiscal rule, one for the state holding company and one for the rehabilitation of banks. Representatives of the opposition as well as representatives of the coalition participated in these working groups. For the working group dealing with the bank's bad claims, they were called, I think, four meetings, August 7th, August 13th, September 11th, where you participated with the opposition's representatives. In these working groups, we have also discussed different models of how bad claims can be remedied. In fact, we have two concepts for the recovery of bad claims, two main concepts that separate after whether these bad claims will be rectified in a bank or in an institution established by banks or banks that have caused these bad claims will have no effect and will therefore be managed and led in an institution that these banks have caused this will not have an impact. These two concepts are all over the world. What effect will those who have caused bad claims have? And in these working groups, it was said by the opposition representatives that the main measure to resolve the bank's bad claims was recapitalisation, and that we do not need to establish a special institution, a special organisation dealing with bad claims, which will manage these claims in a different way. For 20 years we have this concept, we have been giving taxpayers' money to state banks for 20 years to manage these bad claims that they have caused themselves. And this taxpayer's money gets the bankers, they use it for weaknesses and they just act that way and they act that way as long as they can. Why was that possible? Because banks could be in debt in foreign markets, domestic markets, interbank transactions and so on, ladies and gentlemen. And this concept has cost taxpayers very much money in Slovenia. I think, in my personal opinion, more than a billion euros. Let us look at the profits of the state banks and see how much the state has received from this money. That's the concept. And you're defending this concept. You're saying it's cheaper than that. I don't believe him anymore. I don't think whoever made a bad claim can handle it. That is why another concept is adopted today. This is the concept by which these bad claims will be transferred to another institution where bankers will no longer have this role. Banks will receive a bond for this, so these claims will be specifically assessed or valued and the system will operate in a different way. And you advocate the same concept: recapitalisation for recapitalisation with tax money. Ladies and gentlemen, after 20 years, I think it's time to make an end. And now that's the rush. And we've had a long time. And these working groups, three months, at least three months, we've been looking at different aspects. Yes, and indeed, the working group has decided with most of the coalition that the concept must be made in such a way that bad claims will be resolved outside banks. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, state banks can at any time set up or already have established a company to which they can transfer these bad claims themselves, clear the balance sheets if you want, and thus remedy their bad claims. This has been done by some banks in Slovenia with foreign ownership. Foreigners probably also suggested, recommended, or ordered them to do so. The state banks haven't done this in, like, four years, five years, and I'm not going to say what government she's ever been. They didn't do it. Are the taxpayers still willing to pay for these banks? That's the question now, because that's all you want them to do. And the other thing. This law also states that this is not the only measure. It also says that we have more action. Also recapitalisation. Why recapitalisation? Because that's the only thing that doesn't solve the whole problem. And the key is to find responsibility. And third, to ensure proper guidance, different guidance as it has been so far, and also different controls as it has been so far. And I'm not looking at any government. Even if you want what you want from 2004 to 2008, and even the governor from 2007 to 2007, I don't look at any, I don't mention any political government here because it's a solution. It's a thing. It's just that it doesn't go on like that anymore. This haste is relative, ladies and gentlemen. It's been a long time. There was enough time for these solutions to actually be studied. And they were studied just like anyone wanted. These working groups were attended mainly by Mrs Brunskole and Mrs Bratušek. Another time. A parallel legal system, contrary to the law, to another law. The law may be contrary to the Constitution if the Constitutional Court so decides. Everything else is a flood of what is contrary to the Constitution and so on. The other is that one law cannot be contrary to another law, but that a certain law is taken into account in accordance with the legal criteria that are laid down, meaning that the law currently under way is otherwise governed by certain things, as regulated by the Act on Economic Companies, otherwise regulates things as regulated by the Banking Act. Dr. Pavčnik of the Faculty of Law speaks about this very much, according to which solutions respect legal standards. These matters, how something is not in accordance with this law and how one law is not in accordance with another law, I simply cannot say, but other standards are being respected. One of the criteria is also to comply with that law, which was later adopted. But you have more standards that relate to these things in these books. Of course, there is no contradiction here, but it is that one marriage is otherwise governed by something like that in another marriage. As a result, some of the words that have been said here, such as the kidnapping of a country, the country has already been kidnapped and so on, ladies and gentlemen, are greatly exaggerated. Look, anyway, I'm going to quote, and that's what she said, I wrote it down, Mrs. Bratusek. [[advertising from the hall]] Mrs Bratušek said that someone had already kidnapped the country and so on, but you were talking about the place of the century, Gaspar Gaspar Mišič, which is probably a little excessive to be here about the theft of the century. For I am very afraid that insurance for these claims and that these claims are much less valuable than we actually think they are, and therefore there is a great deal of question here. The next issue to be mentioned, and somehow also of a substantive nature, is evaluation. Look, the profession here is clear. If you do not know the methods of evaluation, of course this does not mean that it is not possible to evaluate. This, of course, means that the profession speaks very carefully about the models by which individual assets are valued. One is a model of future returns, for example, the other is the liquidation value. Usually, two or three models are taken into account in the evaluation and then an average is made, and that's how it's done. There's absolutely nothing to worry about here. The point is that the profession knows that these claims are not tolerated at book value. If it were at book value, then the state would pay too much, more, and if it were not only one owner, but also owned by someone else, such as a foreigner, this bank, there would actually be a subsidy. So this fear, expressed mainly by Mr Frangež, is completely superfluous here. I believe that all these gentlemen, who were also on the board yesterday, have some fear, one way or another, that this law has ever occurred, and not only that, but also that bad claims are being resolved in such a way, is said to be outside the banks. Some say that I have not received any calls from any banker, but that some bankers are very seriously lobbying and also calling Members, how pointless it is, what it is doing here, it is an increased responsibility and so on and so on and so forth. Look, nobody called me, but they say they're calling. This means that on the one hand there is already a very broad front, so to speak, of all those who are against the law, because this law solves matters very transparently. It is very quickly possible to determine responsibility from this law. Responsibility is the problem here. There's a lot of talk about responsibility and the credits given to this or that. I am not talking about individual loans here, and I am not talking about individual loans, but I am talking about the law increasing the responsibility of supervisors, including the supervisory institutions of the Bank of Slovenia and also the management of banks that actually gave these loans. I don't have any problem with the bank if someone gave someone credit because they gave them all the banking rules, but this company went bankrupt because they lost the market and so on and the bank has sufficient insurance. Of course, the problem is those loans that do not have these insurances or are under-insurance. The problem is, of course, those loans which are secured by the opposite shares of other companies, and these companies are no longer, in fact, because of this insurance. This law certainly does not want to rob the century, Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič, but it is desirable that this should not continue and that the robbery that has actually taken place and which has already happened. They just can't fix the ones who did it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u46	The word has magic. Katarina Hotchevar. Replica mags. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u47	Mr. Shircel, she's going to read to you again what I said. You've been listening to me a little bit. Yesterday, Minister Gorenak announced that someone had kidnapped our country. That's what Alenka Bratusek said or repeated after your minister. And I already told you on the Committee on Finance yesterday how the work in the working group was going on, and I ask you not to use these working groups because I will continue to allow myself to read the lines in the minutes, yours, Mr Krusac, mine. Don't use it. You, along with the coalition representatives, have decided that this is the best solution, no analysis, no data, no everything. Don't push us into this same mess. If this is your decision, take responsibility. All I care about is that when you realize that a mistake has been made, there won't be anything left to fix.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u48	Replica, Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u49	Thank you very much, President. Mr Šircelj, I thank you for your explanations, but as you have explained now, it is only necessary to add to this that all experts should be guided and taken into account. We actually have positive balance sheets in the country of companies that are very healthy. However, the problem is that all their profits are allocated to banks because they are actually trapped in the banking system and are literally being exploited by banks today. The problem is to evaluate these companies, how they will be valued, who will collect them, because in fact they may also be poor claims, depending on the debt capacity or the amount of debt. That's the problem. I only warn against such a robbery of the century because there have always been shortcomings on the supervisory side in the past. Someone can't control someone. Then leave absolute control to the opposition. Write that down in law, and then we're off the hook. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u50	The word has magic. Katarina Hotchevar, behind her, Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u51	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all present on my behalf as well. In addition to the tough labour market, the biggest problem that plagues our economy and thus our well-being is the credit crunch in banks. Crediting is the blood of every economy. The state must therefore release the credit crunch as it lasts too long and is one of the key factors why we have such a large drop in activity. Company access to bank financing is one of the key reasons that hinders the recovery of Slovenia. At a time when the government was looking for a solution to the banking system, our credit ratings were failing. And all the reductions have been written in these explanations that our problem is a weak and unstable banking sector. If we do not adopt this law now, then there is nothing to deny continuing to lower credit ratings. The Ministry of Finance presented four different models for the resolution of the banking system during the summer of parliamentary holidays in the working groups. We decided by our conduct to be the best among them. The fact is, each of these models has both advantages and weaknesses. In addition, the law also allows for different options if, in a particular case, this alternative solution is found to be more prudent or economical. There's no perfect model, and unfortunately there's no magic wand. From a macroeconomic point of view, it is crucial that the problems we have in our banks begin to resolve as soon as possible and that banks are cleaned up in a way that they can credit our economy. In Slovenia, the main problem in credits is non-financial acquisition companies and construction companies. The problems of these bad loans are better solved outside the banks, at least by experience in Spain, Ireland and Sweden, where similar cases have been resolved outside the banking system. Such a solution is also more appropriate because it is more transparent. Credit folders will be transferred and markets want a transparent solution. Banks will thus be able to focus on their core function, on their activities and on loans that would still deal with bad claims in resolution within them, which they are currently doing. In addition, in order to strengthen citizens' confidence in the rule of law, I should add that it is crucial that we publish, who and to whom has approved the most problematic loans and ensure that there is clear responsibility for these errors. With all the experts I have heard to discuss on this subject in all the professional articles, meetings and coordination that we have had on this subject and that have been held in connection with the resolution of the banking system, I must admit that the most vivid truth about our condition was told by a modest pensioner from Zagorje when he visited me in my office. He said, "We should be aware that the baptism has neither pockets nor trunks." That awareness was not enough in the past. This human irrationality and unnecessary walking by fast and unearned means has also caused this huge hole that we are witnessing today in our banking system. And this must now be resolved and resolved as soon as possible. It's not gonna be easy, and I want to be happy for those who do. The law is just a framework, a lot of procedural matters will have to be defined by sub-laws. In Germany, this type of rescue has proved successful, so I say that the law is only the first step. It is imperative that we do it as soon as possible and for this reason, I will also support the marriage and amendments today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u52	Thank you, too. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u53	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, I would like here today in the National Assembly those who are most responsible in this country to be in America and elsewhere, so I miss people who listen and respond. My first question. Can't we answer today who's responsible, what happened in the banks, what's the reason? Why can we do that when we have a bad bank? Another time. Do we trust those who run a bad bank? Ladies and gentlemen, this will be a state-owned company that has nothing to do with the property that we may still have. Do we trust that? But we don't trust them until now what they've been doing with so-called state assets. Third time. Do we know what value we're going to take? Three models. What's this value going to be, what are we going to do, how are we going to sell, how are we going to do all this? Do we know how long this will take, or do we have an answer? Mr. Minister, will the credit crunch be immediately, when? When will this credit crunch stop and when will we start financing? When we move everything to a bad bank? Tell me the date. Tell me what's going to happen. Tell me, I'll do it, it'll happen, and you have my voice, and then you say, "I'll step down, we won't do it." That way we don't know, not when or how. I can't really talk about the content. I can't talk about content, but I've been listening to experts. All who get to know each other professionally say that it takes a long time and that a thorough agreement is needed on what we will talk about. How much is our share in these state banks worth? We'll sell these banks right after we start a Slovenian holding company. What's the value? What's the difference between what we're going to sell and what we're going to give? Between the four billion we're giving and what we can get for these banks. Then let the stranger come to us to help us. The stranger was always at the New Ljubljana Bank. The stranger was the one who told us what we could do. I'm sorry, I'm trusting the local intelligence, I trust the local experts, let's just rule out politics from doing what it can. Look, with a bad bank, we're going to increase the assets of the Belgians. If today's New Ljubljana Bank is one euro, if we sell it for one euro, then Belgium will get 0.3 euros, say. By taking bad investments, we've increased the Belgian's assets. And yet, ladies and gentlemen, we have run poorly, so our people, our civil servants have run poorly these companies. What about a bell that wasn't run by a government official who was run by the Church? What about the bell we give directly to the Church and Bell? 900 million. That's what we're giving! And today, Slovenian society needs to be told that we are directly financing what they were doing in Bell and what they did in Bell, which they should not have done. And they're successful, they know how to run management successfully. Let me ask you a question, ladies and gentlemen. When we talked about the Block 6 guarantee, we discussed it for six months, and we talked about 400 million, which will be returned by Holding the Slovenian Power Plant. Today we are talking about the 4 billion euros that taxpayers will give for this through guarantees, through everything that will happen here. And that's why I'm telling you, ladies and gentlemen, we need to reconsider. And today we are talking about what you were talking about on the committee yesterday, with the amendments we received today, we haven't really answered any of these questions. And if we can decide here today with this 4 billion-guarantee law, ladies and gentlemen, remember how you discussed, Mr. Shircelj, on your committee, how we discussed, how we talked, how much we had to prove, or how many others had to prove that we eventually came to believe. Today we are talking about 4 billion, which will not be spoken of, no document, nothing will be behind, no guarantee, no investment programme, nothing will happen! I can't stand such a marriage, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Dr. Krušec, Secretary of State, has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I would like to respond to some of the doubts or dilemmas that have arisen, first of all about these 4 billion. It's a guarantee and it's a claim. Each claim shall also be subject to insurance. And if you've listened to the minister, he mentioned that the final price could be much lower than the 4 billion. So it's essential. Next thing. It was said that 100 million capital was equal to one billion claims. Here it must be mentioned, for the first time, that the claims, as I have already mentioned, are also covered by insurance. Secondly, when it comes to a bad claim, there is only a regulatory minimum of 100 million that the bank has to lower this claim, and in the case of poor claims, there are cases where these weaknesses are at 50 % or even at the level of the entire claim if, of course, the claim is not secured. Thus, it is not said that 100 million capital is equal to one billion claims. The second point is that if capital is invested in a bank, cleaning is gradual, which is not allowed to signal credit houses and international markets. And these international markets depend on banks to be in charge, and therefore a transparent and immediate sign or signal must be given to the international institutions. Other international institutions such as the International Monetary Fund and the OECD, as well as the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, warn us that solutions should no longer be delayed in this area because it costs every week or month. For example, since the law has decided from July to today, we have experienced three reductions in credit ratings. With regard to the determination of the value. Real economic value is a concept and must decide independently and credible. This determination of value will certainly be confirmed by the European Commission. And the European Commission wants to see not only the result, but also the model by which this value was calculated. In fact, it is the European Commission that can approve this real economic value so that excessive fears are exaggerated in this respect. I would also deny that the law is contrary to the Banking Act or even the Company Act, as mentioned elsewhere. And in the end, the Irish model, you say he was very expensive. The Irish model of crisis resolution was expensive. The value or size of the banking sector in the gross domestic product in Ireland is 500 %. It is said to be 5 times the value of gross domestic product. The banking sector in Slovenia is about 1.2 times the gross domestic product. Ireland is on its way from the crisis and is the first country to successfully overcome this crisis. Ireland can be re-indebted on international markets. The cost in Ireland was mainly recapitalisation, not the title of the establishment of a bad bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u56	Thank you very much for these explanations. Now it's mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u57	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Have a good day! At today's session, I feel that too many difficult and unnecessary words have fallen, the place of the century, the amputation of democracy, a parallel state is being established. I don't know why the opposition always has to create a cow and some emergency situation, and I think it's just an extra contribution to our already bad reputation for this house. There is also another possibility that some individuals in this House are trying to become the first allies of a television broadcast called satirical environment. That's my option, too. The question raised by many ordinary citizens is why to save banks. Why should ordinary citizens solve banks if banks have caused this problem alone? And the impression is that bankers sort of solve their problem on their own. I am trying to answer this question with some simple story that has logic, namely that banks are needed in our system in order that if an entrepreneur, some citizen has an idea that he wants to realize, and for this idea he has no money, it is the bank that lends money to him that he can finally realize it and thereby create new jobs. At the end of the day, we all suffer without new jobs. That is why I think it must be in the interest of all of us to save our banking system. Yesterday, however, we were warned that we should not talk about the resolution of the entire banking system, because there are differences between individual banks. I've already shown this graph at one of the previous meetings, which vividly illustrates the problems in our banking system. These deep red numbers include more or less Slovenian banks owned by the state. In these blue numbers on this page are more or less banks that are privately owned. We are talking today in a way about the resolution of Slovenian state banks. I think that we are saving state property, our own property, under one, and thus our economy. What was the problem with Slovenian state banks? I think that the key problem was that these banks were not always decided on an economic basis alone, but also on a political basis. And it's been dragging for years, and that's the fundamental key problem. And when my good colleague Mr Meh points out just one case, I agree, the bell is problematic, but here you also have SCT, Grep, you even have a series of companies that have caught up in this spiral. You don't have to point out one thing. It's right to expose him, but there's still a whole bunch of other cases. One problem is that these banks have decided on an economic and even sometimes too often on a political basis. Then we even have very important Slovenian policies that boast on public broadcasts about how they walked through Slovenian banks and lobbyed for certain loans. I don't think I need to pay particular attention to who this is. In particular, the difference between public and private banks is that private banks decide on the basis of the fact that a project is good, of course, it is absolutely supported. Mrs Bratušek, I am really tired of this constant accusation, who was guilty of something in the past and who is responsible for something and so on. I will say, all policies, left and right, are part of this Slovenian system and are responsible for the banking system and are also responsible for state banks and we all bear part of the responsibility. I can also read certain things to you here. During the terrible time of our government 2004-2008, when, according to Mrs Bratuškova, the greatest evil happened, there were also, I don't know, an example, a visible member of SD Metka Tekavčič. The head of the Nova Ljubljanska Bank was appointed before the arrival of our government at the 25th regular meeting on 5 December 2003 and was appointed Mr Marjan Kramar. And that's history for me. But it pisses me off when we constantly expose each other and who's more responsible for something. If you look at the data, you will find that we are all responsible in this matter in one way or another. Next thing. We have a problem with state banks. And here are two concepts. One concept is that we solve this through recapitalisation and another way of solving it is what our government coalition and this government are now proposing to eliminate bad claims. I, Mr Frangež, and all those who so strongly oppose our resolution of banks, ask whether recapitalisation is so saveable, why this problem of Slovenian banks is not already solved. So far, with recapitalisations to Slovenian banks, we have wasted thousands of 500 million euros, 1.5 billion euros. What are the results? Let's ask ourselves. If everything was the worst in 2004-2008 and everything went wrong at the time, after the government came, who knew how to handle things, then why didn't these problems already be solved. From 2008 to 2012, it has been quite a while. I don't know why Mr. Krizanic didn't save it if he knew how it was done and why the problem wasn't solved today. It is very easy for the opposition to explain and vehemently explain how this government coalition has everything wrong and how we know nothing, but we need to come up with solutions and say this, and we are proposing that we do so and that is how we will do it. It's very easy to Parliament and talk. Lord Meh says, tell us immediately all how much it will be, how much it will be, everything. If he were a witch, he wouldn't be a poor man, he'd be a Slovenian proverb. If we knew everything and knew everything, then we would have, yes, Mrs. Bratusek, then we would have a magic wand and all our problems would be solved. No, we don't know everything. If you're imagining that we know everything, I admit I don't know everything. And we're just trying to save her. I think the most dangerous is the man who thinks he knows everything and knows everything. One last thing. It's always the way we are fools in this coalition, and in the opposition, the experts themselves, I'm not going to go on. If you look at this system or this law that we've drawn up, certain solutions are enabled inside and leave the current banks quite a bit of room for manoeuvre. They have opportunities, they have opportunities, they can take advantage of them. We are, in a way, trying to go into some proactive approach. Look, we're gonna propose this, we're gonna try to solve things. If it turns out that this was the wrong approach, it is likely that we will no longer be, and you will be able to point out to others 10 times whether you see how we were right then and how this could be different. I'd wrap it up. You know, since we're all on the same page, we're sitting here from 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. Even so, we are all viewed as villains, of course, and we contribute to it, and then, at times, some of the things make you very opposed to what it is to be smart and all-wise. But I'll finish here. I'm sorry if I've been too hard on anyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Now there's probably gonna be a replica. I guess so. Mr. Meh, did you report to the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u59	I asked a question to the minister, the government, who proposed a solution to the law. I asked him when the results would be, and I expect an answer from him, not from Mr Tonin. When we're talking about Bell, Bell's insurance is the worst of all the insurance banks have. There's no worse insurance. And we will be direct as much as the Bell did, and if the Bell had any botts, we usually think of the botts on the other side, then believe that the Bell wouldn't get them to give them such credits that we now owe 450 million or more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u60	Thank you very much. We're having problems with the replicas again. That wasn't a replica, Mr. Meh. It was a controversy. Do you have a replica, Mrs. Bratusek? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u61	Mr. Tonin, what you just did was a populism act. The fact is, you want to – you don't want to – the fact is that banks gave the worst loans in the period 2006-2007. This comes from the report. To find out who signed this. And find out. It'll be interesting. The bell was mentioned, T2, after what I could read in the newspapers, because the MPs did not get this report and the Minister of Finance and the President of the Government received it and the information came to the public. That's interesting, too. T2, EUR 2 secured 88 million loan. Great. But this, you want – you don't want it, it happened in 2006 and 2007. And if that hurts, I understand you're in pain, and if that's for you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u62	My colleague Bratusek, what were you misinterpreted about?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u63	That we are all guilty of this, Mrs Romana Tomc, Vice President. About that! When and who is responsible for where we are today. Mr. Tonin was the first to begin with his populism act for a satirical eye, if you've listened well. And if your goal is to be in a satirical eye, talking about 4 billion taxpayer money. I don't know if you guys know how much that is. She's a 4 billion-dollar pensioner in the whole year. That's 10 times more than a lady for maternity benefits, 100 times more than she could give for free kindergartens. And you don't even allow us to talk to experts, not of our kind, but to experts who know about it. And you're the one who said that in the coalition, the idiots and the opposition themselves are experts. Allow us only to make sure that 4 billion taxpayers' money is spent as it should be. I don't know, and I don't understand why you're afraid. I really don't know, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u64	Mrs Bratušek, I still insist on this, it was a controversy and not a replica. It is now an opportunity for a new round, given that we have run out of list of debaters, but the time remains and I ask if anyone else wants to discuss it. I'm opening time for an application. Here's to the application. Eleven other debaters reported and the first to receive the word of Dr. Krušec, who also spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I have not said one more thing before, namely credit crunch and when the results will be. The problem in Slovenian banks has two sub-problems: the first are debtors in bankruptcy and the second are debtors. Why is the solution outside the banks in society better with the debtors in bankruptcy? The point is that the focus of such a company can mainly be on resolving and selling these claims, while the focus in banks that are cleared is on new loans. However, why the company is more suited to the resolution of over-indebted debtors, is because it can pool claims from many banks and therefore has greater leverage in negotiating the re-indebted loan scheme. This was similar in Sweden, where it was found that debtors or debtors were in need of debt insurance, a special discharge expertise, and that a different management or management is needed to resolve bad claims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u66	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u67	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Members and Members, a nice greeting! I think we're together about most important things. This country, the problems it has, is a resolution, the most important problem at the moment is the actual failure of the banking system, which appears to be a credit crunch or whatever else we call it. It's a big problem because we don't know how to make big investments that we basically want to finance with foreign resources, but we don't know how to start them. True, we are no longer united here. Normal countries do not frighten their people, as this reduces consumption. Some countries, for example, even invest money in telling people that things are safe or even raise wages for public servants. We are one of the few where the ruling policy scares people, thus working a direct budget hole. But as far as politics and signals are concerned, that is only to be explained. What credit rating houses are monitoring, what Europeans are monitoring, and what we are monitoring, are not reports. All these people in this country have their own people, observe the functioning of the government, observe essentially what we are talking about in the National Assembly. As a result, what they often write is that we are probably the only country in the European Union where ratings fall due to the impossible functioning of politics. But then they add something else: the impossible operation of coalition policy. They do not add the opposition, because the opposition does not have the opportunity to accept good or bad solutions, and the opposition in fact is not in this composition, nor is it, in fact, such that it continues to irritate and call people to what has been done in the previous constitution. What they blame us for is essentially the state's highest peak, and then two or three days later, the finance minister has to demente him and then both have a different opinion together in three weeks, which is of course a sign that they don't know what's going on at all. And if they don't know what's going on, then this country is extremely difficult to treat. What I would recommend to honourable Members and Members once again is to read the opinions of individual Slovenian experts. Here in the National Assembly there is already a lack of confidence and it is clear that what I am saying, what many others are saying, is not taken with all the necessary seriousness. That is why we have some experts who are trusted by most Slovenian professions. One of these experts is Mr Velimir Bole, and let me read two or three sentences of his opinion, ladies and gentlemen, of the honourable Members and Vice-President. "States generally save banks precisely for the purpose of reducing the consumption of taxpayer money." Then the next sentence, please listen as you wish. "So far in the time of crisis, Slovenia" – I very much miss the Minister, I very much miss the President of the Government, perhaps he looks at us anywhere in America, state secretaries who have fingers in the middle of nowhere, I see a lady who I do not know, well, you will take our advice into account, all honour you, perhaps some kind of telepathy where it exists, please – "for the resolution of Slovenian banks he has committed 600 million euros." That's official information. During the crisis, €600 million. Germany, which also assessed the operation of banks as the main lever for the start-up of the economy, committed 11% of its GDP at that time, Belgium 6,7. If they had given me as much as Belgium, they would not have spent 600 million but would have spent 2.4 billion euros on recapitalisation. How do we differ from those countries that have any control over their economies? After these countries did it. They didn't scream, and they didn't confuse people, people's faith in the ability of the banking system, but they drove the maggots away and replaced them with more capable people. This is where you yell. You are further reducing not only the confidence of us citizens and citizens in the Slovenian banking system, especially of foreigners. In the end, you look at the opposition, it's your fault, because our ratings are falling due to the words of the Prime Minister. We can't stop him from talking! And honourable Messengers and Messengers! A bad bank is a more expensive solution. This is exactly what you refer to as a successful case. That's what the Irish case says. The estimates of prominent experts are that the bad bank is more than 2 to 10 times more expensive than the recapitalisation. In any case, we will have to invest taxpayers and taxpayers in the banking system because of the operation of this country, but according to your idea it will be several times more than ours. And what's most important is the essence of establishing a bad bank, whatever it's called, is an assessment of the value of a bad claim transfer. Even the Americans, and the Nobel laureates in this area, have found this to be such a very difficult thing, that because they do not master this system, they have said they will not do it. When we ask the people who are not, when I ask the empty chairs and the empty traveler there, what you will do, there is silence, just as the empty chairs are. This is how you save our country, and I can only say that you'll be ashamed.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u68	Thank you very much. You want a replica? Mrs Dobovšek, in what were you misunderstood, did you not discuss this moment? Have you discussed it now and will you respond to Mr. Jew? Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u69	Thank you for your word. I have previously discussed the matter which Mr Jew has now discussed, and I think that there is something that must be explained to Mr jedan as well. With regard to the claim that when we discussed the Irish model, only in all cases, Mr Židan, the possible political error of the Irish Government was indeed that it guaranteed the bonds issued by the Irish banks. However, since the Irish banking sector was quite large compared to GDP and the losses were so high, Ireland had to ask for the European Union's assistance. Fortunately, however, the relationship between the Slovenian banking system and Slovenia's GDP is much lower than with Ireland. And that makes a big difference. That's all I can understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I also have to consider this as some sort of controversy, just as I was once critical of my colleague Bratušek. But mag. Juden, despite the fact that the government's representatives are not here, but I listened to them very carefully before, many of your questions have been given very specific explanations. We're moving on now. Mr. Richard Braniselj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u71	Thank you, Vice President. Bank countries are saving for the protection of taxpayers' money. That's right. And what is the danger, in fact, if we leave banks insecure? As we know, the state guarantees the role of citizens, so all the serious countries that are aware of this problem are doing everything they can to rehabilitate the banks. On the one hand, any bankruptcy of the bank is a major disaster for the country, particularly if we are talking about large systemic banks, which also have a certain number of equity portfolios, in important companies that form one of the key economic networks of that country. In the past or at the start of this crisis and the start of this credit crunch, we have actually witnessed a school case of two bank resolution practices where there was a huge difference between the approach of Slovenian banks in foreign ownership and Slovenian banks in domestic ownership. Banks in foreign ownership were extremely quick to fail under the changed operating circumstances, using all the instruments to pay the claims and to immediately replace the management that led to this situation. This was the case of the Bank of Hypo and the case of UniCredit and some others. Of course, these banks also needed to be recapitalised by the owners. Let's see the reaction of our banks in Slovenian ownership! All these banks have been waiting all the time, looking at Gregorčičeva, for a while against the AUKN, and nothing has actually happened in all these times. At this moment, this law that we are considering today brings us certain solutions. It brings solutions to banks, a set of different measures to be used or not by the banks themselves and if they are sufficient to meet the criteria. Of course, we all still want to see recapitalisation to the full by the owners, but these options are obviously extremely small and unrealistic. In the future, if this law is to be adopted, and I hope that, as this is absolutely necessary, in the bank's claim management company, it would actually expect two strong departments to be established there: the recovery department and yet another department, which should be even stronger, and this is the debt management department, not in the way that bankruptcys will be proposed, but in the way that these claims and those debtors will also work in such a way as to detect the signs of recovery and that this company will also contribute to doing everything it domestically, these banks, or not the banks, but those debtors will also recover and give them the opportunity to live, because we also see an opportunity to encourage the economy. It is said that this society will not only be a gravedigger and a ruthless payout, which, of course, is a function, but also this other part of which I am talking about. There's one big danger with a model called a bad bank. When the bank transfers these claims to society, of course, it is in one great advantage. The Bank knows this claim well, what we could not say about the management company. This is said to be an extremely important point and that these claims will be valued at a fair price, at a market price, and that any damage to state property will occur here. Maybe that'll be the end of it. We're talking too much about the responsibility of bankers. Where is the liability of the borrowers who have committed themselves to contracts to repay these loans? We can't say here that some and others were incompetent, that they didn't act as a good economist, which they would expect, and therefore I think that the responsibility is actually mutual. However, the responsibility should be demonstrated in the procedures to be initiated, if justified, and things should be specifically started, processed, and such accountability should also be assessed at some other levels and in some other institutions. I will support this law because at this point I think it is the best possible solution, but it must be clear to us that any solution will also cost. One, two, and three. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u72	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u73	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! In today’s debate, quite a few sharp words were made, including experts and those on the other hand, about the stupid ones and so on. I am certainly not one of the experts in banking and financial fields, I am trying to learn a little bit and I am also learning about things in all areas, because we are all like this, and we must ultimately decide all things, including those that we do not know enough many times for sure. The previous mandate was crystal clear that some reforms should be adopted in Slovenia. Since the beginning of the previous term, we have been saying this, from pension, health and labour law, which, of course, parallel improvements to the conditions for the economy, for new jobs. And that's the tip of saving banks, saving bad investments in banks. I think that this problem has appeared there somewhere in the middle of the previous term certainly, even more towards the end, and, at the beginning or in this mandate, it has reached a sure peak. Earlier, a colleague said that the coalition on the Committee on Finance had not discussed at all yesterday and that we had completed one, two, three. Of course that's not true. The debate lasted, I don't know exactly, I think about three hours, we were also discussing coalition Members, we were discussing seriously, but of course not as insulting as the colleague was discussing yesterday. If I'm allowed to under the impression of any events that took place yesterday. This law, or bank resolution, is certainly about two basic concepts, as I understand it. One is the resolution of bad investments within banks themselves. Yesterday it was clear from Dr. Arhar that some of the banks already mentioned today, especially those in private ownership and foreign banks, did so. And they're still in relatively good shape today. Some others, especially state-owned banks, simply did not do so and therefore only where we are today. That is why we need to approach another way of solving it, because otherwise we will draw this case – rescue or not solving with the same people, in the same ways forward, which means that we will not solve anything, so that we will not contribute to the rescue of the country as such. The US system was mentioned in today's debate and also yesterday on the Committee on Finance. The truth of love, in America, started this problem a few years ago, but there they approached quickly and effectively, and it, of course, solved their, at least temporarily, I hope that in the long run, despite the problems they have again, but it has solved a number of even greater problems on a global scale, including within Europe. There's another thing I've been finding for a long time. Yesterday it was also mentioned by the Secretary of State at the end of the Committee on Finance that all these bad investments are usually dispersed across many banks or that many banks have a problem with the same investments with the same company. I know quite a few cases of Slovenian companies when banks have tried to solve them, but provided that all banks are included in the resolution. And look at the fraction, it turns out that at least one said no at the end, and they said no, and they said no, yes, but if not everything, then we don't save either. And today, the company is in bankruptcy. If you want, I'll give you a few, too, in mind, but I don't think it's right for me to do that. However, when we exclude these bad investments from different banks, it will be one bad investment, it will be one package that a group of people in this group will try to solve. And certainly, if we had a laziness of thinking, if we had such a way to save bad banks or bad investments, we would definitely, in my opinion, have saved a lot of companies in Slovenia. Thus, we know that entire industries have gone bankrupt, and what is left is going bankrupt even in these days, because some companies have also pulled their own subsidiaries, which are otherwise doing well, which have a good program, the program that is being paid. In these days, this, and now I will be concrete, is happening with CM Celje and with the subsidiary VOC Celje, and the highway maintenance company, which has a state concession with a paid business, will almost certainly go bankrupt because of the mother. At our end, however, road infrastructure will probably be maintained by a well-known Austrian company, with some Slovenian subcontractors, which has been happening in Slovenia for too long. Of course, you are in the parliamentary group, and I also personally want to find consensus between the individual parties, between the coalition and the opposition on the concept of rehabilitation. Then I'm sure it would be easier. It would be easier to take this project forward. That is also what I said yesterday, and this has been heard from many comments, comments from true experts, it is not my idea if the Bank of Slovenia in the past carried out its tasks in accordance with the law which gives it tasks and powers, and in the past it would also use some of the sharper measures available to it in order to intervene in the future in a timely manner, the problem would certainly be smaller. And more importantly, it seems to me that it is important to save bad investments outside the bank in order to be able to find specific responsible people for such behaviour. I hope that's possible, despite my colleague waving his hand at me, it won't be. If we solve those responsible inside the banks, within the system where these reckless mistakes have been made, then I go back to the same thing: with the same people, with the same procedures, we will not find the culprits. I agree with yesterday's debate by my colleague Starman on the Committee on Finance, and I told him yesterday that all the solutions available to us are more or less bad, but at this moment, it is wisdom to choose the best of the bad. I sincerely hope that this concept, which is set up, is really better than the bad ones. That's why I'm going to support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mrs. Patricia Shulin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u75	Madam President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! Today we have heard a lot of perceptions, such and different, even at the expense of all of us, at the expense of banks, although I still trust our Slovenian banks. I have been a commissioner for more than 20 years of the New Maribor Credit Bank and I say that I will not raise my savings because I trust the bank somehow. We know our banks are solvable, but it's true that their capital power is falling. That's because we have so many unsecured, irrecoverable loans. Today, we have before us this law, which we briefly call a banking law, and the law on measures to strengthen the stability of banks, for once only for the three of our largest state banks, which control as much as 45% of the market. We are also following the law with a view to allowing measures to improve the stability of our banks. Today, I have heard opposition Members knocking on our conscience several times, but let us listen to Slovenian and economic experts in the economic field. Okay. Then I ask you where your relationship is with three experts, when they point out that a fiscal rule should be entered into the constitution. And here, all of a sudden, their opinions don't matter that much to you anymore. Also, your reliance on these experts is not in any way so wrong if you also heard your specific proposals to improve this banking system. Indeed, there are several models with which we can improve the financial situation and stability of the bank, including the recapitalisation of banks, which we have been doing practically for almost all 20 years, but let us ask ourselves: Is this also effective, or is this how it works? I think that we are all here today because we have found that the recapitalisation of banks has not brought more stability, because, after all, it has not been possible because these unsecured loans have continued to be made. Perhaps it is not wrong for me to mention for myself that with these indications, which the government was most responsible for all of this, let us stop because we will not solve anything with this. Voters mainly ask me when we're talking about bank issues, when we're going to stop these manipulations in our banks, what we're going to do about it in the National Assembly. Manira, maybe it's a more bitter term, it's a habit they're used to in banks. Let's just ask ourselves how these banks were supervised by the largest bank supervisor, this is Banka Slovenije. I think it's bad. And let's ask Banka Slovenije if she was in private hands, whether she would behave that way as a supervisor. I doubt it. Unfortunately, this impact of the financial crisis, which is global and not only present with us, if it were only for us, would probably all be more quickly resolved, has been the most affected by small and medium-sized enterprises. Some companies are also successful with us, and fortunately there are quite a few. They probably have a good strategy, good leadership, good markets and so on. However, something soon happens to these companies to slip into the financial liquidity crisis. I know the company itself, which successfully produced a steel fuel tanker that employed 90 employees, was successful, marketed all over Europe, and then unfortunately came across a Swedish buyer who was a very good subscriber and also a mercenary for a while, and suddenly this Swedish buyer did not pay this company a few million dollars. And this company almost overnight found itself in great liquidity difficulties, when it could no longer just pay the goods it ordered, the wages of workers and the tax liabilities. Of course, he was looking for a solution at the bank, to help with the loan, but he didn't get it. So the banks don't service our economy. Even in my previous job, when I inspected companies, some have already seen that they have almost all their assets on leasing. Even the chair in the office was for leasing. When can you give such credit to someone, when and who can give unsecured loans? I wonder if all these loans have been given in this way. I guess not. There must have been some friendly, political, or other kind of relationship. When I was walking down Nova Gorica Street, I was stopped by a banker we know from our home environment, and he somehow felt that we were all bankers here in the National Assembly now all of a sudden made for thieves. That's what he said. I haven't heard from anyone around here that I would condemn everyone who works in banks in this way. However, there is a part of these bankers, some number who were hoping to lend to them. I repeat, I don't think it's on my own. And also bank employees, probably a certain number of employees there knew and knew that these loans were being made. However, Slovenians usually put their heads in the sand when they need to be exposed, pointing to the specific person who does it. And I'm afraid, I'm very afraid that despite today's debate, despite everything we're saying and everything we're dealing with is being given now. It is true, however, that this is the way certain elites are accustomed to doing business and lending. Who these elites are, we probably know, some are infamous, some of them know in their own environment, that is, people who have more in their wealth than they've ever earned, and they'll be in their own lives in the first place. This is very visible from the environment we all come from. I would very much like to appeal to all of us once again that we are really trying together to find good solutions, that for all the reasons mentioned, we also need to strengthen our banking system in the long term, to remove bad claims from banks, to recapitalise credit institutions, to prepare restructuring plans for our banks – they are bad and have also brought us here – and thus to consolidate the banking system, by combining, connecting and taking over. That is why we have a good law before us that saves these bad loans outside the banks, these bad claims that the banks themselves will find very difficult to come up with, so I hope that we will support this law with some majority today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerko Chehovin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Unlike my predecessor, I'm not so sure we're making such a good marriage. I have to get back a little bit first. Today it may be at least six times, which is what we are talking about in this house at different levels, that the main problem of Slovenian public finances is not the public sector and the pensioners are the higher education and so on, but the main problem of Slovenian public finances is the over-indebtedness of the economy. Absurdly, the economy is more or less affluent, we have private property. However, if we think that virtually all companies are in debt in this country, we have a system that runs in such a way that most of the company's credits have been received by banks, and that in the case of state banks, when they are not able to repay these loans, these credits, I repeat, this means private loans, are socialised through public debt. And this is the main problem of our public finances in Slovenia. When we warned him about this, he was a priority and fashionable member of the National Assembly, and I'm telling him what to say after his home-made "swiping". We have given priority to "swiping" and adopting measures, some of which are controversial, some will still prove to be unconstitutional and so on. We have wasted a great deal of time not taking a real approach to solving our problems. Everything else was a priority, even ideologically, if I may say so, everything had priorities, not what is actually the problem of this country and public finances. Minister Šuštersič himself admitted that he thought a few months ago, that he publicly stated that the problem was only NLB. Now he's rectified that it's not just an NLB problem. There are other banks. But once again, it is mainly those banks that are state-owned or wholly or partly state-owned. So we wouldn't do anything wrong to all the banks and the banking sector, which is a risk that we will do it. But virtually nothing happened by the end of May. It was only when the deadlines for the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank tightened our necks that we quickly remembered that we had to do it by 30. 6. recapitalise the New Ljubljana Bank. And we did this with so-called famous Coco bonds, which, when we didn't get the external investors, we did this in a way that we asked Kad to transfer it to the Ljubljana Bank and we're part of a deposit that, by the way, was leased by a former finance minister in previous years and he gave it to banks for better solvency, this billion and half that they have, banks are turning, turned into Coco bonds. I hope these Coco bonds don't go as fast as a hybrid instrument into equity or maybe that's an interest. In short, we didn't do much with banks. Now, all of a sudden, we find that this is urgent, urgent, we have to solve this in every way. We are similar to that marathoner who starts slowly and has some pace when one kilometer reaches the goal, if he has too many competitors, he gets into the sprint. We're in that phase where we're sprinting and trying to get ahead of ourselves so we don't get caught. But I claim that, where it exists, it is true for banks and for such interventions into the banking system, the Latin river: Festina Lente or Hiti slowly. Why? Because there are too many open questions. But not because of us opposition, which we are trying to implement, but because they have great concerns about experts. And last night, on the Committee on Finance, we were able to listen to a class lecture on what a banking system means, that money is a shy bird, that banks are sensitive, that by force from the outside we will not increase our creditworthiness. And a series of such and different opinions. When, in the spring, what was said today, we excluded the banks from the holding company, the best thing to do is to keep the banks in holding, so that this holding company has even less returns, we said that we would solve it in a way, or that we would solve it legally in a proper way. These expert groups were called. It has already been said today that this section has seen the first proposal and the last proposal that has come to this Parliament. It wasn't coordinated in the middle. Again, the opposition had no chance to see other options. The Bank of Slovenia has also drawn up its law, which we are not considering today, and we have not even tried to deal with it because it has found that it is a bad solution. And we did not demand anything else, but it was possible to exchange some opinions mainly for the sake of the profession and to review and finalize some things. But of course this coalition renegade goes on, you've already made up your mind, and today we just have to brighten up these things and automatically accept these solutions, as if they were the only ones to be saved. There are a lot of questions here to quote the Minister of Finance. Dr. Janez Šušteršič said last year: "Bad bank is a bad solution. The key problem to be solved is how the banks will bring fresh money into the economy. If you were to transfer the claim to a bad bank, you haven't done anything yet, so there will be no new money for the economy. Since poor claims are mainly equity shares in companies, the state would again become the owner of companies, which is not meaningful. A much more effective solution would be for banks to sell claims themselves with a discount or to cash them if they were shares. This would generate additional liquidity. The only way to think about a bad bank would be to have a real good buyer. The transfer of claims would be a condition for NLB to reach agreement with a private buyer for NLB." We see how the responsible people themselves, I will say, are rapidly changing in their perspectives, despite the fact that some of them were warned six months ago about the main problem. But since they've decided that or we've got out of commission that we have to do this, now it's the only thing we know. We hear that all that comes from outside is sacred and saving, which is at home, so nothing is worth it. Domestic experts are also worthless and domestic models are worthless. We are now introducing a German model into this bank. We did not really discuss whether this model of so-called external bad banks is the only one or not. Were we discussing something more serious about why the internal model might not be better or whether it was property? We didn't even talk about ownership. But it's some instruments that would come a lot faster. Do not forget that the time-frame for implementation, the mechanism of the external bad bank, which we are practically introducing with this agency, is a long and systematic process that will not quickly bring these results, which we have been talking about today, so that we are in a hurry. This is the slowest of all processes. We've made up our minds and we're in contradiction here. On the one hand, you say it's urgent here, on the other hand, we go to a model that is the most time-consuming and takes the most time. In addition, we in the same law are completely, I will say, ignoring the regulator as if it were not, disregarding it, giving him virtually no role, maybe some consultative role at morning coffee and also introducing some model, we say that it is a German model, but we also have very important differences here if we are looking at only a German model that is not explained. We foresee coercive measures in this law. Germany, too, knows only voluntary arrangements. The price of claims. According to the German model, claims at book value are transferred and not, as our government suggests, at a realistic long-term economic value, which the Governor of the Bank made clear yesterday that he does not know what this is. What was real economic value five years ago is now garbage. I just want to say that we don't have some kind of fiddler, we don't really know, we've decided on one model, and we'll say, grab what he's gonna take. And a short period of time for the operation of this agency. In Germany this deadline is, say, twenty years, in Ireland for ten years. Can anyone answer me today, or are we going to get these things out faster than these countries? We don't have those answers. In short, this model today asks us more questions than we have received answers. And yet you're all saying it's a good model, the only model to solve this thing here, but I don't think that's the case. Now, there's something else, though I'm in favour of solving the matter in advance, but for the sake of credibility, I just have to say one more thing. You know that two years ago, in the previous mandate, a special investigative commission was set up to produce a report on all the so-called tycoon credits. This term of office of the Commission is the current government coalition or some parties have put it together, so that it has actually limited itself to only some companies, such as the acquisition of Istrabenz, Pivovarna Laško. Some of the others just went down. This address is so long it doesn't make sense to me to talk. However, something else is more interesting, and here I think you will be very able to look for and find political responsibility. Very easy. In 2006 it was found in the then government that this problem of tycunization was becoming relatively large, so a new law on banking and accompanying acts were also drawn up on the nose with Banka Slovenije. They knew something was wrong at the time, but what happened? Amendments to the legislation were adopted in December 2006 and are expected to enter into force 1. 1. 2007, with the exception of the second paragraph of Article 143, the third paragraph of Article 159(1) and Article 162 of this Law, which entered into force with effect from 1. 1. 2008 You can assume that these were mainly those provisions of the law governing bank approaches in the calculation of capital requirements and, in particular, risk management and decision-making when deciding on the granting of loans. These were so-called loans, which were widely distributed by the end of the year. I can also tell you how many of these contaminated loans have been given each year, but it doesn't even make sense to talk about it. Clearly, it was a double responsibility. Banka Slovenije as regulator should change the weight, and this has also changed from 1.1 to 1.5, which means that what they leased credits should be 1.5 insurance. However, the government was politically responsible for delaying the amended legislation for one year. It has postponed for one year and at that time 90% of the contaminated loans we are talking about have been granted. Why was that, you will likely be able to tell those who were making up the coalition at the time. But I think we all know which coalition ruled from 2004 to 2008. Just one more thing about the concept itself. I welcome what my colleague Presecnik said, he is no longer in the hall. Are you aware that there is no one else in the banks who hopes to decide anything? We have also sunk some companies this year, if we had a policy, we could save them. But no one dares to decide whether to convert part of the loans or some kind of credit into a share of the ownership. As well as healthy companies that have a market and have a liquid spill large enough to survive. It was a problem to fix old loans. But we said one company from Primorska that the government isn't Santa Claus to do that. When the minister makes such a statement, or you think the bank manager will say, "But I will give you this consent." He's not the kind of director to give it to. I could even list things, but it doesn't make sense. I am only saying this that it is not right that such important matter as the rehabilitation of banks, which we well know must take place, but must also take place parallel to the deleveraging of the economy. If we do not resolve this, then there will be a risk that within this external bank we will only resolve selectively private loans at the burden of taxpayers. But we'll let the others go where they're going. And once again, I tell you that not letting the professions exchange more opinions together, not letting the opposition go, so that everyone can come up with better solutions together, seems crazy, literally insane, and irresponsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mag. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u79	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Banks Stability Act or Bank Recovery Act is likely not to solve banks in order to make it easier for the State to borrow via banks abroad or at home for budgetary deficits. If this is the goal, it is wrong, wrong, harmful to the country, unless it is an investment. Yesterday, Mr Marko Kranjec, Governor of Banka Slovenije, pointed out, as some Members point out, that more than 50% of Slovenian companies are over-indebted, lack capital, that is to say that they have an inadequate capital structure, which means they are also not credit-worthy. But it has to be said, these are not the companies we're talking about today. These are export, technological, of high added value, companies that, in those good times when there was enough money, have been entrusted with expanding their activities, have also absorbed a new workforce, but today, when they have to work on a greater scale, they do not receive loans for turnover. Today we are talking mainly about those bank claims towards companies, such as construction, which went to bankruptcy more or less, tycoons, financial holding companies, and ultimately, if you will, the Church. Finance Minister Dr. Janez Šuštersič said on our committee yesterday: "The credit crunch is the main reason that economic growth cannot go away." He's actually holding. She's probably a chicken and an egg. What's the sooner? Or a credit crunch or a start-up economy? Both are likely to have to be solved. Saving or rehabilitating banks with state ownership certainly does not solve the main cause that we have today, and we all close our eyes, run away from it, and leave it to someone else — the economy. It's just the result of something. This was due to poor management, but not to those healthy businesses, as I said before, but it was about the construction companies that were overeated, it was about the Church and it was also about financial holding companies. Economic growth and, of course, GDP is also negative. And despite the third packages issued by the Ministry of Economy and 200 measures, even negative economic growth has shifted to a trend for 2013 and has been corrected by the autumn forecast as negative and previously forecasted as positive. What does that mean? This means less money for personal consumption, public consumption, investment, development. There is even less purchasing power, a higher number of unemployed, which has already been announced for 2013, without any responsibility for 130 000 of them, and a clear deterioration in the competitive capacity of the Slovenian economy. It created a spiral of negative economic growth. And the rate of decline will also depend on the recession forecasted for the last quarter of some economic activities in those countries in which we export. That's what we call our square. It is clear from the newspapers that about 15% of our exporters have fallen to other suppliers. The various release of fog and the concealment of the main cause in Slovenia is a distraction from the essential problem, this is economic consolidation. Another time. If we free banks of bad claims, banks can invest fresh money in the economy, not in their own recovery. And let's do it with this law. It's very clear in this law, I think you've read it, and you don't have to ask it because it's been said many times today. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u80	One moment, please, if you don't communicate with each other while Comrade Pojbič speaks.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u81	And the third thing Mr Minister has said is also extremely important: bad claims are transferred from banks to this particular society in a transparent way and this law allows for the identification of responsibilities at the same time. This is the key problem we are facing, and the difference between recapitalisation and this law is that, in addition to giving the banks money, we will also bring their responsibility into play. That's crucial, and so far it hasn't been. I listened to the Governor, who goes to work every month for the 12 thousand euro fights, he claims – I can say this in Slovenian, which is funny, and poor people live with 500, 400 or 300 euros – he claims that the Bank of Slovenia estimates that the Slovenian banking system is worth about €6 billion in bad claims and three to four billion in the most exposed banks. The function of the Bank of Slovenia is – what? Banka Slovenije has a function to control. Where was she? Where was the governor at that time, I ask. Where? For 12 thousand Euros a month's gross payment! Where was he? And then he says in his media interviews that we have to work slowly so that we don't have to rush anywhere, that everything is okay in this society. Dear ladies and gentlemen, this is not normal thinking! The fact is that it is the last time — and anyone can laugh, however he wishes — that we change this course and start taking Slovenia along the path that we should have since Slovenia was born, and that we have promised those in politics. The Finance Minister and the Ministry have now drawn up the law that I support, and I know that this issue will be addressed in the way that is most acceptable for the situation in which our country is the Republic of Slovenia and citizens and citizens. That's it. I am convinced that this law is an excellent basis for us to draw from this spasm, to take the path of re-rehabilitation of the Slovenian economy. Here I heard someone say an important sentence: "This law is an opportunity for Slovenia and a way out of the crisis." So one of the key projects of this government. I'm sure that's true. I therefore call on all Members and Members to come together, to find an appropriate solution, but in a way that is essential and necessary for the future of our citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Is this next one please? [[...]] Mrs. Bratusek, you don't have a replica this time. Mrs. Bratušek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u83	Mrs. Tomc, can I? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u84	Can you stop Parliamenting for a moment and listen to what I have to say? You were mentioned. Because I somehow expected one of my colleagues to be mentioned, I listened very carefully. The fact that someone's mentioned isn't the reason for the replica. You weren't. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] You weren't misunderstood, and this time you don't have a replica. We're moving on. Dr. Črnak Meglič [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u85	Dear Chairman! There are things I believe you understand in your own way. But there are times when most people in the hall understand them differently than you do. Since, according to the rules of procedure, we all interpret the following — now listen carefully to me! The replica is not when someone is mentioned, but when someone misinterpreted something. In this case, please, if you give what is provided by the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Bratušek's replica, and as chairman, you will find out whether she has abused the replica or not because she has the right to do so because most have noticed it. Please, if you respect the rules of procedure, on behalf of and for the good of democracy, which has been repeatedly violated this time. I hope you're not in this package.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u86	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. I'm staying in my position. I'm in charge of the session. I'm explaining the article on the replica as I explain it. At this point, I think I'm explaining it correctly. Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u87	Madam Vice President! Right now, I think you've gone over; not just the rules of procedure, but beyond some moral values. 15 minutes ago you gave the floor to Mrs Damjana Petavar Dobovšek, who was not mentioned in a single word, but she explained what was happening in Ireland, as if she had come from Ireland, and now you do not give the word of Mrs Bratušek, because Mr. Marijan Pojbič literally mentioned her, mentioned her explanation, disagreed with her explanation and you do not give a word! Madam Vice President, as I appreciate you, correct your mistake. The most important thing in life is that you can admit mistakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u88	I agree with you, Mr Han, but I have really listened very carefully, and I think that here the opportunity for further discussion and for clarification will not be violated in any way, we still have enough time available. Mrs. Bratusek, you don't have a word. Procedural? I didn't understand you. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u89	Madam Vice-President, on behalf of democracy in this National Assembly, please allow me to replicate. I was quoted as saying that there were holes in the finances in 2006 and 2007. That's not true. I will read to Mr Pojbic what I said: "In state-owned banks, holes were created in 2006 and 2007." That's why I'm asking you to give me a chance to replicate. Don't say he didn't mention me, etc. Don't make any difference, please. Don't be afraid of what we're trying to say. You are afraid of what we have Members on this side to tell you, and then you invite us to hold hands, step together and help you get out of the crisis. I told you yesterday, I'm more ashamed of myself every day. You don't have the same criteria for everything, so please allow me a replica of Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bratusek. This time you, I think, took advantage of this procedural issue that you have already partially replicated. Anyone else have a procedural question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u91	Today, the chairman, we had a demonstration at the outset for one simple reason, because someone stubbornly insists on the position of power, not because he wants to understand something. Far from not wanting you today — or saying you understand the rules of procedure in your own way. You simply – now we have lost 7 minutes when the replica is long overdue. The explanation was also made within this interpretation of Mrs Bratušek, why the replica is necessary and why it belongs. No, you insist stubbornly. I am not compelled to find, together with the Members of Positive Slovenia, that we cannot work normally with the Vice-President of the National Assembly even if we cannot work with the President. I ask you very much to respect the rules of procedure and simply order what you, as Vice-President and President, have the opportunity to do at this meeting. Please, because otherwise I'm going to start using other business options.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u92	Thank you very much for this business proposal. I give the floor to Dr. Black Nebula. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u93	No, we're not nervous. Dear Vice-President, I will now read to you the 70th Article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states, quote – now, if you listen very carefully to me, the Vice-President – "Every debater" – and the debater – "has the right to reply to the debate of another debater, the replica as far as this debate relates to his debate, if I am concerned" – says the debater to me, not you – "that his debate was misunderstood or misinterpreted. The chairman shall give him the floor as soon as he requests it. The replica shall be limited only to the necessary explanation and shall not last more than three minutes. The replica is not allowed unless the President considers that the references in the replica were incorrect." Madam Vice President, it's not your decision to make! Alenka felt that Mr Pojbič was misinterpreting her, and she wanted the word to explain what he did not understand in the debate. I already had a feeling he didn't understand much, but she was named. So I would ask you once again if you adhere to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I read article 70 to you, and I would ask you to give your word because you have only complicated the story. We'd be out for three minutes, and now we're going to be messing around for 15 minutes about you not understanding the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your initiative and your proposal. On behalf of democracy, I will compromise, and I will now give the floor to my colleague, Alenka Bratušek, to explain what was wrong with her, although once again I would like to point out that there is no business reason for you to have a replica, because I believe that you have not been misunderstood in anything. Now you have the floor, Mrs Bratušek, to explain exactly in what part of your discussion you were mentioned, but you were misunderstood.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, for your kindness to respect the rules of procedure which are the rules of procedure of all of us, not just you. Certainly the biggest hole in Slovenian banks was created in 2006 and 2007. This comes from a report received by only two persons in this country; and this was President Vade Mr Janez Janša and Minister of Finance. How the data came to the public, I don't know.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u96	What were you misunderstood about, Mrs. Bratusek?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u97	In that it is a hole that I, as Director of the Budget Directorate, am responsible for the financial hole and not to hang it on the previous government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u98	What were you misunderstood about?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u99	Yeah, now. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u100	Your debate was misunderstood. Which one?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u101	This, Madam Vice-President, that the biggest hole in Slovenian banks was created in 2006 and 2007, when the Slovenian government was led by the same president as today, the same president as today, and the biggest government party was the same government party as today. I was misunderstood about that. I was misunderstood about this, and Mr Pojbič wanted to say otherwise. I hope I've made myself clear. The data suggests that the facts are here. I've told you three times in the morning whether you like it or not. But once again, I don't know what you're afraid of in the National Assembly! You want to shut our mouths while at the same time inviting us to cooperate in the preparation of laws that you refuse to do, to prepare amendments that have not been voted on, and in the end you will not give us a chance to defend ourselves. If my colleague is attacking me, I can probably tell and explain and reject the truths he's saying.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u102	Now you've basically said what I've always wanted to say: You've been attacked and you've been defending yourself. But you still haven't been misunderstood. That's it. I think you have had the opportunity to explain; that democracy in this temple of democracy is still and that we can move forward with the debate. Dr. Black Blur has one more before that — what? Procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u103	Look, Madam Vice President, you don't have that right. You must lead, direct the debate and simply suggest that it be held at the College of the President of the National Assembly, that is, the real leaders of the parliamentary groups, the debate on whether you are still fit for leadership, for the Vice-President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u104	Thank you very much for this proposal. I hope that we can now proceed with the debate [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] One more procedural question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u105	Look, I'm sorry, but about these replicas, we're always fighting and creating scenes. I think that colleague Jakič has read the business regulations well, where he writes in that the replica is justified by the one who was misunderstood. The vast majority of the debaters, who want to have a replica, are using the replica to show the opposite facts. Which, of course, is purely legitimate and fine, but this is a matter of debate, it is not a matter of replica. My procedural proposal is that – as Mr Meh said – the college does not deal with or deal with your resolution, which is completely irrelevant, but my proposal is that the college – the leaders of the parliamentary groups will once again be fully informed about how and what we will interpret this replica so that it will not be interpreted individually and that we will not always fight.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u106	Good. Thank you, too, for your procedural proposal. So that we don't let anyone go, does anyone else have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u107	Thank you. I think we have witnessed in the National Assembly several times an attempt at verbal interpretation of things that go beyond the linguistic meaning of words. Madam Vice-President, there was a difference between the bank and the finances. And in Slovenia there is no State institution, no government, no state council has the right to decide or to judge language issues. In Latvia and Lithuania alone, the Government has the right to set language standards and to judge language issues. Therefore, I procedurally suggest that in Slovenia we be aware of this and not try to impose language interpretations because we can get information about words in the Slovenian Book Language Dictionary or refer to the Institute for Slovenian Language at the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art; the Institute is called the Fran Ramovš Institute. For this is the matter of interfering with things that we obviously do not understand well enough. Kolga Jakič read an article in the Rules of Procedure that discusses when a replica is and how the replica must be understood and how. This is an interpretation, and if Mr Pojbič speaks one language, but Mrs Bratušek has spoken another, it is not a controversy, which you often say is – and must not be a replica – but it is an agreement between two who have different views on one thing. I think we're doing too much with the replica in an extremely impossible way. I allow the possibility that we will go on the principle that the President is the sole interpreter of the Rules of Procedure, but, once again, I tell you about language issues, and the wording of the Slovenian language does not give the President this right and does not have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Your procedural question or proposal is also very interesting. Now I'm going to look around if there's anyone else who might make any suggestions. Otherwise, we'll keep going. Dr. Black Blur has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u109	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Colleagues and colleagues! I really think that what we have witnessed now is absolutely unnecessary, especially after yesterday's obstruction and today's complication in addressing this law. That's not necessary. Why are you restricting the possibility of parliamentary democracy and participation in the debate? That's the first one. Now, let me move on to the content itself. The fact is that the recapitalisation of banks, on the one hand, and the establishment of a bad bank, that these are two ways to solve the same problem, is to say the problem of bad claims. But the difference is that this other one, the real establishment of a bad bank, is significantly more expensive. For the Slovenian situation, the assessment is that this measure, which you will undoubtedly take, will be three times more costly than recapitalisation. The fact is, the most visible Slovenian economists and, if you like, bankers also point to the irregularity of this solution. The fact is that the Nobel Prize winner Stiglitz also points to this, which says, "A weak bank is always a bad idea, because it means that the government assumes claims against all borrowers and creates moral gambling." We're talking 4 billion money. And what was the key problem that we dealt with before, with inadequate management? Does inadequate management solve the form or the problem? In this management, you all say it was too much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u110	I ask politely if you would listen to a fellow Member, I apologize to Dr. Črnak Meglič for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u111	You all said that in this case it was too much policy influence on decision-making. And you and your bad bank are gonna end this?Oh, my God! Excuse me, the role of the Interdepartmental Commission clearly suggests that the impact of policy will be at least one way or another greater than it has been so far. But we are talking about a significantly higher concentration of capital in one place and also the possibility of deciding on credit and resale, which, of course, means enormous political power. The fact is that we have not answered a number of questions in the law itself that should be resolved. On the issues that, I will say, are of a formal nature and that I see that there is an ever-increasing gap between the interpretations of the Government and the Rule of Law, and this is becoming a serious problem for this Parliament. We claim that a parallel legal system is being established. How will this Parliament proceed if we allow it? If he's robbing and disobeying his own laws he passed? What if he allows a parallel legal system? I think we have a big problem and it's gonna be very hard to keep our faces up and keep up with our work. Among the issues that seem particularly exposed, I would like to talk about the fact that we are not fully clear on the basis of the content of the law and the law does not specify which banks will be eligible for action. In particular, this raises the problem of private banks, whether it is the duty of taxpayers to solve and remedy the problems of private banks. Another time. It does not specify the procedures for which banks will be able to request action. It does not specify the key by which banks will be selected to assist them. It links and refers to a whole bunch of sub-laws. I think we have this law that you say is so perfect and complete, big, big problems. So I'd say you're just going to make a decision that you're going to make and you're going to be responsible for. But if there is a chance to save the articles or the writings of the solutions that are in marriage, let's take the time, otherwise we said by Tuesday, but I doubt that we will be able to respond sufficiently with this time to all the concerns that are being raised and raised here. Look, Dr. Kranjec said that Slovenia's problem is not solvency banks, Slovenia's biggest problem is the capital adequacy of Slovenian companies. Good companies still get credit. With bad companies, with those who do not have capital adequacy, we have major problems. We will continue to do so. I'm just going to say, in the course of time, that the fat cows were beheaded by the economy. In the end, let me say that. When a farmer had a sick cow, he received a series of tips on how to heal her, but the cow died. We are also now taking a series of measures to treat the sick economy and the banks. Let's make sure the taxpayers don't fall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u112	Thank you very much. The word was wanted by the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u113	I have heard this claim several times today that solving the problem of bad bank claims in the form of a bad bank is said in a special institution outside banks, several times more expensive than resolution within banks or resolution through recapitalisation, you said. Thus, the claim was made. Now, your colleague said 10 times more expensive, you said three times more expensive, I don't know if the Fran Ramovša Institute can help me do this, but so much for a joke. Now, seriously. What is mentioned in this solution as the upper limit of the guarantee to transfer claims is what arises at the time of transfer. Then it's property in this society. This company will reimburse the claims. Claims will be transferred to this society at real economic value. Real economic value means an assessment of how much more can be recovered for these claims. It could be 10%, it could be 30%, it could be nothing. I'll tell you that, too. This is the first stream of money to come into this society. If this real economic value could be accurately assessed at the time of the transfer, it would ultimately be as much as the guarantees will be given. Of course you can't. The question was how and who would assess it. This will be assessed by this company, together with the bank – no, wait, I have not yet finished – and they will be evaluated at the task of this company, and I think it is also written in law, by independent assessors, and this assessment will also have to be confirmed by the European Commission. Why does she have to be confirmed? Because if it is not confirmed, it will be unlawful state aid if overpriced. I know for a long time what I'm talking about, because that's exactly what we did, Mr Han, when we set the price of contingent-exchange bonds with which we recapitalised the New Bank of Ljubljana. Because we went right through this procedure. We did not fix this price with the Secretary of State, but we verified it with the European Commission. There are very clear methodologies for this. We can also ask them to come to you sometime to explain them, if you want, but they exist, they are known, and it is no magic, no special magic. That can be done, and there's no big deal about it. That's the first thing. Thus, when claims are transferred, they shall be transferred at this estimated recoverable value, if I say so. Here there can be uncertainty and so on, these estimates are not perfect, but the part of this debt that arises is paid for. The other thing, along with the claims, is the insurance transfer. These insurance companies have their own value. Obviously, these insurances are shares of companies, are real estate and so on. This company has five years of existence prescribed. One bank that's in trouble today should sell those shares quickly. Some banks are in great difficulty today also because the policy has blocked the sale of certain shares owned by these banks. This company has a clear mandate in this law to cash this insurance and has five years of time. It can wait a year, two years, when these stocks are worth more, and it gets some money to pay off the part of the debt that will start. And third thing, that's what the law says. In the share in which this capital investment management strategy is to be determined, we will also sell and finance these operations in that share. In the end, it can happen that, in the beginning, we will issue 4 billion guarantees and then in a few years, most or all of that money will be reimbursed through the recovery of claims, through the repurchase of insurance and through the purchase of banks that will also have more value after they are cleared. That's one thing. It is now said to say that this is ten times more expensive or three times more expensive – I do not know; perhaps at the Institute of Fran Ramovš it would be difficult to say this at any economic institute. Second thing. Why do we feel that this model – and this question has been raised several times – is more appropriate to transfer claims to an external institution? For a number of reasons. One reason is that at one point we recognize the dimension of the problem. We have estimated that the situation in the Slovenian banking system is such that we can talk about some very acute situation, which is at the edge of the break. Progressive solutions within banks with gradual recognition of claims are too slow. It must be said that the dimension of this problem is so great and that we are solving it in the fastest possible way. It is said that banks are cleaned in the quickest way by transferring these bad claims to a special institution. As we say, what is a beautiful mistake in this approach is that at the beginning, when we recognize the dimension of the problem, we have to issue so many guarantees and this creates a public debt. But like I said, over the years, this debt can be paid to a large extent. Third thing. We did not propose this law because we would have one bank in Slovenia that needs help. If we had one bank that needed help, maybe we could recapitalize it. Banka Slovenije’s regulatory action might be sufficient to get rid of this bank. Maybe we could go bankrupt. Maybe we could sell it to someone else, and he should be dealing with it. We don't have a bank problem. We have a problem with more banks in our banking system. We have a problem with the stability of the banking system. There's a problem in several banks, so we went to law school. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Do you want people running in the windows tomorrow if I answer that now? But I think we both know which banks I have in mind. In short, since we have a problem in several banks, some of these banks have been discussed in the National Assembly since we have a problem in several banks, we have established or are proposing a subsidiary mechanism with this law that solves problems in the banking system. This is not a mechanism for a single bank, it is not a mechanism for a specific bank with a name and surname and d. d. in the end, but a mechanism to achieve the stability of the banking system, to solve the acute problem that is currently in the banking system. The third thing that is very important is the question of how to deal with the economy, with the corporate sector. If you know – and I believe you know, we also had a meeting in the National Assembly about such a company. Companies in crisis today are indebted to many banks at the same time. It was usually just so-called syndicated loans, simply so that the companies had a little debt here, a little bit there. One bank, even if you wanted to, what you said earlier, restructure claims and replace, I don't know, capital, ownership in these companies and so on, one bank has a problem, even if you wanted to, if you were hoping to make decisions of this type, you couldn't solve an over-indebted enterprise. We have tried with some such problems to deal with, of course, within our powers. Our responsibilities in this area are about such that we can convene a meeting and blow people from bank to soul. That is about the kind of authority that we have — if they have it, of course. Look, at the table there were people from six, seven, eight, nine banks who should all coordinate at the same time on a decision to help a company in the same way. If we from three, four banks, probably the biggest, are to transfer these bad claims to this company, to this fund, one creditor to these companies, who will be leading and the rest will have to follow. This will enable a different, more efficient, more friendly, better way of solving the problem of corporate over-indebtedness. That is also why we are doing this because it is a mechanism that will enable us, on the other hand, to solve the problem of overindebted economies, not just the problem of bad bank balances, this is very important. The problem of overindebted economy cannot be solved by solving the problem of one bank; you solve it within the bank and so on. Nor is it true that good companies still receive credit. Everywhere I go to Slovenia, people from companies who are good, who have cash flow, who sell their products, who perform their regular activities, who also pay their bills, do not get credits from banks. Why don't they get it? Because if the bank stops the credit line to an entity that doesn't repay the loan, it's done nothing for its balance sheet. It is called a bank that wants to improve its balance sheet by reducing lending and reducing lending to those who still repay credit because it saves something there. That's what's the biggest problem, and that's why there's a credit crunch that's very painful. These are essential things, why we believe that this is a better way. However, I have already said that by example, the law also permits other forms of marriage. The law allows this fund to guarantee also for so-called dedicated companies within banks and also allows the fund to recapitalise banks if, on the basis of a review of the situation of a bank and also on the basis of the expressed interest of owners, private owners find that this is better for a bank. Let me answer the question, which banks. We have established in the law a procedure by which to determine which banks. Three things are important here, or two things are important: who can propose that a bank should be helped in this way and the standards and ultimately who decides. Who can propose? The Bank of Slovenia may propose to assist a bank in this way through this company. The Bank of Slovenia will be able to say that they have found, on the basis of reports, analyses, monitoring of the situation in the bank – probably on the basis of the measures they have already given them and that the banks or their owners have not followed them – that these banks cannot be resolved otherwise than by resolving their claim through this company; it is said by the measures that this company can carry out. However, the second possible proposer is this company alone and the third possible proposer will be the bank itself. This is very important! Bank of Slovenia alone. After talking to them, we included this possibility in the marriage because she said where you had non-discrimination. So the law couldn't say that we'd help this bank, this bank and this one, because that would be discriminatory. The law must be so written that some State aid is available to all if they meet certain conditions. These conditions, however, are written in the law: the importance of the bank for the stability of the financial system, the weight of the bad claims in the specific bank and the necessity to ensure the capital adequacy of that bank, according to what the regulator has determined, is said by the Bank of Slovenia. It is said that there is a procedure and then it decides on a proposal from the Commission, in which Banka Slovenije will also have its representatives, and in the end the Government. This, in my view, is also logical because the Government proposes and assumes responsibility. The last thing I want to explain is that when you talk about alternatives, one way or another, recapitalisation is not an alternative. It is very likely that, because some of the bank’s assets are overvalued, there will be a weakening at the time of the transfer, either the claim or the value of the assets, if the banks are still in possession of certain shares in their books at about the same value as they were when they were seized, there will have to be a weakening in this area. These weaknesses will result in additional capital needs for banks. So it's not necessary, as you think: we take a billion claims and we save a hundred million capital. Unfortunately, it's not that simple. The alternative – which the world is talking about and the countries have gone different ways, and also in different, sometimes combinations of these methods – is the rescue of a company within or outside the bank. But where countries have solved these problems within banks, they have done so by making a so-called dedicated company, separating claims from this company, and then the state has guaranteed losses on these claims. But we will do the same, not inside the bank, but in this institution. But I have already explained why it seems to us that it is better to do this at one institution for all the banks we will include, not for each bank individually. In terms of how much this operation costs, I wanted to explain it, but there's no big difference. The only difference is that if we went into guarantees within banks, then only gradually would it be possible for the bank to try to cash these claims on its own and find out that they were not, these guarantees would be cashed out for two, three, four years without asking how many of these bad claims are still available, how many guarantees will be cashed, etc. That's about what's happening to us at Sid Bank right now because of the guarantee scheme. Every year, for last year, I don't know how many millions, we have an unforeseeable obligation there in the budget, because we don't know how many guarantees Sid Bank has made will now be cashing out the banks. The law is so written that they practically do not have to go anywhere else, they can come first to us, directly to us, and we have to pay it back in eight days without being able to ask any questions about what these banks have done and what these debtors have done. So to say which model is cheaper, and to be so sure that something is 10 times more expensive, etc., I don't think it's true. I hope I've explained at least a few of these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u114	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u115	Colleagues and colleagues! I think the Minister has given some very important answers, but of course there is always what we want to hear and what we will hear about these things. I have a similar feeling as in, say, when it is always stressed that the Government must do something concrete to eliminate the credit crunch, but once a concrete proposal is made, it is only a matter of time before these things have changed. The fact is that this concept has been considered over the summer that this proposal is now before us. Today all the articles are open, the parliamentary debate, I think it's in the spirit of democracy, everyone can say what they want and discuss in any article, and then we have Tuesday when we make a certain complementary investment and finally accept these things. In short, for some urgent action, I think the timeframes are normal. Speaking of the current rehabilitation of our critical banks, a few words must also be said about responsibility. Someone's gonna have to answer for those things that happened. I am convinced that this system or this concept that we are proposing is much better for determining responsibility than for banks to solve these things within themselves, because they are more likely to respond with no surprising response. In the debate I'm going to say what I was going to say to my colleague Bratushek, I hope she understood me. I'm really tired of playing this game, who's more responsible, whether Janshev or Pahor's government. All I wanted to say to her is that she insists that Janša's government is responsible for everything from 2006 to 2008, and I proved this by means of papers that in critical times – in the supervisory board or bank administration – the people who were appointed by the previous left, the LDS government, the later governments [[...]] In short, I hope you understand. Once again: I wanted to talk only about the fact that the responsibility in some way bears the whole Slovenian policy, but not just one part. What my fellow Jew said about this concept of ours would be much more expensive than recapitalisation. We don't know if it's going to be more expensive, but we do know something, which is that recapitalisation doesn't work. Now ask yourself whether to insist on a concept that doesn't work, or whether to try with someone new who will, at least we hope and try to make it work. There are also cases from abroad – you have highlighted Ireland many times today. Read today's Finance, there's a very nice case in an interview explaining Ireland's situation. I recommend that you create your own opinion. But there are at least two cases from the '90s. In Scandinavia, where we were supposed to follow suit, Scandinavian countries were solving their banking problems with a bad bank; and this was a success. On the other hand, it did not happen in Japan and Japan left bad claims within their banks. But you all know that everyone marks Japan's 1990s as lost. So, you actually have cases where some system and some concept worked and some other concept didn't work. I think these are the essentials I've been meaning to say. As I said, we still have a lot of time to discuss today, and I believe we will make some smart and concrete decisions by Tuesday.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Replica mags. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u117	Thank Mr. Tonin for bringing me up. Unfortunately, I do not have such ambitions to be an important Slovenian expert in banking or finance, so I dared only to quote the words of a recognised Slovenian expert; an expert who is very seriously taken into account by all the professional public, but also by this point, politics in the National Assembly has not yet been able to spit on him, which he likes to do. His words are: "The difference between recapitalisation and a bad bank is at least one, but it is probably several times larger than another, i.e. than recapitalisation." So, honourable Member, let me repeat this. I have no ambition to teach you the economic issues of this country, but I have only read the opinion of an expert who enjoys the support that is indivisible in the Slovenian public until now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the floor. I was a member of the working group, and I had no feeling that the concepts were so different. I had a feeling for a long time about the working group's work to bring about harmonisation. Unfortunately, this has not happened, but I will tell you what my proposal was and why. For this proposal I have written to the Working Group that the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Maribor Credit Bank are being rehabilitated or recapitalised from the permanent European Stability Mechanism. Yesterday Germany also signed or ratified this stability mechanism and will be operational on 8 October. The reasons why this was my proposal; therefore, as the current debate by my colleague Tonin points out, because real recapitalisations have not been successful so far, but recapitalisation from the European Stability Mechanism would probably be successful because it is subject to different controls. And that's good. Second. It would be best to sell the bank even if it were for one euro because it would avoid taxpayers' money. This would avoid a major fiscal deficit. The budget money needed for the resolution of the banking system would, however, be directed towards new investments and development, support for the economy. Imagine a scenario to invest four billion euros in new investments to start the economy. I think this would be a more appropriate scenario. I also think that some of the forecasts are too optimistic, and I will give an example – unfortunately, the finance minister is not here right now. In the Fiscal Rule Working Group, scenarios were drawn up on how the deficit of the State budget would be reduced. Everyone has taken into account or predicted more or less positive trends, i.e. trends in growth. And two months later, we see that we have negative growth. Even then, I warned in writing that I would ask them to serve us with a scenario for possible negative growth. Obviously, it's hard to agree on who's right. True, you will have to admit that for 21 years, every authority claims that it has the right and the right solutions. Unfortunately, the results do not show this, and it would be good to hear and listen and actually find good solutions to rehabilitate the banking system. I don't think we can move forward because we can't hear each other. I also agree with the motioners that there should be a hurry, but if the law were to be put into the procedure on a regular basis, I think that it would have been completed quickly enough, including by the professional public, and I am a little confused, and I am sorry that it is so fragmented, obviously on one side of the opposition and the professional public – the Bank of Slovenia, the Association of Banks of Slovenia – on the other side of the proposal. This does not indicate that we could find good solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see there's still interest in the debate. So, I'm opening the application. The application shall be made. Nine panellists have been reported. The first one has the word "magic." Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u121	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I will protest once again the behaviour of the Vice-President who held the meeting earlier, and I am very sorry that she has done this today as she has done, because I also very much appreciate her and her entire work so far, not only in the National Assembly. I am so sorry about this event, and I think it was completely unnecessary. Second of all, I'm going to apologize to my colleagues who were with me on the finance committee yesterday because I heard I had a screaming voice. That's the kind of guy I have. Ladies, it's hard to replace him. If I were to perform yesterday as your colleague Pojbič did, I think he spoke with at least 80% of the volume more than I did, not to talk about movement and wave. I think Mr. Chairman of the Finance Committee would send me out of the hall. Let us respect one another, not be circumcised by the way we speak, for I am often the target of discredit, lies and so forth, and so on in the National Assembly. Then I can't even get a replica. If anyone was upset about my performance yesterday, what can I say, I apologize to him again today. Today's debate began with the words: "There were many events yesterday." True, there were many events yesterday, and only one, especially one, was highlighted, only one was the Committee on Finance. That's right. Unfortunately, you did not hear us when we wanted to tell you, to help you with professional arguments, not with opposition ones that count nothing at all, but with us were the Governor of Banka Slovenije, Mr Arhar of the Association of Banks, we had a few more texts from other experts, and unfortunately you were not prepared to listen to arguments that together we could find a solution to this biggest problem of Slovenia at this time. We agree here. Now I'm gonna start at the beginning, and that's the task force. On 13 August, Mr Šircelj, a working group on the management of bad bank claims met. Approximately this has been the case: the Ministry of Finance has presented various models for addressing poor claims, their advantages and shortcomings, and an impact assessment on public finances. It's from a record that's accessible to everyone. Then Mr. Shircelj asked: "By what value will the bad claims be tolerated, who determines it? Does the Ministry of Finance prefer certain ways? Spain has a long-term market value, and evaluation also depends on the advantages and disadvantages of models. The presentation of the MF was not neutral." That, Mr. Shircelj, is your word. And you won't believe that we're asking the same question today! Who, what, at what value? The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Krušec, said: "Every model has negative and positive characteristics. This also applies to the Agency. There is also no unique solution among financial experts or advisers. The advisers participating in Germany and Spain shall propose a separation. The problem is that the country is not the only owner. For example, KBC wants a solution within banks. Forced into solutions without a previous owner's consensus is not good." These are not the words of the opposition Members, but the Secretary of State of your government. Mrs Bratušek, I am alone, but she said: "The Secretary of State assures us that there are other alternatives. A solution will be adopted that will be contrary to the leadership of the Ministry of Finance." And hereafter: I understand," – again the same Mrs Bratušek – "that this is only one possible solution. If the resolution within the banks is no longer an option at the discretion of Mr Širclja, this working group has nothing left to decide on. If the SDS and other coalition parties hope to decide to resolve the agency without any calculations and consequences, they should do so, but also take full responsibility." It's a record. I hope he's publicly available, if not, I'll hang him on the website. And do not say that such a solution has been taken within the working group, while also stressing that along with the opposition! That's the first thing. Four solutions were presented, as said, and only one was rejected immediately at the Ministry of Finance. It was over the so-called guarantee scheme. Two different solutions related to the rehabilitation of banks within the banking system. Inside the banking system! And you have thought, without all or any analysis, that the one you have just chosen is the best. And you want us to follow you because that's what you think. Can you open your ears, listen to what we have to say, and then ask for constructive cooperation, call for unity, and so on? It can't be just one side! It can't be just one side, they always come together in conversation. Not that you put it on the table: take it or leave it, and then weep, for we are not constructive with you. What happened yesterday on the Committee on Finance – Mr President said it was going well, I will finally read; that last part was probably the most beautiful. Mr Kranjec said so, and this is a magnetogram: "We have been in contact with the Ministry of Finance, the last of these contacts was on Monday, where we made comments on the 4, 5, 6th draft of this law and were also of the opinion that we should continue to work on the draft law. This feeling of ours is still the same as it was on Monday, despite the fact that they are conversing, I think, different views and we also find that the amendments made by the parliamentary groups are going in this direction to improve the law. That's what I can say. So it seems to us that it would actually make sense that this law is still being discussed, that it is not being rushed, because we are afraid that the under-analysed solutions will later cause more problems than perhaps now the apparent slowdown of this process. Lawyers, legal services warn me that at least previous drafts are contrary to several laws, including the Banking Act, the Company Act, the Bond Act, and we do not exclude the possibility of constitutional disputes in the event that the law remains the way it was designed. I say I don't have a final review of these documents that came in today or yesterday late tonight, but even though I said it was improving and convening, there is still this danger." In short, he asked us to take the time and make the law right. Mr Arhar, who has also said a lot and has been mentioned many times today, but I will read only one of his sentences, and he also invited us, like Banka Slovenije, not to rush up or down any week if the solution is better, nothing will spoil everything you have done. "The bank is not self-service to go to it, and on the other hand, that we, all together as citizens, will deliver goods and one will only take them without pay." Those are the words of Mr. Arhar. Now, perhaps the most beautiful part for Mr President, of course, when we left the meeting, you voted in forty minutes, then thirty-six amendments. It seemed something like this: "I am putting Article 13 and the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups into the debate. I find that there is no debate, which is why we are voting. We're voting. I conclude the vote and note that the amendment was adopted by 10 votes in favour, no one opposed. Who wants to discuss Article 14 and the proposal for an amendment to the committee that was put on the table? I'm guessing that's not why we're voting. We're voting. I conclude the vote and note that this amendment was adopted by ten votes in favour, no one opposed it. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups. There is no debate, we vote. I conclude the vote and note that the amendment was adopted by ten votes in favour, no one opposed it." And so we could go to the end, I think, by article 36. Thus, respectable colleagues and colleagues look like your substantive debate on what we call the biggest Slovenian problem at this time. We're talking about four billion taxpayers' money. The Secretary of State said something like that before, when he answered, I think to my colleague, "Every claim is subject to assets and insurance that can be even greater than the claim." Yeah, well, why are we talking about this for five, six hours today if that's true? In short, you're trying to convince us that in the end it's going to be bigger than it's going to be at this point. If it is true that each claim is subject to assets, and this can be even greater than the claim, I do not know why we all explain that this is the biggest problem at this point. True, from 2006 to the end of 2011, I led the Directorate of State Budget. That's where I was first appointed by the Yang government. From what I hear, you're collecting such real, good, professional, appropriate personnel. I don't know why you're having so much trouble with me today. And once again, if you blame officials in this country for all the mistakes you've made, it's really bad for us. The Minister of Finance has already told one committee that policy is certainly responsible for the adoption of the budget. But it doesn't hurt you, and every time — it's no problem! Now I'm going to read you some information. Budget deficit at mid-year for the last four years. In 2009, it was 859 million, at the end of the year it was 960 billion. In 2010, a billion 370 at the middle of the year, at the end of the year a billion 900. In 2011 923, at the end of the year a billion and a half. In 2012 854 million, but you predict that at the end of the year only one billion. And that's the problem. If you go to the financial markets with these numbers, it's no wonder we don't get it. You're deceiving yourself. The Secretary of State's response when we talked about the implementation of this year's budget was that what will happen at the end of the year and we will see when the year ends. But remember that, and look for a few years ago, what was the dynamics and what you were predicting and what you were doing this year. And New Credit Bank Maribor – with pleasure! I told you yesterday, but today I'm going to say it again. Yes, I have been a member of the Supervisory Board since mid-2009 and 2010. I am responsible for my decisions, I have taken them with full consciousness, unlike perhaps some others who then do not remember what and how they voted. According to my assessment, the bank was already under-serviced the Slovenian economy, because, unfortunately, it also passed on several sins from the past. But now I'm gonna say again what I said on the board yesterday. Your member, Mr. Guzei, also sat with me in the supervisory board. This same gentleman today is the Executive Director of the New Credit Bank Maribor, which means or I imagine that the Supervisory Board has done excellent work. Because if he didn't, he wouldn't be appointed CEO of that same bank. So there is no problem, I am happy to explain to you, I cannot decide because they are business secrets, but I can tell you that most of the conclusions we have taken in the supervisory world have been taken by majority and not by voting. Not even a voice against in the vast majority of cases! You can, if you're going to point me out, I'm just asking you to always tell Mr. Guzei, so that this will be balanced. Four billion -- I hope so, but I don't know if I can believe we're aware of how much money that is. I said before, this is as much as in Slovenia in one year we give for the pensions of all pensioners; more than ten times as much as we give for all maternity payers, and a hundred times as much as we give for a free kindergarten, which you have started to reduce a little. And if opposition Members and Members are not appropriate, or if you do not allow them to consult with those who know more than we do, I do not know where and how and when and how such a coalition should still be involved in such an important topic. Like my colleague Frangež said before, I imagine I've read a lot about this, and I've read a lot more. It would be interesting to hear a journalist today if he stopped you outside and asked if you knew what you were doing yesterday after the procedure I had read before – in short, there is no debate, we are voting, ten votes, no objections; the next article, there is no debate, we are voting, and so on – it would be interesting to hear which one of you could say what you voted about yesterday and what you were accepting. In this case, all we wanted was for you to give us time to consult with those who know more than we do. But we are not, and the whole of Slovenia is obviously not worth it. Well, it's your way of doing things. All I'm asking is that at least you don't ask me to do this kind of work anymore. Of course, I will not support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The word has been given to you, sir. [[...]] Mag. Spread out, here you go, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mrs Alenka Bratušek has mentioned me at least four or five times today. I certainly don't need that kind of popularity. However, I think now, in accordance with Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure on Misunderstanding, etc., to say the following. Ms Bratušek first said that the Chairman of the Committee, in the opinion of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, would send her out of the Chamber if she spoke about 80% as much as Mr Pojbič. Mrs. Alenka Bratusek, you wouldn't. You always have a word on the board when you want it, you can always say what you want. Sometimes I may remind you if you want to talk when others say it, but otherwise I have no problem with it and I have no problem in cooperation if you actually have it. That was the first thing. That's how I think I'm a nice guy, and that's why I wouldn't throw you out of the hall. That's another thing. And once again, don't give me so much popularity, after all, when you're also talking about the working group. Look, I've got the working group logs here, too. They're all available after all. But something is true because you misunderstood me. I spoke, I think, when I spoke about the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party or in my performance, that the working group unanimously took this decision. No! No! I have said that the coalition, the coalition Members have accepted this in the working group and that the opposition is not here. I have already emphasised that, perhaps I have been misunderstood, so you have the replica of course. [[...]] With regard to all other matters, I certainly agree that it is necessary to listen to experts. Experts are always kind of divided. I'm glad you're listening to them, too. I'd like to say the following. We need to make suggestions. Continued quoting of others, quoting of votes on the committee, etc. — look, if anyone is interested, viewers and viewers can look at it, public broadcasts are, there's no problem at all that you're doing it so popular again. But it's effective. So from this point of view, of course, I am replicating this misinterpretation, as far as the rest of you are concerned, but I am, I think, still reported, and I'm going to say something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u124	Thanks, mag. Spread out. It's just been three minutes. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u125	Thank you very much. It's very difficult to talk to experts who know about finance and banking, but still. As an opposition Member, I have the right and duty to draw attention to mistakes that may occur to the government or coalition. Today it is evident that a fundamental mistake is that you do not want to listen to that good idea. And now, for a year now, somehow we've been together, I'm going to really give up, and it's almost meaningless that we're going to give you some suggestions, and we need to tell our citizens and citizens in particular. Look, I'm going to say it all plastic, because I'm not that professional. The last time a man came to me, he said to me, "My mother was receiving social support, and when she died, I had to sell this apartment because I was unemployed myself. Now I have to give back what my mother got." "What is it," I said, "then it's a loan, not social support." Look, today we're talking about this tycoon who borrowed the money, they can't pay back, and now it's going to a bad bank. A bad bank means that the taxpayers will pay it back, or we will all pay it back. What's that? That's social assistance! My dears, that is absolutely not the way to do it! I am convinced that when I speak of responsibility, it will begin to look for irregularities that have been, how these loans have been granted. Let's get this thing started. Here, Mr Gorenak and the rest of those famous researchers and investigators should start quickly and immediately. It's probably a very long list. Unpaid loans need to be found and immediate action is needed here. But that is what I would tell citizens and citizens. The government will set up a bad bank, and it'll cost as much as it costs. I won't be there for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I am pleased that the occupation here in this hall has been relatively good or above average since we began to consider this point or this law. You're telling the opposition that that's how we're saving the country. I'm going to take two points out of this and thank you for knowing that we're saving the country. Secondly, to rescue her, she is a perfectly normal rhetoric of the opposition and I accept her. That's what we're all saying. We're all aware that this country needs to be saved. We certainly have different concepts in this regard. If our concepts were the same, I guess all of us 90 would make up one coalition. But that was when the coalitions, such and different, composed and did not come together, that we compared our concepts of saving the country and found that some do not belong together. For example, New Slovenia has made it clear to the President of positive Slovenia, with all due respect that we are not going with them because of different concepts, because of different values and Mr Jankovic has also accepted this with approval and with respect. Solution. When, in the position of the New Slovenia Group, I called on all of us to make every effort to make the best of the solution to this country's solution, I also thought of my respected colleague and former Prime Minister, Mr Borut Pahor. It really seems fair to me that he told here what we should all take as a teaching that he simply misjudged the situation of Slovenian banks. I add that he probably meant state banks, because we also have extremely good private banks in Slovenia, the problem is state banks. This problem and this wound have been healing for 20 years and we cannot heal it because we have simply not privatized these matters. Once this is private property, it is certain that these financial institutions will also operate well. What happened to us last fall – the Slovenian state did not receive any more credits and was forced from last autumn to save; and this is cruel. It is cruel that we must adopt laws that cut many, but it is also good that we are forced to rationalise some state institutions. To continue with the rescue. True, everyone here has his own experts and everyone quotes an expert, domestic or foreign, in the part where this expert answers. Coalition of that item, opposition of the second sentence. A colleague of mags. Alenka Bratušek thank you for reading quite a part of the magnetogram of the debate of the Governor of Banka Slovenije, and if we listened carefully, he also said that these solutions, improvements, that is to say, amendments, are being converted to improve the solution. True, he said that perhaps a little less hasty should be done, but when he said that trends in state banks are bad – what does that mean? This means that the situation in banks is declining over time, which means that it is extremely important how long we wait for these banks to be resolved. And here, too, I agree with my colleague, Pahor, who says that if there is not, or until the state bank is restored, there will be no economic progress that long. If we listen to foreign eminent guests coming to us at the Blaze Forum; for example, Mr OECD Secretary General, Mr Angel Gurria, welcomed the efforts of this government, as colleague Alenka mentioned it when we met and met with the IMF delegation. It was run by Mr. Antonio Spilimbergo. Among other things, he said that if someone asked him where to put the money in 2008, he would say that his answer would be: Slovenia. Yeah, that's what he said, 'cause I'm not the only one who heard it. Look, today you're threatening the public, your colleagues, you're talking about 4 billion taxpayers' money. It's just a state guarantee. With this law, we will not take taxpayers 4 billion. Let us be honest in our deliberations. And let me tell you something else: me and my colleagues in the New Slovenia Group will be happy to study every amendment, including Positive Slovenia, with all our attention. My colleague Bratušek – I don't know how many times I turn to her, obviously we have worked quite well in the 2004-2008 mandate – so much to talk about a hole created in the 2004-2008 mandate as if she had forgotten, as if she had not been to the closed session of the Finance Committee and the closed meeting of the National Assembly – because I will not say everything, I know what I can say – but there we received information from the first banker in Slovenia that this credit expansion was present everywhere during that period. Nor did the ECB have any instrument, but today it has a special body to monitor macroeconomic trends in the euro area in Europe. Is it then time for me to adopt a law, ladies and gentlemen, which would have the title Stop – lending is forbidden. Please! And one more thing. It's been hard for me, and it was hard for me last night, too, when I got a low blow from my colleague Alenka as a coalition member under the belt. She may not have been present all the time, she ran a lot from the meeting room, but I will say, as a micro shareholder of the New Credit Bank of Maribor, I am responsible for my money, or the change, because I am responsible to my family, and I will present the bill to the members of the Supervisory Board. I'll show you. And this one will be mass. That's what my voters are going to do, too, asking me what's going on in New KBM. I'm not gonna fuck 'em. I'm just gonna show 'em to the law. The members of the Supervisory Board, ladies and gentlemen, have a substantive responsibility. I'll put out the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u129	Nice greeting, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry of Finance! Today we are listening to some of the concerns that the situation in banking in Slovenia is not even as critical as it seems; some of the issues of how to hurry slowly, despite the fact that we agreed already in June that September is the last period when some measures should also be taken in the area of bank recovery. As far as I and my constituents are concerned, I think that the Slovenian banking system is more like a tragedy than an encouraging condition. I think today, during this debate, a number of Slovenian taxpayers or taxpayers, that I won't let anyone go, grab a wallet, look, they're mostly empty, and when they go, they see that they can't actually get money. The average Slovenian citizen, when hearing the word bank, loans, interest, is likely to be very weary in these times, and in the beginning to illustrate some examples of how unsustainable the situation is in Slovenian banking. On the one hand, we have an older couple, they come to the dormitory, they want to switch cars after fifteen years, get something more modern so they can retire to the sea sometime. They come to the bank, they calculate – respectable sir, ma'am, they can't get credit. We have a young family who chooses to build a house — no longer building a house with 300, 500, or more squares, but a small one - team house. They come to the bank, they calculate – sir, ma'am, you're underpaid, we can't give you credit. We have entrepreneurs, he wants to buy some kind of machine, CMC or something. He comes to the bank, he says, look, I'd like to create a new added value, maybe hire someone else, calculate his condition – sir, your condition is inappropriate, you don't get credit. You have some tourist worker who wants to upgrade his tourist facilities, wants to redecorate rooms, wants to redecorate another matter, comes to the bank and again to the same gentleman or lady they say – respected worker, no credit. This is the majority situation in Slovenia. Therefore, I do not understand all those who say how it is possible to get credit, there is no problem in Slovenian banks. Mistake! Problems are, of course, unless, of course, those who are so fortunate that they don’t even need credit or one phone call or receive millions of credits in their eyes. Then they speak with ease or over their thumb about some national interest, while these same taxpayers who do not have the opportunity to obtain credit happily recapitalize our banks; today we have already invested over a billion in them — and what do we have from them? Nothing. Or I think there's a lot of us even minus. We are talking to a flat rate of ten million, twenty million, one hundred million, and the average Slovenian citizen does not even have a thousand euros to come from a month to month. So, respectable, respectable! We need to pour ourselves some clean wine, the current banking situation is such a big deal, and I don't think he's a hero in Slovenia who can easily say that this is a good situation. When I talked about national interest or this recapitalisation of banks, let me talk about responsibility. I don't care who the governor was or who are members of the boards of directors, left, right, upper, lower, ours, yours, it doesn't matter at all; it's important that someone answers! I think we should start here at the top. We have former Governors of the Bank of Slovenia, we have the current Governor, and when I talk to these people who don't get credit, I think the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, as the supreme supervisor of the banking system in Slovenia, is no longer trusted by many Slovenian citizens and citizens. For me, too, a large portion of the credit that his function has brought has already lost. Interestingly, the former Governor of Banka Slovenije was awarded a prize because, I will say, he left various holes, even received the award of becoming Minister for Development. This development almost buried us. Different management is needed in Slovenian banks, more responsible, more rational and more sober. We urgently need the stabilisation or treatment of our banking system, and this law is one of the first basics on which we can build to ensure some rehabilitation of the banking system. The rehabilitation of the banking system, however, means more efficient and faster assistance to the economy. At the moment, the Slovenian State Bank does not support the economy, but in many cases helps to destroy it. Like I said, rolling the blame for back, who's responsible, who's not responsible, who's responsible, won't solve this situation. Improperness needs to be sanctioned and I think it is everyone's wish, whether we are politicians, both the police, the prosecution or the judiciary. Although I do have a feeling, in these days when we are talking a little more intensely about the banking system in Slovenia, that some of the current situation fits. The first condition to reverse this spiral in which we are is to cut or tear these hunters apart. As I said before, someone gets a million in good looks, and another citizen of this same country, our country, doesn't get 10,000 euros for some smaller bridge credit, that's wrong, and that's unacceptable for some normal European country. In the past, I think they have deliberately exhausted or robbed the Slovenian banking system. They were bad guards, and this crisis that we're facing has actually put all this misery of regulation on the table. As I reviewed the law, I think the law is good. There are still some amendments to the amendment, so that we can improve this law; so that we can provide the Slovenian economy with a new or brighter future. I like it very much, because in my opinion, very well-built fuses are being built in, in the future, in the Slovenian banking system, there will be no such anomalies that have occurred in the past. Of course, the easiest thing is to say SDS and John Janša is to blame for everything. But with respect and respect, such talk of our banking system will not save you. So I call on the opposition, or all those experts who have some intention, how to hurry slowly, if we're fast, we're too fast, if we're slow, we're too fast again. Apparently, some people don't like it. So I call on all those sober, enough waiting, enough cheating, something has to be done, and this law is one of those important points that we can do something smart for Slovenian banking. I'll be happy to support the amendments and the marriage myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In my opinion, there is no one in this room who thinks that a matter has to be brought down just so that the opponent does not succeed. I object to that. I think it is necessary to make a decision today in order to resolve this, I will say, a mystery that has been dragging on in Slovenia for too long. But it's called an economic crisis. I have to say, our concepts are different, and there's nothing wrong with that. We think that the concept that you accept this moment is wrong and that it will be taxpayers, which is the most important, significantly more expensive than if we did the rehabilitation of banks using our model, which is to make an alternative such that within banks we are dealing with bad claims. I'll explain some things. One of your answers is that it will make it easier to determine the responsibility for the bad loans offered by overseers or administrations. I don't believe this agency is going to be the one to sort of determine who gave the bad loans or who didn't. This agency will be influenced by politics, whether we want it or not. That's what the law says. Will daily policy determine who is more responsible and who is less responsible? We have the rule of law in some way, civil actions, criminal actions and the responsibility of the people responsible. Because we're going to put this bad claim in the agency, we're not going to find responsibility first. Ladies and gentlemen, you have replaced the supervisors and replaced the administrations of these banks, NKBM, NLB. These are not related to former supervisors and previous administrations and can easily determine responsibility within banks. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that the economic policies you have been leading over the past year do not lead in the right direction. It's not my imagination, it's not my opposition attitude or my opposition attitude, but it's a state like it is in the country. The economy does not recover despite all the economic measures you have taken. Because of the savings, because of the ZUJF, because we only cut people, people spend less and less money in the budget. We've made a mistake somewhere, and once we admit it, we'll be able to get it out faster. That's not the way it works with things like that. But the easiest way to accept Slovenian holding and things is to concentrate in some way so that you can sell them more easily. But you only sell once in your life. I'm very skeptical here myself. The Americans who caused this economic crisis and the banking crisis – Jože, there was only private capital. Lehman Brothers are private, but they've thrown the world's economic system out of course. But the state of America has decided to help them in such a way as to evaluate all their affairs in a fair manner and to ensure that they go for resources around the world. If they do not receive these resources, the state of America will in some way help them with recapitalisation. All these banks, the survivors, have somehow done so, and now the banking sector in America is recovering. Europe and Slovenia do not know or do not want to do this. When we talk about evaluation, he said earlier to France, Breznik, that it is not important that the market does its job. There's nothing the market can do. It is very important how, in what way, we will properly evaluate all these claims. This is the most important thing! But who's going to evaluate them? As Andrej Shircelj says — who will? Banks? Banks will want to have a high price. Or an agency that wants a low price? In the end, taxpayers will pay. And, Jože, the minister has made it clear that four billion will have to be guaranteed. And he made it clear that this was going into public debt. 4 billion euros, if we give the guarantee immediately, it goes to public debt [[....]] [[advertising from the hall]] But he's in public debt! Remember what was at TEŠ 6, what we were saying if we gave the guarantee, we would do nothing. It's the same! All we have to do is keep the same fire. By doing this, we'll make 4 billion holes. And go ahead. I am warned by some in banks dealing with this problem, and in banks, domestically, they do not know what will happen. Just in case, I'll tell you when the bank decides what are the bad claims and puts them on the agency, it'll give you a segment of construction. She's not gonna just put those companies that went bankrupt. She'll also give up companies that are still alive, that have big problems. We don't know what a bad claim is. And then what will happen? Who's gonna be monitoring these live companies at this agency? Who's gonna monitor their cash flow? Who's gonna take their insurance? That's why people will be needed at the agency, because it probably won't be mastodon, where thousands of people would be employed, this agency will ask for a bank, the bank will do some business for this agency, and put up a commission or bill. And what did we do? These questions will be so many when this law comes into force that it is impossible. We think that it would be significantly better and better to make a system within the bank that deals with these poor investments, rather fairly and fairly, because it would also make it easier to obtain some external resources. This is our salvation and our view of how to save us. Of course, the state should recapitalise the bank. You can't do that without it. With a billion euros and a billion euros. Since Mr Minister said earlier that we will now give 4 billion guarantees, we will see how the matter will work, if necessary, and we will give it back from this company and recapitalise the bank. That's not how it works. I would ask the Minister: Why was he the one who said that a bad bank was a bad solution five months ago? So he wrote: "Bad bank is a bad solution this time. The key problem to be solved is how to get fresh money in the economy through banks." But this same minister today claims otherwise! Since there is no minister, the Secretary of State would ask: Who in this agency will deal with bad claims that are not bad claims because they did not die are still alive. Who's going to do all these procedures? Who's gonna be monitoring these companies so we can't just take them to bankruptcy for each other, just like we've been doing for the last six months? Mr. Krušec, I really want to know who's going to do this. If people don't work at the agency, they say they'll be running people at banks. And one more thing. The agency will be political. And now it doesn't matter if it's Janez Janša, or Borut Pahor, or I don't know who. I hope they don't call this agency from Gregorčič and say that this company needs help, this company doesn't have to help and so on. That's the biggest problem, and that's what we're afraid of. The Agency will be a political institution in order to employ political personnel that are not experts in the banking system. Today, every amendment can be amended – at least for most of us in the Social Democrats, we feel that this concept does not drink the water that we now have before us. And if it really is that important, if it is the most important thing, as Mr Pojbič said, a project of this government, then we should take a week or two weeks of time. I have little knowledge myself, but when I read all of our economists, and I read Mr Kranjec, who is so guilty that it came to this matter as it has come, it freezes me. It freezes me how the government can thus adopt such an important law, because in the end we will pay taxpayers and no one else. And our concern is that taxpayers pay as little money as possible. I will not support this marriage, but I will put the hat down if, as a result of this marriage, when it is adopted, I have no doubt that the economy will receive more money in the coming months than it does now. And I'm afraid of that, and it's not, I'll say, a lifeguard, that this kind of rehabilitation is going to bring the economy back to life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think colleague Matjaž Han thought well-intentioned when he said that I said that these bad claims would be assessed or evaluated by banks. Anyway, even if we look at the magnetogram, I don't think that's how banks are going to value their own claims. They will be able to give some value, which will be sure or certainly verified by assessors who will be specialists for each area. And certainly, if the bank appreciates this, there could be a lot of problems here. So this is not my thesis, nor is it my opinion that it will be a decisive institution that already actually values these claims and has them in its bookkeeping balance sheets. Second. Actually, it's not a replica. It's whatever I'm saying. Here you have just confirmed that in fact people from banks are calling and are actually against this system mainly because this system is much more transparent and much easier to identify responsibility. I don't think it's the banks who call the employees who are behind the cash registers, but probably other people are calling today and trying to somehow influence different solutions. If that is not the case, Mr Han – I see that you are holding the hand – I apologize. However, I certainly think that the auditors will also bear a special responsibility with regard to the evaluation itself. Lehman Brothers was mentioned; one of the great audit houses, Arthur Andersen, also collapsed when Lehman Brothers collapsed. You don't have that on the market anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u134	Procedural? In accordance with Article 70, concerning the debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think it would be good for you to give your word to the representatives of the Government, to the Secretary of State, Dr. Krusec, to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u136	He's already raised his hand. You're the only one who beat him to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u137	Yeah. But I will be really grateful that I would actually be in favour of the Slovenian public, because we already know that the guarantee does not mean a direct burden on taxpayers, because then I am twice happy that I voted against the guarantee law for TES 6, because otherwise, if you misinterpreted it, already today Slovenia and Slovenians were charged with 440 million euros for TES 6, but thank God they are not. I also hope that, even though I am now reading in the media, in the last days again, they will not be frightening things. I'd like to ask you, Madam Vice President, to consider my proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u138	Dear Mr Horvath, if you would know that this is all you have to say. Dr. Krušec has already raised his hand twice, and every time there was a procedural matter that had an advantage. That will certainly give him the word of Dr. Dejan Krušec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u139	Thank you very much. In the absence of the Minister, I would like to clarify a few things, first of all, regarding public debt. It is true that the State guarantee will be considered a public debt, but this increase in public debt will be temporary. So it's not going to be a deficit, it's the first thing that matters. However, the second point is that since claims are being transferred with the insurance to be sold, these bonds will also be repaid from this title and the public debt will be reduced from this title. It's just a construction. It is said that the final increase in public debt is much lower than or equal to the maximum amount of four billion. Of course, it depends on the price at which the insurance of these claims is sold. The following matter, live companies or companies that still operate, are in over-indebted. Of course, as the Minister has already mentioned, one part of the purpose of this company is to also repay over-indebted companies and thus not go bankrupt. The company can do much better because it combines more banks' loans and has greater bargaining power in restructuring these debts. It is essential that the company does not otherwise have the purpose of lending these companies, but after the conversion of the debt work into capital, the company can then take this capital share and decide on further steps. As far as price or valuation is concerned. It is essential that, as you have already rightly concluded, if the price is too high, the owners are overly assisted and the state aid is illegal. If the price is too low, the bank's assets will be damaged. It is said that an appropriate price should be found, or, as the rules of the Economic Commission for Europe call it, a real economic value. The main point is that the company has 5 years to sell off the insurance that was collateral for claims. If the bank would like to gain transparency immediately, it should sell these insurances immediately. However, since many markets are currently insolvent due to the high economic crisis, this price would be lower than the real economic value. It is said that they would cause a larger capital hole or capital flaw in banks if they forced banks to sell insurance immediately, it is said, to sell apartments rather than to transfer them to a company that has only some time to cash these insurance. This is also the idea that the company actually has more time available and minimizes the capital requirement for banks from this title. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Han. What do you got? Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u141	I don't know if it's procedural, but maybe then I'll check in and ask the Secretary of State one important question. And I'm not going to break the rules of procedure, so I'll check in later.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u142	Okay. Given that I also realized that it was not properly understood, I would have given you this option. Okay. We are moving on to the next debate. No worries, so far everyone has been given a chance to replicate, but I suggest that in the right tone as much as possible. So far, that's what's going on. Mrs. Maria Plevčak has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. I listen to these and other concerns of the debaters, especially those who have been in Parliament for a long time, who also know many things that have happened in the background, but I would like to touch the direct business of the banks and the credit crunch that has arisen. The credit crunch is not limited to companies; it also covers the private sector, as today a small craftsman does not receive credit regardless of whether it may be needed for an environmental activity or for an activity to improve the environment. Reduced purchasing power also affects much higher unemployment. Who's the culprit here? We are talking about banks today – who owns the banks? This is the country, because all banks are in the hands of the state, this is said to be the country's fault in addition to the bankers. These are the governing structures, the policy involved. I hope that now, with the proposal for a law on measures to strengthen the stability of banks, we are a step closer. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the things that disturb us in the pension group in question, particularly the irregularities in the privatisation process, and we suggest that these things do not become obsolete, that these things are resolved, and that all the funds obtained illegally by the assets found by the audit are fully seized by the owners of the banks. To those owners or to those who have acquired funds and thus increased their assets in real estate or in assets in accounts anywhere abroad to seize them, and to prove themselves in the evidentiary process, where their property and property come from. I think we used to have a commission that identified the origin of the property, but all that was left was on paper. For 20 years, we have wasted the fact that those who had the key in their hands were using the banks, and we are in the state we are now in. I believe that the model of the law before us today is not optimal, but I hope, nevertheless, that we will take a few steps in a positive direction; that we will approach resolution as soon as possible; and that, if certain mistakes are made in this law, we will correct them immediately in agreement – so white, black, green, yellow, whatever we are in this House – and that we will all feel together the effects of what we are doing today, what we are talking about today and what we want to accept in this House. However, I certainly think that the banks and the state are responsible for the situation. The consequences are borne by all citizens, the inhabitants of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Raiffeisen Bank, BKS Bank, UniCredit Bank, Banka Volksbank, Intesa from Kopra Short, some names of foreign banks. Does this law on bank debt management, i.e. bad loans, also apply to these banks? You too? Really? Well, I'm sorry – thank God not! Not on them. Why not? Because these banks are not in any financial crisis and, as long as they have bad loans in their portfolios or they have bad loans, they will mostly not have them. Who are we dealing with? We operate mainly with state banks; even more, this law refers to, of course, the 40 % market share of the New Ljubljana Bank and also to others from the Bank to the New Credit Bank of Maribor and so on. So, it's about dealing with bad loans. How was that possible? Mainly: entrepreneurs, medium-sized enterprises, smaller businesses, espies, citizens and so on will not be on this list of those who have received so-called weak or unsecured loans without insurance. The main thing on this list will be those who have received credit, not by economic logic, but by the logic that has already been mentioned by the foreign banks that are operating with us. So, credits that they got based on phone calls, orders and so on by uncles from behind. Do you remember the statement by Binet Kordez? He said, "I got a good name loan." However, some of us do not have a good name and some of us, at least some of us — yes, some of us do not have a good name at home, and I agree with that. But at least some [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u146	Mr. Pukšič, no offense to anyone and to evaluating who has a good name and who doesn't. Please discuss this properly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u147	I haven't named anyone yet, but I've been thinking about a lot of things. So we are clear, Madam Vice President, and at least leave me alone here because I have done nothing against the Rules of Procedure and I have not offended anyone. However, I’m sure that I can’t come to the bank alone and get no credit or credit — if some think I have a bad name — my name. As I have, this has been told five times by voters and voters at the state and five times at the local level. That way you don't get your head too white. The fact is, they came for such loans to entrepreneurs, companies that did not have good programmes because they did not have good collateral for these loans. In fact, nothing, except that they had those who telephoned; that is, politically sounding names. That's me! How was it possible for Nova Ljubljanska banka, Nova Kredittna banka Maribor to give credit for something that is not? How? For the construction of the Stožice, for the construction of the wreckage, which will be paid with it as if the premises would surrender and pay rent. How is that possible? Of course, it is only possible, as has already been said in public, that the president or mayor then, Mr Zoran Jankovic, took the phone, went to the Ljubljana Bank and lobbied. That's what he confessed to himself. That is why we are dealing with this today, and that is why we are in economic straits today. This is why banks today cannot and do not lend to those good projects that create new jobs. Why is there no economic growth? Yeah, because we couldn't get two to two and a half billion euros extra! But some people today tell us what and how we should and why we don't listen to you and you're right. I told you yesterday that of these 22 years you have spent exactly two thirds of your time with those who are mainly in opposition today, even in power. How did you manage? Things have been very clear lately. Even more. I think that in the previous term it was said that the government or I think that even Dr. Križanič, Minister of Finance, has somehow set up his good name for getting credit right for the Stožice, which is today where he is, and one of those who helped turn this billion-dollar hole into a banking system. In this country we have already rehabilitated banks: through the agency, now this bad bank is being built, several times we have recapitalised it, and all of this went to taxpayers. Those who think or warn, I agree with you on how management of this poor property will be, that there will be no matter which is worth 100 units then sold under a table for five or six units, as now skeletons fall out around bankruptcy managers, connections with judges and so on. In short, such warnings, given the experience we have and are coming, are, I believe, well-intentioned. The fact is, there will also be more to be done by the law enforcement authorities and everyone else. If the legislation does not allow them to do so, we also need to amend legislation here. In fact, I completely don't understand, and the citizens of this country probably don't, in this state as we are, that some Mr. Shujitsa, who is on vacation in the United States or whatever, is waiting for our investigators to return home; either Jovanovič or I don't know who else is. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u148	Dear Mr Pukšič, I would like to ask you politely to discuss point 3a of the Proposal for a Law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, an urgent procedure. I respectfully ask you to focus on this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u149	Thank you very much, and thank you very much for warning me, because I am now sure that I was talking about Shujika, about Jovanovich, about Toplek, not yet, about Kovacic. Were they merchants for ceramic tiles or were they working in banking? I am also interested in Mrs Bratušek's cooperation with the President of the Supervisory Board, Mr Toplek, who "retired from Taluma" and acted as Chairman of the Supervisory Board at the time when we warned the Minister and also the then Prime Minister. Madam Vice-President, I am talking about this and to begin with, I read Article 1 of this amended proposal for a law on the measures of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to both society and the Banks' Stability Fund. At least you guys up there could listen to me. But it's true that some people today can tell you a lot about how and what you would do, you know, you can protest here today, you want to help very generously, but you know, in the end, I'm going to say thank you so much for your help, what you know, you showed when you were in three years of eight billion debt, we built out of that road, we made 17 billion debt. So citizens and citizens of this country, you really don't need your help or you'll do the most good if you don't do anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. You probably didn't get it right before. You said before, "there's quite a few here that don't have a good name." That's why I stopped you, and I said I'd beg you not to be offended. Because you said you didn't hurt anyone — you practically insulted all of us, maybe yourself. We are moving on to the next debater of mags. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u151	Thank you so much for saying that again. Given that there has already been a lot of talk here today, especially about how to resolve bad bank claims, I am, after all, pleased with the impression that Mr Vogrin had from the Bank Recovery Working Group when he said that there were certainly not as many differences in bank resolution as there are today in that working group. Today is a model of bank resolution. This model means that bank claims will be resolved in a special institution and so have other countries. Germany was mentioned to have saved or saved banks in this way. It was mentioned, Mr Židan mentioned that she had given 11% of the gross social product for recapitalisation. That's right. And set up two bad banks and bailed out claims separately from banks. Today we also mentioned how much we gave for the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank in Slovenia, and we should look at what the results are, it can be done, it can be a matter of a seminar assignment, what the recapitalisation was, what the profits were and how much dividends were paid to the state or owners. We'll probably figure out that it was a negative result. This bank was recapitalised with state money. Such a system of resolution of bad claims in banks, in order to continuously recapitalise itself, does not go into infinity. It's not endless because the money for recapitalisation is direct taxpayers' money. The taxpayers expect from this bank, in addition to having high-interested deposits and as low-interested loans as possible and in addition to stability, whether it is state property, if it can also be silver or gold for someone to have some of it. But he's not, but he's not 20. That's why he doesn't have dividends. That's what's actually true. Therefore, in recent times, as said by counterpart Jerko Čehovin in the case of Primorje, he does not play his role. The question is who does not play his role in these cases: or the bank because he does not get certain guarantees or the owners. The owners are also those who have to recapitalise their business if they are not doing well. And when we talk about the state bank, then we say that the state should recapitalise. When we are talking about a private, private company, we are not talking about the whole voice here: this person and this person, the owner or owners of this company and this company, if you want Primorje, should be recapitalised. In some cases, we're two-faced here. In some cases, private companies also show the country how the state bank should recapitalise a private company. It is probably a question of what the guarantees will be, the bank will be able to have a bad claim under this heading, some already have, and the state will cover it again with recapitalisation or taxpayers will be covered by recapitalisation. And now, in these two cases, if I speak, we're in a closed circle. The State Bank gives loans to private companies with poor guarantees, these state banks give these bad claims arising from these loans – therefore they have to reduce their adequacy, they have to correct their balance sheets and then we get back to the state's recapitalisation account. Sorry, but there is something about the Slovenian banking system. So it is difficult to say from this point of view that the recapitalisation itself is the one that will save the Slovenian banking system. It is true, however, that this decision establishing a specific company for the management of claims does not preclude recapitalisation. And that's what the law says. This means that if you want these credit folders, you will also be looking at a third party and examining and assessing and demanding responsibility. In this case, this company. And this company can authorize someone else, an expert, to do it for her. I agree with Mr Stepišnik when he says and quotes Mark Kranjec that the economy is sub-capitalised by 50%. After all, I am very interested in his economic consolidation, which he was talking about, but unfortunately we have not heard enough here. I hope we'll hear that one day. And if we are talking about the hole in the banks created in 2006 and 2007, and with a great deal of scale, we say that this was during the time of the government of Mr Janez Janša, it is also important to say who led the Bank of Slovenia at the time. Because Banka Slovenije has all the mechanisms under the Banking Act to stop any excessive lending. One such mechanism is that the state withdraws its deposits from business banks — at that time, not today. I could do that. According to Banka Slovenije, she did not do so at the time. This would reduce credit activity. And we know who was governor by 2007, we know who was governor after 2007: by 2007 mag. Mitja Gaspari, after 2007 Dr. Marko Kranjec. That's how all these mechanisms existed. The government could have replaced the supervisors of state banks during that period, could have replaced the administrations at that time, but it didn't. In addition to the European Central Bank in Frankfurt, monetary policy is also governed by the Bank of Slovenia. And Banka Slovenije could, but did not, replace all the administrations of all Slovenian banks, if that is the case. Well, as I know, at least not publicly, she hasn't changed any of them; even those banks that have very big problems today. Thus, in the time of the government of Mr Janez Janša, the regulator was the bank; and here everyone has his own responsibility. When we talk about this, we should also say this — at least I think — that this would be the case, if you wanted to, in a fair way. Can we determine today's liability for all these loans? You can, but you can't! The Governing Councils are those who determine responsibility, and after all, the congregations of banks are those who determine the responsibility of the supervisory councils, but in certain cases this has happened when the administrations or the supervisory councils have not received a confidant around the congregations, and when this has not happened. Of course, it is known who is concerned or who will determine criminal responsibility. Also here is the day to answer the question of how long the institution will work, what it will do, and so on; in fact, the answer is already that it is determined that it will work for five years. Of course, it is hard to imagine that this institution will only sell by force, but that a certain asset, if you want real estate or anything, will make it more valuable. On the part of the opposition, we hear that we do not have an analysis of the situation and that we do not know what we are doing, in fact, because we are doing this in our minds without adequate analysis and so on. The memory does not fool me, and the Governor of Banka Slovenije spoke to this high assembly at the July session. The Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, with the entire team, came to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. All information on the state of the banking system was provided at these closed meetings. And it's structured by individual pools of banks, if you want. The figures were: the size of the bad claims — according to three methodologies — an estimate of the capital adequacy of individual banks was given, the results of the tests were said to be safe, liquid, insolvent. That was the last time. That's why I don't feel like it, and I don't think it's true that we're doing this without analysis and without any grades. After all, we have public data from Banka Slovenije, where we can actually look at and analyze the entire business of the banking system. As a result, it is obvious that we are working without analysis, unreal to me, and in this sense we cannot talk about it. Speaking of the method for banks to do so themselves and when Mr Han also quoted Mr Arhar's debate or in the same sense said that they did so – in short, they did so in a foreign bank in 2008. That is what Mr Arhar said at the meeting of the Committee on Finance. Yeah, why didn't they do it in state banks? But what they do on their own is not a matter of the National Assembly, it's not a matter of the government, it's a matter of the administration and supervisory council of the bank, whatever. I do not imagine that we will allow ourselves to be influenced by banking by the National Assembly; so that we will determine them to do what they can do on their own. However, because they have not done so and because the credit crisis is getting worse and the banking crisis is also getting worse, this law is actually an intervention in the fact that banks will resolve these bad claims through a special company that will manage these claims. That is why I do not see many open questions; after all, the matter is very logical, very logical, very transparent. It is also very transparent because all acts to be issued under this law will be public. Much more than the acts that the business banks have today, where they have the same things written, but are misled as business secrecy. They're listed there as business secrecy. Because of this, and because of other matters that have already been said here and also explained by the Ministry of Finance or Government, I will support this law. I think this is the most appropriate solution for dealing with bad loans or bad bank claims today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I haven't been here the whole time. Have you been mentioned? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u153	Thank you so much for saying that. We're not salon people, we're from the economy, and we say, we see to the end, we don't talk. But I know you always want a solution to what we're talking about. So that we can actually show some cooperation, I will now explain this economic consolidation to you. But you've read your marriage very badly because it's resolved in Article 10, but I'll explain anyway. Where an undertaking, when previously interpreted as being well-exported, developmental and competitive, has a high added value and is indebted, has a humane, developmental, investment potential to increase economic growth and to convert its equity share by credit, it may do so by doing so with the bank where it has the credit, or a tripartite, with a contract with this new company – DUPT or whatever the investment agency is called. The bank transfers the loan to the investment, the agency with the company conventions the loan with the equity. However, this can be permanent and then the agency can sell this equity share, it can be temporary, for a period of one year, two years, and it is possible that during that period of time the company may relieve itself of the payment of the loan and start new investments, employ new people. However, there may also be a third option, since this could only exist for five years, that the company signs to buy it back, to just deposit it with the agency and after two, three, four, five years buy it back. There's something else you understand. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Michael Prevc has the floor. Please. Who do you have a replica of? I'm saying I haven't been here all along. Did he name you, misunderstood you or something? It's a good thing we don't argue about this right now. We better fight about the law. Here you go, Mr. Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Don't be scared. I won't say anything. I was incomprehensible about the part where Mr Shircelj mentioned me, so I want to fix it. I mean, about the Primor. I just gave an example of how we could save one company, but because we did not have a strategy and even in this country the banks do not hope to make any decisions, I said in this sense that we could – but I do not want to save the owners and I agree with you that the owners should take the most care. But it was more about having this thing. Now we're going to get through the back door all these credits to this company and now we're going to be saving them maybe more expensive than if we gave the Primor 20 million, and that would actually be [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, we don't understand each other. This would also cause private owners to fall down in ownership and change the relationship in the ownership structure – but that went away. The Austrians, for example – when we talk about a private company – Strabag was rescued, recapitalised and trained him to perform in Slovenian markets today. We just didn't know that. In this sense, I do not think we would have misunderstood that this is a particular company. All I'm saying is that in this way, because there was no strategy, now we're going to get a bunch of these things back through this so-called bad bank.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Michael Prevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u157	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I also find what the speaker has already found before me, that it is difficult to speak for those Members who know this matter very well, who, I can say, are also experts in this area, significantly greater than I am, I am not an expert in this field, but I am very much interested in learning. Last but not least, I have been following this debate, which took place today, with interest. Even as has been said today, I don't think I can say another word or another sentence that hasn't been said today. However, I could only explain in two sentences why I support this amendment and to Article 1 and the law as a whole. I am disappointed, or somehow it is incomprehensible, that today, when we listen to this debate, we are on two completely different shores in this kind of professional decision. We were united there somewhere at the beginning of the mandate that something must be done in connection with the rehabilitation of banks. At the moment we were talking about the start of the economy, when we were talking about measures to start the economy, it was clear to us: the credit crunch is the biggest obstacle that can be said to hinder the development of our economy. I don't know what measures to start the economy yet, but if we don't do something in this area, at the credit crunch, at the rehabilitation of the banks – then we were united in this, then there will be no start-up of the economy. If an entrepreneur does not get credit, we all know that there is no development in this company. Before that, one speaker said that good companies did get credit. No, even good companies, unfortunately, don't get credit anymore. The municipalities also find it very difficult to obtain credit, the funds they need to co-finance European projects, etc. We took our time, we set up a special task force. Each parliamentary party appointed one of its experts, both from the coalition and the opposition, and this expert team prepared this proposal. You know, we did not prepare the Members, we worked together, of course, and we must take full responsibility at the final stage for this; this group prepared it together with the Minister and with his professional colleagues. Why would I support this marriage? Because I trust this expert group because I also trust the minister and his associates. Because I believe that those who have prepared this proposal are truly well acquainted with this matter. Today we were actually talking about two concepts, because there is no other concept; we were talking about two. This is said to transfer bad claims to the so-called bad bank, that's one, the other is the concept that some of you are advocating to recapitalise banks. Reasons can be different, and one thing that bothers me is the other concept that some of you advocate. What bothers me is that this other concept has become completely confused, completely confused, the responsibility of those who have brought the banks into this situation. According to this principle or this concept that we are talking about today, we will be able to access this information. Maybe just one more sentence. I am also disturbed by the attitude or thinking of the Governor of Banka Slovenije, who says that we should wait for another week because it is not so urgent why you are in such a hurry. Look, it's not about being in a hurry here, even though we all know he's in a hurry. The point is that the Governor of Banka Slovenije had a lot of time as regulator of Slovenian banking in order to be able to do something in this area, but unfortunately he is not. Once again, I trust the profession that has drawn up this proposal, I trust the finance minister, and I will also support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I find there's still a desire to discuss it, so I'm opening the application. Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! There was a lot of debate today, anyway. Let me first say that all those who went to coordination in the summer were very interesting to start coordination in connection with this law. There was no Minister, there was no representative of the largest coalition party, but it was obvious that the coalition had subsequently consolidated and agreed that this had been easier. Let me present my opinion. The inadequacy, the incompleteness of the bill on bank stability, which is why I cannot support it myself, is so great that it will certainly not have my support. Especially when one sees that there are no amendments in only four articles in one marriage. Well, I'm sure something doesn't add up. Not that we would want to oppose as the opposition in Positive Slovenia, but because the bill itself does not answer the questions that we have been asking ourselves all summer – there were also some questions today – but something was: if, later on, we will see – both about the way banks are valued, whether they are cleaned, or whether they are uncleand banks or whose claims will go away from the bank and also about the composition of the supervisory board, which is also particularly interesting. The Governor of Banka Slovenije Dr. Kranjec said that Banka Slovenije has prepared a report, but as has been said several times today, this report has been received by both the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance, no one else. Not the MPs and the MPs. Well, we haven't seen this report. The Governor suggested that the adoption of the law should not be a rush to discuss the law. I am sure that it is not accidental: that previous drafts were contrary to laws and that constitutional disputes are not excluded. That the law is flawed and incomplete, which makes it impossible to support it, we are also warned by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. I am sorry that in recent times, if I recall the previous mandate correctly, I do not recall that there would ever be – if the Legislative and Legal Service had given a negative opinion, the amendment had been put in place, and we were in line in this direction. In this term, I can't believe what I'm going through. The central shortcomings of the bill's proposal are unclear and indeterminate. We have already had a similar experience, and we will discuss this in the Slovenian State Holding Act. The problem is of a systemic nature, as there are many inconsistencies within the law that lead to complete confusion between the provisions. Some, though, are slightly disturbed — today I see in the debates — if any of us even mention it. Only four articles have no amendments, which means that this law is really immature for admission. This is mainly because we do not want to say again, not to say, an ominous law like that of the ZUJF. ZUJF, which was decided in spite of indiscretion and numerous inconsistencies, the warnings of the Legal and Legal Service and which was discriminatory – from ideology to different people and so on, but not all were equally defined. So obviously we're going the same way, but this is where we're going in the direction of the banking system. It is also very important that the principle of legality, in which the legislature also reminds us once again that the bill contains provisions authorizing the government to adopt sub-laws – sometimes they say that it reads fine print; I think it is here too – a sub-legislative act from which it could be concluded that this is left to its discretion. This alerts us to the Law-Legal Service, which means that decision-making will be left to the government and to a lesser extent to the profession. This means that decision-making on the policy side and, if so, then it is also right that the policy can take responsibility, but not just to think about taking responsibility elsewhere. That's not good. It was interesting to hear Dr. Arhar's opinion on the position of the Association of Banks of Slovenia when it was pointed out that we had another extremely important law in the banking system, the Banking Act. We would do well to take it into account, pay attention, and not ignore it. This law lays down in Article 248. that the Bank must improve procedures for recovery of bad claims. The importance of risk analysis is also very widely defined in this law. Some of the colleagues have also talked about this today and how important it is, who in the bank, whose person is running the risk sector and how it is decided that perhaps the policy is not different from that of some owners. This is also extremely important. Dr. Arhar specifically warned that trust in banks is very important. It is important to stress what is extremely important for people who watch and listen to us; today banks in Slovenia are solvable and it is not true that deposits and deposits are not safe. That's what people are worried about, and when I'm asked by the lady who comes to the office, "What do you think, shall I raise 5,000 euros?" So you know what concern it is, but with the law you now propose — that is not good! It is not good that the matter is not being resolved as it would be right to resolve all uncertainties, inconsistencies. However, there is no need for too many words to undermine the trust of people in banks, the Slovenian banks are trustworthy, the first three banks in Slovenia, we know they control 45% of the banking system in Slovenia. The stability of banks and capital stability were essentially the purpose and core essence of this whole law, which unfortunately is not being saved in the way it should be. The notice of the Association of Banks of Slovenia was also relevant to the principle of the Guardian of the creditor. Some of you just named some companies, on the other side of the bank as creditors, and so on, when they're lending. Of course, we know that when the loan is paid, there is no longer any risk to the bank. As early as 18 June, he told Dr. Arhar, and in July 2012, they sent a proposal to the Ministry of Justice to regulate matters systematically with appropriate legislation. But until today, I guess nothing has moved in this area. The Bank of Slovenia submitted its proposal for a law on financial stability of 10 September 2012, but this was obviously not taken into account. Nor does this opinion by the European Central Bank, which was forwarded to us only at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, when it was, on our part, also exposed to this or by opposition parties. Nor does the Commission of the Council of State support the proposal of the law. So another one of our political, important, even in some way regulators who decide. They stated: "The Commission would expect the opinion of the Bank of Slovenia to be taken into account in the timing of the adoption of the law; therefore, the Bank of Slovenia would be more involved in the activities of the newly established company and in the decision-making of the selected banks which will receive the measures..." And so on. Let me also say that I am not surprised that the Governor of Banka Slovenije has made a decision and to that extent has highlighted matters, although it is also a responsibility on the regulator, but it is also important that what he has warned us that obviously in this law, the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, will not only be intended for management, but it will be of significant importance: it will review the situation in banks. I quote his words, the governor," as the owner, the Republic of Slovenia can review everywhere where it already owned it. Review — Based on What? As the owner, he can identify the capital risk, he can agree on the recapitalisation of the bank. The bank’s claim management company is expected to operate primarily but not to identify what needs to be taken out. That's what he said. We will create an institution that not only manages but manages everything that is necessary. Banka Slovenije by law, we know that only banks can be controlled, Banka Slovenije cannot manage the bank. I think it was clearly pointed out in connection with this, what kind of problem this is. We live in a democratic and legal country where the expectations of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are high. Above all, make visible the effects of all changes in laws and measures as soon as possible. When there was a speech today about the Bell. I received messages from some people from the White Land saying, "When we hear the Bell, we remember 3,000 people from Beta who lost their jobs." Because Zvon 1 and Zvon 2 were majority owners of Betty. These are worrying things. Not the faith and ideology in this case, but the fact that these people don't have a job today. People, when they listen to us and when certain debates go in a different direction, may think that this law needs to be adopted because there will be so many thousands of jobs for a new one. That's not true. That's not true! Therefore, I cannot support this law alone. I am also convinced that the Association of Banks and Banka Slovenije would probably not have been so loud in the National Assembly if it were not really appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Ambrožich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u161	Thank you for your word, chairman. Today, we have a law that the proponents represent as a good basis for resolving the issues of bad banking claims. The key solution is to set up a Bank Bad Claims Management Company called a Bad Bank. Experts, who have been mentioned on both the left and the right side several times today, point to a number of open questions that are not addressed by the proposal on our tables. Some of them have already been mentioned today. So since I am among the last in line to give my opinion today, let me mention them one more time. The fundamental issues that are being raised to many: which are the banks that are entitled to these rescue measures, what is the way in which banks will be selected by the State for rescue measures, whether solutions are offered in accordance with the Company Act, the Bond Act, the Banking Act; even the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and any other regulation would be found in this body. It is also impossible to avoid considering how such a financial gap could have arisen in previous mandates if you want, and the response to us, in particular the new Members in this role, should have been offered mainly by those decision-makers who had an insight into the real state of the Slovenian banking system at least three mandates back, but did not act. Taking into account the opinions of many financial bank experts, who do not call a bad bank a bad solution, while taking into account concerns from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, representatives of the Bank of Slovenia, representatives of the Association of Banks of Slovenia and others, I cannot support the proposal for a law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Roman Jakič, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u163	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I kind of feel pretty powerless. It's about like looking through a soundproof glass as the state steps or someone steps toward the abyss, and you scream and shout, and no one wants to hear you, and those who want to hear you don't want to hear you. I have to say, I'm not an expert in the field, but I've read all the expert opinions. One such expert opinion is Igor Masten, an economist, a professor at the Ljubljana Faculty of Economics and a free NLB supervisor. I pulled something out of here that we're always fighting about, and I don't know why we have to. He also says, and this is actually number one for me, "that bad loans were made in 2006, 2007 and in the first three quarters of 2008. When we were doing an analysis of the approved loans that are now receiving the biggest weaknesses and write-offs in NLB, we saw that almost all were concluded during that period." And then goes on "political and economic elites should acknowledge their mistakes and offer a solution". In order not to jump at once, I also agree with him – and this is indeed number 2 – when asked who is responsible for the crash, it is said, bankers, politicians, tycoons, financial holding companies, the Church and so on when he says: "It is a common principle for all, even though we can separate them sectorally, ideologically or politically. In the background, people had a common interest – to gain financial benefits, the right hand and left in Slovenia can be agreed very quickly. In particular, you had a wonderful co-existence with the NLB administration set up in the left and right governments. They quickly found the situation of cohabitation in the money, but the way it was always the same. For example, financial holding companies have been strongly seasoned with this story of national interest by the formation of large pillars. These had explicit policy support." Fact 3 is that the rehabilitation of banks is a key priority of Slovenia, which requires an appropriate legislative framework and a transparent and thoughtful resolution of bad claims. I am convinced, however, that this government proposal establishes a concentration of absolute economic power in the hands of the government and a parallel legal system without public control with the aim of privatising and exploiting an individual. Why am I saying this? In front of us is already the entire State Secretary Krušec, who is without a legal basis, at least this is reported by the media, and the government has not denied it, and I will go on — so that he will not read to me: “Bank secrecy, corporate governance principles and not least the Law on Economic Companies for the Ministry of Finance, led by Janez Šuštersič and his employees obviously no longer apply. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Dejan Krušec, according to our reliable information from the management of the Bank led by Lenič, requested even information about the loans and deposits of its directors days ago, which could constitute a serious violation of the Banking Act. This bank's management or supervisory board strictly prohibits the disclosure of any information on its committees, in particular information on individual loans and deposits..." Of course, the Ministry didn't deny it. He'll also walk, just like he did on the Triglav Insurance Board, we're legitimized. Now he's been doing this past the law, past some practice, and now we're gonna get this opportunity. Earlier, the discussion had developed on guarantees. I must say that I am very weak in will when I hear that out of 22 banks in the Republic of Slovenia, three have actually created a loss, and these are the top three and those in state ownership. I don't understand how those banks are so successful! If we don't know how to run this thing, let's do something other than put it from one piece to the other. We've talked about bail before, and I have to say, I'm surprised at this ease. Of course, the guarantee isn't written down, my colleague Horvat talked about it. What if we cash out the guarantee? And the guarantee is not only 400 million for TES 6, it is also a guarantee for Greece of EUR 1.5 billion or for Dars of EUR 2 or 3 billion. If I understood correctly the Secretary of State, he said that this country had guarantees of EUR 7 billion. For 7 billion euros, it is said that if it is cashed, it is a 7 billion-dollar hole that we make. Let me conclude by saying that it's transparent and pro-prosaic, that you're going to put bad claims on a special agency. I have a feeling, and given that I know this government, and this history of the political party that is most warmed up to do so, it is perfectly clear that you will be able to sell the cleaned then, and if you speak in Mr Pukšić's vocabulary, then I would say that the "shit" that you did by giving bad credit to friendly companies in the 2004-2008 mandate, we will save taxpayers. Today we talked a lot about who he is. Where are these bad loans Istrabenz, Laško, T 2, Bell About Bell, interesting – yes, I will answer this statement. If the Stožice received the last meal of fifteen million of the 15 approved funds of the New Ljubljana Bank, they could have been paying the Ljubljana Bank a meal for one year by renting the premises of the shopping centre. It is said that the money could come back, and for political reasons, because this is Zoran Jankovic's project, the political pressures were so great on the Ljubljana Bank that it should not have given this last loan. For example, no one talks about Bell Two, but he is not able to return a story that has a billion euros worth of claims and, by the way, only a million euros in bankruptcy, and that is what they have now given 700 000 euros to Fors, of course he is employed in the Maribor diocese – but what we want. This Fors, which essentially took credits for an investment in Argentina for 7.4 million euros. Now, of course, I understand my colleague Puksic why he said he would go to South America to solve the economic situation. Maybe I should go save this inheritance investment that Zvon Two made. No! No! I'm talking about how hard it is to have this discussion with different vats. I have presented facts that have definitely convinced me that this law is not appropriate and that this legal basis is based solely and exclusively on speculation that the state property, which is yet to be sold out. Neither will anyone report this as we should, in another case, if otherwise, or if the bad claims were rectified within these three banks, which the state is in charge of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mrs. Patricia Shulin has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u165	President, thank you for your word. Good evening, everyone. Thank you very much. colleague Alenka Bratušek, I accept your apology for your reaction yesterday, and I also appreciate your apology. Few of us, even here, are likely to be able to do so. As for the personnel you mention, what an expert says, and another expert, and if they are such experts, I ask you why we are in such a crisis. Let's listen to new people, new ideas. I trust the current Minister of Finance, including the Secretary of State. If I'm not mistaken, you both have a PhD in economics. Together with the task force, they set up a new law before us, and I believe in it, I trust this law. However, I agree with all of you who have said that it will be born if this society that is being established is led by the wrong people, as the banks of the wrong people seem to be running, and the wrong people are sitting in some of the control councils. In this working group that was formed in the summer, I understood somehow the opposition that you had resigned from participating in this working group because the coalition had made a different decision than you had anticipated. But I understand that you're the only one who likes this model of bank recapitalisation. I don't understand! Where the permanent recapitalisation of our banks has led us, we all probably know after today's debate in the National Assembly. Last but not least, we're trying to solve this today. I have also listened closely to your comments, but I would expect that they are a little clearer, specific, professional and transparent, including all these amendments tabled by the coalition members, the parties before us, are certainly the desire and work of the expert groups to further improve this law, and also taking into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, including the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and others. The risk analysis of the adoption of this law and the functioning of this company are also carried out. Once again, I stress that this law will be born if it is led by the wrong people. I hope that in these 20s, we have repeatedly burned ourselves so that we will now be careful who we will recruit there. This marriage won't start working overnight the way we want it to. This will be gradual. We also need to obtain better bank ratings first so that we can also get fresh capital from abroad. I also associate with those who do, and I have no problem being held accountable by anyone who is proven guilty, irrespective of political, religious or other affiliation. And once again, I urge you to respect each other and not all of us are muddy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u167	Thank you very much. We accept an important law, and this law interferes with the resolution of old mistakes and old sins, old robberies, which makes it logical for me to see this remarkable unrest when we adopt this law on this side, in the parties who try to return the eyewitnesses over the table and return the ball over the table. Look, not just yesterday's events, there are a lot of things in this country that show how it was in the banking system, who were the heads of administration, who were the most important people who approved these loans from the background. That's why I have to say when my colleague Brunskole said it was an evil marriage, right?Oh, my God! I think I have a more ominous picture ahead of me, which is one year old when my colleague Brunskole was on the Master's Deputies at the Slovenian Gerontocracy, who then appointed the president of this party, and we know what interests this gerontocracy led: to control Slovenia, as last said, that we will continue to rule. See, ladies and gentlemen, this law also provides in Article 3 for the determination of responsibility for the emergence of bad bank claims. And this is the fear that is present, and the nervousness that is present on this side. I must say that I will make every effort to make this responsibility as transparent and radical as possible. I'm here for radical methods. I'm not afraid of anything, even if one of the vultures who snuck into our government — they were vultures, always. Mr Jeršič, it is interesting that Jakič did not mention it because the minister accepted it from Jankovic's handball to protect his back a little. He didn't mention him. He mentioned everything else. He knows where such emissaries were sent from. Ladies and gentlemen, don't be nervous, but he thinks it is important for you Members to accept that we are united that this law is one of the experiments. Today they are smart from the Economic Institute of the Faculty of Law – and because Mr Križanič was in the previous term from that institute! Why were they not wise and then suggested a solution that would be lifesaving and resolve this situation? At the time there was no such thing as tycoon loans and – without control. [[...]] This unrest is proof that we are on the right track.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Žveglich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u169	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Before, my friend Matjaž Han, who is not in there now, said that this government has been in there for a year and has not done anything yet – to be wrong for four months at one year, that is quite a "miss". I hope he didn't talk about other things like that, on the average, they were a little more accurate. The crisis in Slovenia was not caused by the Americans, but we are responsible and responsible for it by the Slovenians themselves; unless any money from Slovenia went to America and to other islands. That's it. This is my opinion if we are our masters in Slovenia. However, it is appropriate to always make excuses to others. What's the difference between one model and another? In any case, we'll pay the taxpayers. Yeah, that's right. I'm worried about one thing and the other. Personally, I would prefer to sell our shares in Slovenian banks along with these bad claims. Well sold. Only if we get an ass who'll pay for it. Too bad we don't have that time to at least try to sell and see what price we'd get; but we'd probably sober up later and cry, I think. Whether we save this thing at once with this withdrawal and with guarantees, or we're going to be one step at a time, "mick by mic": once 100 million, and twice 100 million, and then another billion, and then another two billion. How much money we have put in this silver! It's pure iron, it's not silver anymore, so much money has gone in. This money has not been bloated — unfortunately so far. The question is whether we have learned from the past that we will be better in the future. I don't have the skills to give a prescription, what if it was good. However, it is true that I prefer to listen to economists who are a little younger than me who have not fallen on Slovenian taxpayers' money for the rest of my life and have listened to them for the rest of my life, what and how it should be, but there is no hack. In the end, it's a little provocative. Which one of us is willing to sell the house, the car, and give that money to buy the shares of the NKBM? They're for 2 euros. They're not anymore. That could be a good investment, I think.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u171	Thank you for your word. I will begin with the statement made by the Minister of Finance today that the taxpayers will be subject to this law for four billion euros. He said that, of course, this would then also be paid with guarantees. You know what is the highest claim in Slovenia – the claim of Zvon holding company. One billion. And do you know which claim is not secured in Slovenia? Holding a bell. One billion unsecured claims! So much for us adopting this special law on bank rehabilitation. These are the facts. This is not a rescue of banks, it is not a rescue of the economy, but it is a rescue of one billion unsecured claims of Zvon holding company. This is the basic starting point. In holding, you will first save denationalisation, everything else is of secondary importance, or you will exhaust the economy to solve it. As for other matters, when you say - you all agree, especially in the coalition, that you cannot solve the problems of the one who caused them. I fully agree with you. He can't handle the same bank management that's been lending credits, now he can't handle these things. I agree with you a hundred percent. However, the following took place within the mandate of the first government of Janez Janša from 2004 to 2008. Gross external debt was 15.3 billion in 2004. At the end of the term of office, this debt was 39 billion. So, 21 billion in four years has grown gross external debt. When we look at how bank loans increased, we find that on average the percentage of bank loans increased by 27%. So, a crazy raise in bank loans. Now I'm asking you where we got our bank issues today. You explain that Slovenia does not need state banks because they worked poorly. I'm sorry, when did this debt come about? When you say the Governor of Banka Slovenije is the first - I remember well when the Governor of Banka Slovenije Mr Gaspari found that you overheated the economy, that the crisis was on the march, but without wanting to understand, you explained publicly: that there was no crisis, no crisis. Those were your statements back then. And that was a key mistake! How can the Bank of Slovenia tell the public that it will not allow credits to limit them if the Government claims that there will be no crisis. These are the key errors that have occurred in Slovenia. By 2004, Slovenia had an exemplary macroeconomic situation in Europe. From that moment on, stories began to fall. The fact is that the errors made by the Government 2004-2008 are as follows: you have reduced taxes on companies, you have reduced capital taxes. This capital went after or for the purchase of companies, then the exhaustion, of course, of these companies and the outflow of capital abroad. Some companies have used this money usefully and invested in development and are still successful today and are one of the most successful companies in Europe. They still are. However, a large part of this money went abroad at the time, but you made it possible with the wrong tax policy in 2007, when you unloaded the economy and this money did not go into development. But you unloaded it at 911 million a year. This is almost a billion euros that we would need today to fix the bank without any problems. These are the key mistakes of the government of Janez Janša. Look, he also went to credit for building highways. Earlier we had a 50% loan ratio, 50% of the budget money or the gas tolar was then called. You've made a different choice. We're going to fully credit the freeways and you're in charge of Dars. Then you introduced vineyards that were significantly lower than those that Dars has to repay – especially in 2013, now that he is coming, and 2014. He doesn't have any money! These are evident key errors and it is a shame to even debate what has happened. But look, I'm gonna ask you now. If you claim – because we say that banks could handle these claims themselves, they could set up a special department and clean up where it was bad, but not under the same leadership. We argue that the same government that did this damage cannot solve this situation. She can't, because she's going to cover up the information she's going to hide publicly in order to try to create a public image. You will cover this up in the following way, as stated in Article 4 of this Law, which we are considering today. You say that this bank debt management company will be liable to provide information of a public nature, except for information which, by law governing banking, is not to be transmitted or which is to be interpreted by the bank's claim management company as a business secret. But then, look ahead: in the event of a dispute, what is business secrecy and whether any information is rightly marked as a business secret, the Government decides. What do you think the government will decide to keep public, and what will be the secrets? Those who burden you will be secrets, those who do not, you will try to mediate as a public and pass on this wrong policy as a responsibility to others. This is the whole story of this marriage, this is the whole story of this marriage! In addition to wanting to take over the management of all companies through these banks, to recruit people and to exhaust this economy to the end. As I have already said, the goal is not to save the economy, but to pay the unprotected obligations of the Bell. These are facts that are undeniable. I would also ask the minister: Why is the cut-off date bad claims 1. 9. 2012? Mr Secretary of State, if there is no minister, you may answer. Why is the cut-off date for determining bad claims 1. 9. 2012? America made a completely different decision and had a date of 30. Ten. 2008 and Germany 31. 12. 2008 For a simple reason, 2007 already felt a crisis, 2008 came in, the Germans said: end, these claims, which were bad, we recognise, others that the speculators could have made by renting credits – because they knew that there would be a financial crisis and bank recovery, they were borrowing credits, and when you know that the bank would either fail or the state would recover it, this claim is also going to go away. We clearly recognise all claims by 1 September 2012! We therefore argue that today we should have an analysis of the situation which are commercial loans, which are real estate, which are projective, what is the handleability of credits, and how many such credits that have been truly speculatively leased and the money has gone abroad and are now cost-effectively loaded there. You admit it all, my dear, you admit it all! This is why it is again a big fraud in this law, a big fraud and a cover-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u172	You don't have time for a discussion or a replica. We are still discussing Article 1 and the amendment to Article 1 and I am asking if anyone else wants to discuss, except, of course, those in those parliamentary groups that you no longer have time for, but these are, I think, already three groups of Members. I can see the hands, so I'm opening the application. Check-in is on, please. Mag. Maja Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u173	Thank you for your word. According to experts, the law we are currently discussing is even more fateful in its consequences than SDH. I would like to warn you that I will not talk about strictly professional matters, because they are my colleagues and I would like to talk about how I read this law as a Member. I'll focus on paragraphs 8 and 32. Since I didn't get any answers to the questions about these two articles, I went to look at the explanation. None of the reasons are because it is merely a redrafting of the text referred to in the article and a warning that they are copying German laws. I will go to my brother's opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, Article 8 – one page of comments, Article 32 – three pages of comments. I'm looking at what you fixed with the amendments – nothing. Article 32 is literally the same as paragraph 8 in the original text. What's this all about? Just so you know, this law is about setting up an institution that means complete centralisation and concentration of power and decision-making in the hands of the government. The Governing Board, which has seven members, three executive directors and four non-executive, non-executive directors shall be appointed by the Government, shall elect by the non-executive directors after the invitation. There is no such thing as an invitation to tender, not how, as pointed out by the Law-Legal Service – it remains inconsistent, as it is. Before that, someone tripped to the governor of Banka Slovenije. Here, in some articles, you allow the possibility that the salary is indefinite and can be exceeded by the wages and restrictions that are for those companies that are state-owned. And now for Article 32. What does the Law-Legal Service say about this? "The responsibilities of bank administrations and supervisors, as proposed in this Article, are disputed in our view both in terms of constitutional regulation and in terms of the legal system of liability for individual types of conduct." And what article is it to be perfectly clear? This is the article by which they will be able to decide and declare violations. This is the responsibility of bank administrations and supervisors. So much for that. Hunting witches beyond the law, past the constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u174	Thank you very much. I ask if anyone else wants to discuss the amendment to Article 1. I guess not. I therefore open Article 2 and the amendment to Article 2 proposed by the SDS, DL, SLS, DeSUS and NSI MPs. I ask if anyone wants to discuss the amendment to Article 2. I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I am opening Article 3 and the amendment to Article 3 tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Does anyone want to discuss it? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. I am opening Article 4 and the amendment to Article 4, the amendment tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Procedural? Mr. Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Before me, both Mr Janko and Mrs Majda spoke, but I think they have asked two questions to the Secretary of State, and given that we have gone before Article 1, it would be wise and good for all of us to have the Secretary of State answer the question raised. So please, President, if you will give him your word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u176	Sure. I always give the government my word when he wants it. I'm asking you, we're obviously sneezing, so Dr. Krusec, Secretary of State, has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u177	On these three questions. About the cut date first. You have correctly determined that the cut date is November 1st, Sorry, September 1st, I'm sorry. However, it is necessary to know that similar laws in other countries, according to Germany and other countries, have been adopted significantly longer than this law, have been adopted for several months, which really opened the way for speculation, and that in those countries the problem was not lending to financial companies and construction, but were documents or speculative papers. Speculative securities can be traded or sold or bought away rather than granted some credit. Thus, from this point of view, it is feared that some credits would now be approved in these few days or even weeks, significantly smaller than they were in those countries. This is about this date. With regard to the invitation to tender, it is not specified in this Act who elects executive directors after the invitation to tender has been made, but is indicated in the Company Act that the single system selects executive directors by non-executive directors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u178	Thank you very much. As it is said, I am putting Article 3 and the amendment to Article 3 into the debate, this is the amendment of the coalition groups. And, if you will allow me, I will also continue to inform you, as you do from the accompanying material, that all the amendments have been tabled by the coalition groups, so that I will not repeat this in every article. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. Mr. Janko Weber. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u179	Thank you for your word. Article 3 speaks of the purpose and purpose of establishing a Company for the Management of Bad Claims of Banks. Look, here's another very serious dilemma when we're talking about this society. What will be the attitude towards another owner in the New Ljubljana Bank? It is a Belgian bank, which is also co-owner of the New Ljubljana Bank. If we buy back the claims with these four billion, will we also buy back the bad investments that were actually approved by this very administration or representatives of the Belgian bank? These are the people responsible for checking and approving credits in Slovenia. The most bad claims came from this address. So the question is: Are we also saving the Belgian bank by buying the claim?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Do you want to answer? Here you are, Dr. Krusec, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The owners shall not be rescued by this measure. Why? This is because, if recapitalisation is required after the transfer of claims from banks, this recapitalisation will be carried out at an extremely low price. Why? As the European Commission's State aid rules also impose a low price of entry due to State aid. So I think there's a fear here that any owner would be privileged or rescued to do so is relatively superfluous. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Weber, the Group of Members no longer has time to discuss. I therefore continue to discuss Article 4 and the amendment to Article 4. I'm asking if anyone wants a word. I warn you, I think the four parliamentary groups have run out of time to discuss. I don't see any hands, no wishes. I'm closing the debate. I move on to Article 6 and the amendment to Article 6. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. That is why I conclude the debate. We move on to Article 7 and the amendment to Article 7. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. We move on to Article 8 and the amendment to Article 8. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. We move on to Article 8a and the amendment to Article 8a. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We move on to Article 9 and the amendment to Article 9. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We move on to Article 10 and the amendment to Article 10. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 11 and the amendment to Article 11. Anybody want to talk? No one wants to discuss it. That is why I conclude the debate. We are moving on to Article 12 and the amendment to Article 12. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 13 and the amendment to Article 13. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 14 and the amendment to Article 14. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We move on to Article 15 and the amendment to Article 15. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We move on to Article 16 and the amendment to Article 16. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 17 and the amendment to Article 17. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We move on to Article 18 and the amendment to Article 18. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We move on to Article 19 and the amendment to Article 19. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. I am moving on to Article 20, Article 20 and Amendment to Article 20. Anybody want to talk? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 21 and the amendment to Article 21. Anybody want to talk? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. We move on to Article 22 and the amendment to Article 22. Anybody want to talk? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. I open Article 23 and the amendment to Article 23. Anybody want to talk? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. We move on to Article 24 and the amendment to Article 24. Anybody want to talk? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 25 and the amendment to the same Article. Anybody want to talk? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. We move on to Article 26 and the amendment to the same Article. Anybody want to talk? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. We move on to Article 27 and the amendment to Article 27. Anybody want to talk? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. We move on to Article 28 and the amendment to the same Article. Anybody want to talk? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. We move on to Article 29 and the amendment to Article 29. Anybody want to talk? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. We move on to Article 30 and the amendment to Article 30. Anybody want to talk? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 31 and the amendment to Article 31. Anybody want to talk? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. We move on to Article 32 and the amendment to Article 32. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. He won't, so I'm closing the debate. I am opening Article 32a and the amendment to Article 32a. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. He won't, so I'm closing the debate. We move on to Article 32b and the amendment to the same Article. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. He won't, so I'm closing the debate. I am opening Article 33 and the amendment to Article 33. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. He won't, so I'm closing the debate. We move on to Article 34 and the amendment to Article 34. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. He does not want to, so I am closing the debate on the amendment, i.e. to the amendment to Article 34. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I find that no one wants to discuss it anymore, so I am closing the debate. The decision on the amendments will be made in thirty minutes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item, and I also interrupt the 6th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 19.50. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u183	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue the second reading of the bill. Mr. Möderndorfer, procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u184	Dear President, procedurally. Given that we have held a debate on the amendments and that we have listened to such and different reasons throughout the whole debate, and given the way that this has taken place on the committee itself and in the procedure itself, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Group of Members will not participate in the vote. Take it out yourself. This applies to this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u185	Thanks for the information. We'll wait a minute or two and proceed. We're moving on. We will decide on the amendments to the updated Proposal for a Law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. Mag. Ivan Vogrin, please. Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u186	Yeah. Mr President, fellow Members and colleagues, I would like to ask that you could sit somewhere else. By the way, I always stay in the clearing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u187	You will face a technical problem so that you will not be able to vote, because you can only vote with your card and on your own behalf, which is not otherwise considered. But you have a good view of the surrounding area, well known. Now, seriously. So we are going to vote on the amendments to the updated Proposal for a Law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. Voting, we will make the decision on the basis of a review of the amendments from today. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 1. Please check for voting devices. Explanation of voice. Mr Janko Weber, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. At the beginning of the debate at this point of the agenda, however, we proposed that it be better to hold a debate on Tuesday. After we have received the amendments, we have really found that these are editorial amendments, they are practically empty, without some important content. It will be important for us that these amendments, although they do not have any content other than editorial corrections, are accepted and thus open up the possibility of having substantive discussions on Tuesday, when we try to point out once again why this law is bad and why it is harmful to the resolution of banks, namely the economy as such. In voting, the parliamentary group will abstain and thus allow you to vote on these amendments, I stress that on Tuesday we will be able to make substantive – even when the President of the Government will be present – a much more difficult debate in the debate than in these amendments, which are practically empty.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u189	Thank you. This is also in line with the agreement at the meeting of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, which we had in the morning, after the complication that we have successfully solved. We move to a vote on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 1. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 1. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 2. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 50 votes against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. The amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups, including all the following amendments, was tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups, to Article 3. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 50 votes against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 4. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 50 votes against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 5. Article 6(1) of Regulation (EC) We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one's against it.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 7. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one's against it.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 8. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one's against it.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to 8a. Article 1(2) We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against 2. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 9. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 10. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one's against it.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 11. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one's against it.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 12. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one's against it.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 13. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 14. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one's against it.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 15. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one's against it.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 16. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one's against it.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 17. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one's against it.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 18. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. For 48, against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 19. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. For 50, against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 20. We're voting. There's 58, for 50, for 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 21. We're voting. There's 55 in attendance, 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 22. We're voting. There's 58, for 50, for 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 23. We're voting. There's 57 in attendance for 50, against no one. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 24. We're voting. There's 57 in attendance for 50, against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 25. We're voting. There's 55, 48, versus 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 26. We're voting. There's 57 in attendance for 50, against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 27. We're voting. There's 57 in attendance for 50, against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 28. We're voting. There's 58, for 50, for 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 29. We're voting. There's 55 in attendance, 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 30. We're voting. There's 58, for 50, for 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 31. We're voting. The 56 Members and Members present voted 49 against 2. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] Amendment accepted. Amendment to Article 32. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] Amendment accepted. Amendment to Article 32a. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 50 votes against, none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] Amendment accepted. Amendment to Article 32b. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 50 votes against, none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] Amendment accepted. Amendment to Article 33. We're voting. The 56 Members and Members present voted 48 against 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] Amendment accepted. And an amendment to Article 34. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 50 votes against, none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] Amendment accepted. We conclude the vote on the amendments. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to, say and write, to all articles of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates or do they intend to table amendments to the open article? Mr. Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u190	Thank you very much. I'm predicting we're going to table a few more amendments for the third hearing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u191	Thank you. I interrupt this item on the agenda, which we will continue with Tuesday's third reading, after the end of agenda 1 – after the final questions raised by the Parliamentary President of the Government. Ambassadors and Members of Positive Slovenia, welcome back to our midst. Colleagues and colleagues, are you ready to proceed with the 3rd item of the agenda? You are. We continue with item 3 of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Slovenian State Holding. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments and articles. You have a review of the amendments from today, that is, 28. 9. 2012. I am putting to the debate first Article 2 and the amendment of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 2. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on this Article. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 9. There's no interest in debate. I am putting Article 10 and the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats to Article 10 into the debate. I'm opening an application for discussion. Mr. Janko Weber. The word is yours. After him, Mr. Janez Vasle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. We have already highlighted the main points of this amendment in the context of the second reading, but we note that the coalition has not by any chance worked hard and deepened into this amendment and tried to summarize this content and introduce it into the law for the third reading. However, Amanda is talking about the fact that the National Assembly approves the annual investment management plan prepared by the management of the Slovenian State Holding Board with the approval of the Supervisory Board and the consent of the Government, because the fact is that the capital investment management strategies will not be able to change the National Assembly, because after what you have already accepted, it will only be possible to give consent. So the National Assembly will not have any effect on what happens to capital investments, it will only be able to agree or oppose. And since the coalition has a majority, there is no doubt that you will agree to what you wish. What you want, however, with this amendment we also want to limit in particular in the sense that we are allowing up to €5 million in debt in holding for the current operation and refinancing of the liabilities transferred to holding, especially the existing Darsa loans and some others. Of course, we do not agree with the fact that he owes himself to holding, because he will manage everything but improve the economic situation and, above all, if he does, he will exhaust those companies that are still healthy today. Above all, energy, for example, generates half a billion Euros of resources to create development, and if it comes to paying off the credits you intend to rent, especially for the payment of denationalisation, we cannot talk about development, but again about the exhaustion of the Slovenian economy and in particular the exhaustion of those that have been able to still create their policies, in accordance with how the National Assembly can also see the development of energy. From this moment forward, if this law is passed, this will no longer be the case and the price will be paid mainly by the area that is still profitable today and the holding company actually allows the free reallocation of funds wherever you wish, you will redistribute the profits of businesses. We reiterate, it will not be about economic recovery, it will not be about the rehabilitation of banks or the recapitalisation of banks and the like, but it will be about spending and covering those obligations that you will set out for yourself; for holding will not be responsible for information of a public nature, the holding company will not be controlled by the Court of Auditors, the National Assembly will not control it, the Government will have all the powers over what will happen to 12 billion assets. Sorry, this far exceeds the reasonable limit of decision-making and if our amendment was adopted, these things change substantially; we return to the National Assembly our role, and, last but not least, we limit the uncontrolled borrowing and spending of resources for which the public will not be able to find out why and where this money went. Once again, we will be able to meet with money going abroad to tax havens. We can expect 20 to 30 billion in this law to join another 10 billion assets that will flow out of Slovenia. And all this past the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues, especially in the coalition, I really don't know where you have the reason and what vision of the development of Slovenia drives you to put on a private company or company that has the status of a private enterprise, 12 billion assets and no one among us will have an impact on how this will be used. I cannot support such solutions, but I hope you will support this amendment and allow us to prevent irreparable damage to Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u193	Anybody else want to discuss Article 10? Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u194	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues and colleagues! Five of us listened to deception and intimidation again. I will not support this amendment alone because the existing law has sufficient safeguards to prevent all the things that Mr Weber has stated from happening. First of all, the transfer of funds cannot exceed Article 6b, the principle of separation and the purpose of the asset. The assets are clearly specified, the capital company remains a standalone entity, a legal person within and must not be allocated to that property for purposes other than pensioners. Denationalisation must be paid whether the holding is established or not. Read the annual report of the Slovenian Compensation Society, in which you will see that "the assets are sufficient to pay all their obligations". This means that there will be no leverage for holding it to start paying. The public will not be informed of what the holding company will do. Read the amendments tabled by the coalition today. Holding will be subject to public information in the same way as public shareholders. All relevant information will be disclosed to the public. Secondly, the National Assembly will have the option of rejecting the classification, adopting the strategy and taking note of the annual report.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u195	Mr. Matjaz Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Well, I'll support this amendment. Marco, that's right. What, though, can affect what happens when the public reads from the media or from the Internet? But what can the public in Krk do? What, though, can influence the public in a private society? It can't affect anything! She can get to know each other and hold onto her head. However, assets will be sold in order to save your poor economic policy in this way. I remember my friend Roman Žwiglič, who said something like this: we have two cows, one that's a lot of milk, one that's a little bit less milk. Which one do you want me to do first? The one who gives you some milk! No, but we're going to be the first to "grab" – those who give a lot of milk! And that's wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u197	Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u198	Thank you. I am pleased to hear from Comrade Pogačnik and say how well arranged this is with the amendment, because you say – and you have said it correctly. Yes, information of a public nature, to the extent permitted by the Act on Shareholders! Well, we all know that key decisions will be marked business secrecy. And that, my dears, you will certainly not be presenting to the public, because the Law on Economic Companies, of course, does not allow the public to have access to all information in companies. If – and this is the alternative that we are stressing all the time – we maintain the Capital Investment Management Agency, and this is a public information undertaking in its entirety, the Court of Auditors of the Capital Investment Management Agency can fully review and report to the public. The Agency is responsible to the National Assembly that not only once a year, whenever it pleases us, we can call the Agency to the National Assembly and it has to report to us, including monthly, on what is happening. And that's the essential difference, my dears. You're covering up what's going to happen to 12 billion. Once again, I'm glad you've confirmed that denationalisation has to be paid. Yeah, $1.6 billion has to be paid! And that's your priority. Do not tell me that your priority is to develop the economy, jobs and so on what we need in Slovenia right now! Far from it. This law does not solve this, but from one city you will be able to manage 100,000 jobs and all the companies that employ these people. At least so far, if you've already been involved as a politician, you've been involved in every single company, and at least it took a while, you couldn't do it all at the same time. Now you can do this in a moment with all the companies that will be involved in holding, and 100,000 jobs will go one way, another way will go the other way Do you know what kind of situation people will be in? [[...]] One hundred thousand jobs you'll be pushing from one wall to another. You offer such solutions with this, and the National Assembly will be powerless in all of this. Completely powerless! You're talking about democracy, you're talking about how you're for dialogue, you're talking about how you'd talk to the opposition. Sorry about what? [[...]] When you accept this, we have nothing to talk about. At the meeting on TV 3, the President of the National Assembly said that the law on the Slovenian State Holding by emergency procedure on the rehabilitation of banks by emergency procedure, and then we will have normal procedures. I'm sorry, when these two marriages are passed, everything else is irrelevant! We can adopt laws by the end of the term of office, but we will not save anything else, because these two laws transfer all assets from the jurisdiction of the state out and everything will happen through the National Assembly, and we will be able to here really then wise up what would be, how could it be, but the powers of decision-making the National Assembly will not have. [[...]] If you accept this amendment, at least keep it so that we can accept the annual programme here and give our consent. What you are actually preparing right now in this country is true, I will repeat this claim, which I really stand for, the way to the biggest place in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u199	Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u200	President, thank you for your word. Now again cheating, lying, cheating. Read the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, read the Code of Management of Public Shareholders and you will see that a lot of information will still have to be disclosed by the holding company and that the information specified in the law cannot be covered by the code of conduct. My colleague Matjaž Han, what effect did the public today have on the management of the Capital Investment Management Agency? If it is possible for you to have two people whose names I will not mention – is it okay? - But it's not public! And the public today had no opportunity to influence the management of assets. The property is concentrated in one place, it brings a lot of advantages, management will be more efficient, transparent, rational, and ultimately responsibility will be determined. Once again, I will repeat: the coalition has adopted a number of proposals, many of which have recommended both the opposition and the social partners as well as the professional public.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u201	Mr. Matjaz Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u202	Marko, about the public; and I came to your parliament — how? We were elected by some public, and we are guaranteed to fight good or bad laws for this public. We are the guarantors of this public! In your holding company, we're not going to make any more decisions and neither are the public. That's a big difference. I am responsible to my constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u203	Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u204	Thank you very much. When I listen to Mr Weber, when I hear about the biggest theft of the century, when I hear about 100,000 jobs, I think it's some sort of insinuation, or some fantasy, or some intimidation. Another reason, in fact, is some rational reason for these words, which are hard words, I don't see. For the first time, because of the concentration or centralisation of five state companies, the entity, the legal entity will not do anything about it, not at this moment, nor at this moment. This will not be any private company, it will be a state-owned company. Here to operate with some notions, such as privacy, how this will now mean that someone will be able to do something and so on – a society that will have its organs, its control mechanisms and who will be able to manage the strategy independently, the policy. On the basis of the strategy to be adopted by the National Assembly – I hope it will, because now that the AUKN has done so, it is not – and when it is actually done, it will be very transparent to see what this company will do. It will also be clear which strategic investments will be less strategic investment and so on. Of course, to operate by now being 100 thousand jobs or scattered here or there, beaten, lost – look, it's not serious what you're saying! And that's misleading. Nothing's gonna happen to that. And if we're talking about denationalization. Yes, the court is obliged to do so. You know why? Because it was once a nationalization and because it turned out, once in the National Assembly, that it was unfair. It's over. There's no ideology here. If the state commits itself to some pay, and the National Assembly is on behalf of democracy, on behalf of the fact that certain things need to be corrected in this country, then that is it. But this does not mean that there will be no development, there will be no new jobs, that there will be no such things. I don't really understand how you can operate with the words of the place of the century! Because if there's a place for centuries, then we can be arrested here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u205	Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u206	Thank you. I think we have a lot of experience in Slovenia over the past 20 years about what has happened to companies that have been selling. Some owners bought companies to use them deliberately, to pour money abroad, and when the company was exhausted, they sold it, and people stayed on the road. With this law, as you admit, from one place, three will be in the administration, and nine in the control world, will run all these companies. These companies, my dears, they're not just like that! I think that Telekom, Krka, Petrol, Insurance Triglav, Post office of Slovenia – sorry, this is really gold! Our gold is this, and this gold will be managed by the three that will be determined by politics. And it's a ruling policy! One policy option will determine people. It has been proven that the company that had political assistance flourished when politics helped it. When that option is not in power, there is a crisis and people are on the road. That's why I'm talking about what's going to happen to 100,000 people. It used to happen with a company that had, say, I don't know, 100, 200 employees, a thousand employees, but now it's going to happen in one, with one decision 100 thousand. Look, you say, development. I want to know what budget balance you're going to put in the National Assembly. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, yeah, we'll wait, we'll be happy to wait, and we'll see how much money you spend on development. I also want to know how many dividends you're planning for the holding company. I really want to know how much dividends the holding company will make in the state budget. This will demonstrate what we are trying to prove to you and ensure that – with this amendment, if the holding is in debt, there will be no dividends. There will be no dividends. We are actually talking about the facts and about what we have already tried over the past 20 years. We're not talking about anything. Why are there over 100,000 people on the labour market today?Oh, my God! Is this a problem that we are aware of, or is it a problem that we are not aware of? This year, gross social product fell by 2%. My colleague Tanko – I think at college or somewhere – told me that this is not because of the ZUIF etc. Excuse me! The Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development has made it clear that due to the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act, consumption has decreased, people have lower wages, lower pensions, they do not know what tomorrow will be, they have stopped spending. When you stop buying, the economy can't sell. This is why economic growth has now fallen in this period, only because of the Public Finance Balance Act, by a maximum of 2% of the gross social product. When we sum up these negative indicators and know that the National Assembly will no longer have an impact on changing these indicators, we are concerned. I believe you're not, because you obviously have very high expectations about how these capital investments will be managed, because you will have direct control over this. Not responsibility! When you say so, it'll be a responsibility. Please! What will the three in the board of directors answer if something happens to these 12 billion? What will those nine in the control world do if something happens to these 12 billion? [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry, how? [[...]] What can we guarantee? With your assets? Yeah, if they have that much, it's those who have 20 billion abroad today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u207	I'm opening the application. Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u208	President, thank you for your word. First, I'd like to ask my colleague Han a question. Did the National Assembly decide on the recapitalisation of the NKBM? Did the National Assembly decide on the recapitalisation and sale of Adria Airways? Did the National Assembly decide on the recapitalisation of Gorenje? At the Gorenje Assembly, Kad and AUKN voted differently. This is not going to happen anymore. That's another thing. True, three people will run this society and have a nine-member supervisory board, but society will be bound to lead on the basis of a classification and an adopted strategy. In the Supervisory Council, the opposition will also be represented. This is the first time. So far, the opposition has not had a chance. Any proposer of the Supervisory Board shall have the opportunity to revoke any of the Supervisory Boards. This means that the strategy will be monitored, whether the holding company works according to the strategy, and it will be able to react. How can he react today? On the other hand, you're talking about 100,000 jobs. It is true that 60,000 jobs have been lost by Slovenia in the mandate of your government, and former Prime Minister Borut Pahor himself has admitted to underestimating the banking system. We're probably going to feel all these indicators today and we're going to be for a while because you didn't recognize the real diagnostics. The other side. That you're a master of deception, Mr. Weber. At the omise about 14 days ago, where colleagues Bratušek, colleague Braniselj, were also present, you were vehemently saying: "A great sale of Petrol is being prepared. The government will sell Petrol under the table." What finance is saying today – "the consortium is preparing sales". Maybe it's just speculation. But what happens next? It's supposed to sell Kad's share too. President of the Management Board. He is a visible representative of the Social Democrats, a member of the Working Group on Holding. Excuse me? What kind of comment? The government doesn't sell it!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u209	Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u210	Thank you very much again. In this regard, I think that the development itself which Mr Weber has been talking about must also be reacted here. In fact, why did less consumption and less consumption occur? Because it was too large in the past, because it was made in the past on the basis of false guile and indebtedness; and the indebtedness of the state and because it is – now I will talk about the deficit created in the period 2008-2012, the public sector deficit or the state to a wider extent. According to the ESA 95 methodology, the deficit increased to 6,5 % of the gross social product, which is once again higher under the Maastricht criteria! Of course, the country is in luck with her credit ratings dropping. And because this consumption was made on the basis of some fiction, it's possible to spend something you don't create. And that was bad! And because of the debt it owed, because the debt of the country increased from 23% of the gross social product to almost 50% of the gross social product, of course we are here today. If this money, which was taken as a state loan, was used to open new jobs without going into use, then we would be in a different situation today. If the five companies dealing with state property today, Kad, Sod, AUKN, DSU, PDU, PDP, which are all obliged to report to the National Assembly and which are adapting the annual report, were doing better, creating more dividends, the budget would be in better shape and in fact the deficit would be smaller. Since this has not happened, this state property must be managed more effectively. That's what this is about! Jobs will be created that way, not lost! Dividends are going to increase this way, they're not going to decrease, they're not actually there today. Given the monopolistic situation of these companies, the yield should be between 8% and 10%, not 1% or half of the percentage generated by AUKN; and this is also a matter of methodology. I do not understand that it is simply not determined that we are for a more efficient country or for a more efficient management of state-owned enterprises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u211	Mr. Franz Pukšič, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u212	After all these discussions, you can't even listen to all of this, in fact, it would be best if you didn't answer that either. But since we know the old Slovenian rule, you lie three times and become the truth. Some gentlemen today are so smart in these days, and you were very smart when we discussed the ZUJF, and today you explain. Listen, what did you do with the ZUJF? You've cut your income, you've cut your wages, you've cut your pensions, you're not wasting your money. Yes, of course. [[...]] It's already today. If it weren't for the ZUJF, there would be so much more debt. Where would they take it? You'd walk back to the loan if you continued to run the government. Remember what we explained to you, that you can't be in debt in the budget every year for two billion? Did you listen to us? You've been snarling. You've passed! But there's a payment coming. It's not working! You can't always just spend. So, it was living on credit, which, of course, is still unpayable today. Today we also have this responsibility because we pay so much higher interest due to those who have been irresponsible both at the Ministry of Finance, including those who have been preparing budgets, professional services as a whole policy. And to say that 100,000 people will roll left and right, yes, 60,000 of you have thrown them on the roads! [[...]] You've only done it in three years! And now it is our duty to stop this government from falling after Gauss; and this is what we are doing! [[..]] If it's raining, you can't stop it at one point, but you start gradually stopping this thing. After Gauss he always goes down and when he gets to the lowest point, only then slowly, he starts to rise very slowly. That could be very clear to you! What will be the answer? Mr. Weber, how do you answer today and your entire former government team for the last three years for the debt you've made? With what? Not even with the plain clothes! That's the problem! Because there is no responsibility; there is no moral, political responsibility, but material responsibility! Look what's going on. Look at the numbers, what's out there! And they say, "No, we don't. We are more than gods." That's not how it works. It's time for you to stop moralizing and do something you've never done, and now you're raising some kind of panic and scaring people and talking about the place of the century and I don't know what. The places of the century have happened, so today we are enacting legislation on the rehabilitation of banks. How some have cooperated in these places for centuries!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u213	Mr. Joseph Horvath [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Joseph Horvath is the only one with a word. Please, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I understand that the question of what will be the dividends for the operations of state-owned enterprises this year on the basis of the implementation of this law that we are adopting – that this issue has been meant more in a funny way. Indeed, I do not expect any dividends this year on the basis of the operations of state-owned enterprises. I'm speaking of course for the 2012 year. I will also point out this time that it seems to me that some of the debates and accusations of these solutions are indeed based on the own-skin method; for I do not even know how money is put into tax havens. Maybe there's some kind of manual, but I'm not buying it, and I'm curious. But, ladies and gentlemen, I think that our debate on this law should focus on the quality of corporate governance of state-owned enterprises. In fact, institutional governance is not that important, corporate governance is important and this quality of corporate governance will depend solely on the quality of the teams that will sit in these bodies. Now it's a question. Do we have enough quality managers at home? Here, the issue of our educational system is immediately being raised and a picture is being opened to me as a dean of one of the prestigious universities invited to a lecture in front of a few 100 students of Mr Kordez, who was learning how to do it. Please, corporate governance! So I'm going to say again what I am today: I prefer a quality team to manage this holding company, rather than a maximum, 100 percent perfect law, because some actions in management can be legal but not in line with business ethics. And here's the key. I do not support this amendment of the Social Democrats' colleagues to Article 10.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u215	Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u216	In fact, we are not talking about the past; perhaps even if we are talking about the past, then why was the referendum on pension work, why was the payroll law passed, why did we increase wages when we were talking about the past. Let's leave the past behind. We're here and we have to do something. In Article 10, we are only trying to say this, that it would be right, ladies and gentlemen, that the investment management plan should give consent to the National Assembly, but you do not want that. That's Article 10. I agree that this law can be adopted as you say if you write and sign how many new jobs you will open for this. How many new jobs are there? Of course, I have two points to discuss separately. Nor will we know this in the National Assembly, except from the public information that we will receive, as was said here today – how we will sell, for example, Gorenje, so the proportion of Gorenje we have, but for us living in the Shaleska Valley and all the other workers who depend on Gorenje, it is extremely important what will happen to Gorenje. The owner would do exactly what you said or said today, namely to cut costs and move production hypothetically, of course, elsewhere. Today we need to talk about the fact that the National Assembly will not give consent and we will not know about it; and this is what we have tried to say in this Article. Then we have the energy that is most important for our work, for our security and the one that gives dividends – Mr Horvat, energy certainly gives dividends, Krka gives them and everyone else who are, and insurance companies and more. And these dividends were also received by the budget. I'm sure these dividends were last year, and this year they're going to be, and a few companies are going to have good results, so I think they're going to be talking about what's going to happen to them. When we talk about energy, it must be said that it is our property, which, ladies and gentlemen, of course, if anything happens in this sale, here in the National Assembly we will not even know. Of course, the problem is that it is written here that this investment plan should be submitted to the National Assembly and that we should give our consent. However, consensus means that we will decide on it and that if we do not give our consent, this cannot happen. It would therefore be right to talk about this Article 10 and not to talk about everything that has happened anywhere else, and therefore it is right to confirm Article 10.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u217	Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. I'll be brief, fellas, don't be afraid. Mr Pukšič encouraged me when he started implementing the budget. Certainly, the management of state assets is linked to the implementation of the budget. That is why, Mr Pukšič, I will read your information again. The budget deficit in the first half of last year was €900 million: at the end of the year, €600 billion. You have 854 million this year in the first half of the year; you say almost 900, and you say it will be 1 billion at the end of the year. It's hard to go together if you're six months away by the end of the year. That's what we're explaining and counting to you earlier, and how some of them went for credits. Yes! But Mr Pukšič, if you listen to your minister and if you listen to the President of the Government, you too are walking and you want billions and a half. And you're walking for half a billion. I don't understand what you want to discuss in this way. But since I'm talking to you, I'd like to take advantage of something else. The Public Finance Act provides that the budget for 2013 and 2014 should be in the budget by 1 October. October 1st is Monday. I didn't see that the government would take it this weekend. I think that since the Law on Public Finances has been in force, this is 1999, this deadline has never been broken. Mr President, I'm just asking if this deadline will also be necessary to ensure that the government coalition adheres to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u219	Mr. Josie Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u220	Thank you so much for saying that. Mrs Bratušek, until Janez Janša's term of office, this deadline has always been violated. And even after the government's mandate, Janez Janša was violated. In fact, I would now like to ask that any relevant answers to the situation of the previous mandate be given by the former Prime Minister, who sits here. Here we now face some simplified interpretations of the past and future situation. I think it would be appropriate for at least some of this pure wine, under the previous mandate and the work of the previous government, to be told by Mr Borut Pahor, who is sitting here with us. We are now listening to Mr Han, who was not a government official, Mr Weber, who was not either. The president of the former government is very quiet. And it would be wise for him to tell us who set up the AUKN administration. Was it politics, or was it profession, or were they born there on their own? To tell us how many times the AUKN representatives reported in the National Assembly. A few times, Mr. Weber. However, there was considerable intensity especially when the discharge procedure of the AUKN was initiated. At that time, we had nonstop some gentlemen from the administration of the AUKN in the National Assembly. Before that, we couldn't even get to management strategies, we couldn't even get to information, we couldn't do anything. But they were sitting there when we were taking decisions on the recapitalisation of Adria Airways. May Mr President of the Government tell us who managed the AUKN administration. Who carried out the recapitalisation order for the New Maribor Credit Bank? Who gave the warrant for that? May Mr President of the Government say that we will not be fighting here right now, who is more and less right. Mr. Pahor can tell. The strategy went very confusing. The government's decision was one. One of the ministers, on an order, I don't know who the other decree gave, and it came true. And it went 60 million money from the best companies to recapitalisation, and that's now worth a few tens of thousands or a few million more. May Mr President of the Government tell us who managed the country in the previous term. He was right here in front of me when he told me who the people who run the country were. Let him list the four names that made this country's fate in the previous term. We don't have to fight now. Tell Mr. President of the Government. He knows that because he's experienced it on his own. [[advertising from the hall]] Former president. And speaking of what has an impact on the decline in economic growth, Mr. former Prime Minister of the Government has said nicely, we have made a strategic mistake, we have underestimated the banking problem, and since there has been a cash outflow from the economy back to the banks, there has been a reduction in the credit scale, the ability of companies to be indebted. Then the firms had to pay the money back for the bank to survive, and there was no money for new investments. There was no money for companies that had good programs, products that were living companies, and they didn't get any money. Ask yourself how many credits Nova Credit Bank Maribor made this year for new loans to the economy. You can look at all of this. Now I'm asking what the problem is with this country. Is it that we have somewhat limited consumption, or that the banking system does not function and allocate funds to those who need it to open new jobs, buy repromaterials and sell products and spin these circles with some economic dynamic? That's the problem, Mr. Weber. If we buy, I don't know, a pound of bread more a day brings something, but it doesn't matter. We have lost on economic growth in that hard work: no investments, no exports, no I don't know what. Mr Former President of the Government can explain this well. If he doesn't want us, at least we can get you in the parliamentary group so we don't get as confusing information and interpretations as you do here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u221	Before I give the word "magic." Majdi Purity for the Procedural Proposal, I have such a proposal, in accordance with Article 67, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the speaker may speak only once about the same matter. The debate on amendments in the third reading is not limited in time, and this could take a very long time, so I would like to make this proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Article 67, paragraph 5, speaks of the fact that, on a proposal from the President, the National Assembly may decide that the speaker may only discuss the same issue once. Please check the voting devices. We are voting on a procedural proposal. There's 80 in attendance, 47 in front of 28. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 28.]] The procedural proposal has been adopted and is in force from now on. She wanted a mag on a case-by-case basis. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u222	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Well, because it's all going to be a bob against the wall and also my procedural proposal will probably float through Ljubljana. This is the case: we should discuss the amendment on the basis of the Rules of Procedure in the third reading of the amendments. I would suggest that if you have already decided to propose that everyone should only discuss once, so that the debate can be substantively discussed. I am sure that Mr Borut Pahor does not need a lawyer, but I should point out one procedural embarrassment. At any time from the opposition or anyone else wants to be answered by a government representative, he usually says to the chairman that it is a matter for a government representative to decide whether to speak or not. Now, however, we have had a very unusual situation. Although I know something little about rhetoric that was rhetorically very effective and for listeners and viewers, if someone sleeps badly, it is probably still involved. Very effective and convincing, when we have heard a few repeated reports, let the President of the Government repeat one thing. It may be a lapsus, but the President of the Government, as far as I know, is still in America, but there is no commercial reason why the former President of the Government, who, after being elected as an MP, would have had to answer the questions raised by the coalition MPs, as well as if someone referred to that diagnosis statement. If you remember it, I think Dr. Senjur, who also told this government that she did not make the right diagnosis to solve the crisis, in which we, when she first went into saving Zujf, forgot about the development, but now she will forgive a little more besides saving. When we are talking about these things, however, we should act consistently, and I am sure that Mr Tanko is so well aware of the rules of procedure, he has taught us for three years constantly about him that he is fully aware that he has made an incorrect procedural proposal and request. I am making a procedural proposal that you, Mr President, should, however, protect the integrity of Members of the Parliament and Members of the Parliament and also warn the Member that such a thing cannot be required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u223	Of course I agree with you mag. They believe that Comrade Borut Pahor will assess whether or not he will be involved in the debate. It's his free choice. I now give my word to Mr. Franz Puksich. So this procedural decision that we have taken is ex nunc, that's what we call forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u224	I really don't understand Mrs Alenka Bratušek, what she means by accepting Zujf and limiting spending, that in the mid-summer there was 854 million deficits to go up to billions and a half, I hope not, you say yes. If it weren't for this Zuif, Mrs Bratusek, we'd be climbing towards two and two and a half billion. Is that what you wanted? But it just doesn't work anymore. That cow that gave this milk, you milked it, she's gone. That's one. Secondly, as regards the budgets presented. Do you still remember the year you took 13 months of income and only 12 months of expenditure? I'm not talking about myself. I'm talking about the governments that were then. Or, when the budget was adopted, I think it was there somewhere in October for that year that expired. In short, a lot of this nonsense has been done, and I also expect that the budget in the National Assembly will be as much as ever. In view of the situation we are dealing with, both with the rehabilitation of banks and with this state holding company and formerly with Zujf, I believe that you believe that this is an abnormal situation in this country and also in the government and in all ministries.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u225	I used to take another warning from the mags. Majda Potter forgot to answer. Indeed, the majority of the debaters do not adhere to the amendment to the 10th article we are discussing, so I would ask you to stick to it from now on, to look at the amendment and to stick to the amendment to Article 10. Does anyone else want to discuss it? I'm going to get the applications for the debate first, and the word for the replica is mag. Alenka Bratusek. Mag. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u226	Mr Pukšič, I understand that certain things are difficult to understand, so I will repeat it again. You have 854 million deficits in the first six months, you're up to a billion and a half, but the National Assembly has only allowed you one billion in the balance. That's what I'm trying to tell you. You have a license for one billion and no more. You found out for yourself that you're going up to a billion and a half. Nothing about a billion-and-a-half debt! We're taking a happy step towards that. With regard to the extension of the financial year of 13 months. Alenka Bratušek was not at the Ministry of Finance at the time, but there was a Slovenian People's Party in the Government, of which you are also a part Mr Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u227	Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u228	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I ask myself, or so I will tell you why we feel that by setting up a holding company, the conditions for covert serial sales of state property are being established. Why do we feel that the introduction of a holding company is about creating the conditions for an additional untransparent multi-billion-dollar indebtedness of the country? Why do we have the feeling that they do not comply with the Minister of Finance's statement that bad investments by banks will not have a negative impact on the rest of the assets in the holding company? Why do I feel that they do not follow the statement of Minister Šuštersič that the establishment of the holding company will not have a negative impact on the budget? And why do I feel that in setting up a holding company also shows an interest in concealing responsibility for the poor investments made by state banks between 2006 and 2008? I could ask a lot of questions, dear colleagues and colleagues. You haven't answered these questions, your feelings are still like that, and that's not funny, that's sad. To hurry and not to give a clear enough answer to all the questions, as it is still a matter of having the rest of the state's assets. Why didn't you adopt a strategy on availability with Why didn't you take it? [[...]] The country's financial investments are very, very important. First, a strategy on the state's financial assets, then a law. You've got it all mixed up. When you make the holding, then you will find out what it makes sense to sell, how, how and what not. Well, we'll see, because you'll have a chance when you're so sovereign in your decision-making, when you're so capable. Here you go, gentlemen, do it and show me how capable you are! You will be watched by the Slovenian public. Just accept the responsibility if you're going to "infuse" the state property. Take responsibility today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u229	The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin, behind him mag. Branko Grims
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u230	Thank you very much. You know, so from one neutral point of view, actually, the debate is very interesting. Continuous readings on one side or the other. Now one side, now the other side says we've done well in the past. We didn't. We didn't do well! Look, according to my assessment, we've over-exploited public spending over the last ten years. We've been working too hard. We have put too little into development, we have not developed professions that are not bureaucratic, we have not promoted the development of the economy, or we have put too many obstacles in the economy. Labour legislation, bad, inadequate, one that discourages foreign investors. Any eyewitnesses won't lead us forward, there's got to be something done. Of course, political work has many bad points, but it certainly has one extremely good: no one is responsible for anything. That's good. Nobody! Today we can estimate that this government or this minister or this politician has done such damage, so many millions, so many billions, because no one is responding. This means that this is also irrelevant. We find solutions that will bring us forward. That's the key. And I believe that with the implementation of some of the opposition's proposals, it would be possible to make this law even better and to take into account some, and every time I almost call for us not to do what we have done so far. So far, we have worked in such a way that whoever was in power did not listen to anyone other than himself. This has not turned out to be a success. Some things should be listened to and implemented and good solutions found. Even today, we are too optimistic about how economic growth will happen. It won't happen, because we haven't done anything yet for economic growth. And I don't think that the fact that we owe Slovenia about 4 billion more is the best way to go. But if, of course, the only thing that's possible is right. I think the moment of sobriety has come. We have made all mistakes in the past because we have lived in one false belief that there can be no recession at all, that economic growth will be constant, that nothing bad can happen to us. This has not happened to us, but now is the time to shrink strength, not to divide too much and make decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u231	Mag. Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u232	Thank you. Good-bye to all of you! It is very interesting to hear again and again in such debates how we should not look back. But we need to keep looking back to see where we're going. That's from geometry, you need at least two points to see where that line goes. And so let's take a little look when you, like the argument, quoted Zuyf as saying that this is a key problem, where it led the opposite way. Exactly the opposite of the austerity measure towards the balance of public finances brought by Zujf, in the previous mandate at the beginning of the behaviour of the Pahor government you made yourself by adopting the first budget rebalancing which raised public spending by EUR 800 million. And what was the result? You have achieved the biggest decline in GDP in Slovenia's history, the fastest decline in production in Slovenia's history, the biggest increase in public debt in the country's history and the fastest increase in public debt in the country's history. Let us add the fastest and greatest increase in unemployment in the history of Slovenia. And these are the records that remain for all eternity. And the aim of these measures, which we are proposing today, is that no one will ever jeopardize these records of yours, so that you will remain recorded for history after the achievements they actually deserve, in the way that they deserve it. Unfortunately, Slovenia has not earned what it has experienced in the last three years. For this reason, I must say that it is incomprehensible that even the most basic development measures cannot be agreed. It was different in the last term. At the time when we were the opposition, we were able to take a look at the votes, and we supported practically everything that was in favour of economic growth. Now, when it comes to writing a golden rule into the constitution when it comes to unlocking a bank cramp, it's about releasing money that no one has today. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u233	Comrade Grimes, my colleagues are warning me. From the hall, they show me time-out and they tell me that I have to warn you, like all the next speakers, to stick to the amendment, because otherwise we'll be sitting here [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u234	I understand the truth hurts, but [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u235	By 5:00 a.m., we were talking about what someone was doing on June 5, 2003. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u236	Mr President, I understand them deeply. The truth hurts. For this reason, it is clear that in such a case everyone is protesting.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u237	No, no, that comment even came from the coalition. I think it's a general interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u238	In this case, Mr President, as you say, there is only something to be pointed out. More effective management of this country is one beginning that would mean a shift in the economic field in the part that this law wants to achieve when it comes to things where the country is also involved. But we all face together a problem that, by the way, was discussed by all the predecessors, and I answered them, Mr President, which is a question of finances that are not at present available to the state, not when you are talking about further indebtedness, because there is no reach on the international market due to low ratings, nor does it have a banking system as well as no one else. No more magic sticks, no more printing money, no more ladies and gentlemen. And that is why the only way is to go in a direction that increases the efficiency of economic activity. Regrettably, the area where they are associated with the ownership of the state or the parastatal funds at the moment is re-designated. This should be done with what is proposed. But not the way you defend it, but in a way that will maximize efficiency, but at the same time preserve that control and responsibility that is urgently needed – a responsibility that has not existed in the past. Unfortunately, we have not met with responsibility when it comes to debt, when it comes to everything we discussed earlier, in the past period, which is the legacy we are facing today. However, we want to face each other in a way that will enable Slovenian entrepreneurship to develop again. All this is what I initially tried to give in answer to your questions. As a solution, however, the law before us, which is appropriate, is good and I will support it, regrettably, without your amendments, which, according to the argument, I cannot really believe.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u239	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u240	Thank you very much. With regard to this amendment, which relates to the annual investment management plan, formerly colleague Gaspar reported to us and pointed out to us that we are the smartest. I don't remember any of us saying we're the smartest. But I'm surprised he's changing his mind. He recently claimed that Mr Jankovic was the smartest and most capable and that he would also succeed among the penguins in Antarctica. I think maybe these changes in conviction are due to personal growth. For the last time he claimed that Mr Jankovic was also the most honest man in the country. I believe that colleague Misic was in shock yesterday, as they said at the Presidential Palace, but today is another day and it should be appropriate to sober up in that sense, I think. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u241	Mr Jerovšek, amendment to Article 10.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u242	Look, these are obvious, you're the smartest, and the smartest, I don't accept them. I would really recommend that the second time he doesn't guarantee who's the smartest and who's the most honest because the cruel reality is dehumanizing him.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u243	Mag. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u244	There is also a little free debate in Parliament sometimes, and that is why we have a Parliament. I will not support Article 10 of the SD Amendment, because I am sure that all these amendments that have been tabled are significantly better than those that have been tabled by the SD. However, I would like to reiterate once again that the fruit of the text of this law is also due to the opposition, which seems to me to have cooperated properly, the government and the coalition have invited the opposition to this cooperation. Many proposals have been accepted on their part, but unfortunately they do not wish to say them today. In order to appease colleague Meh, energy will not be exhausted at the expense of the holding company, since this Article 6b clearly provides for the separation and purpose of the means. Comrade Music, it's true. The classification will be set in, the strategy will be set in, I don't think there's any fear. But, Comrade Misic, do you know that the Capital Society has created 427 million euros in losses in four years? Is that an effective management for you? We come too slowly in those years, when we should also think about the fall age of life, I am concerned. And that's why I think this marriage is better when it should be a means for long-term pension payments. But if there's gonna be a management like this today, then there'll be nothing. I am sure that this law will bring this, but of course we agree that this law is the responsibility of the coalition and the government, and we will accept this responsibility by pressing "for" today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u245	Anybody else want to discuss Article 10? Mr. Matjaz Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u246	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u247	I'm sorry. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič spoke earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u248	He's already spoken before.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u249	It's a replica. However, given that he was somehow mentioned. I assume you volunteered for the replica. Here you go, Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u250	Your assumption is correct. I'd rather not replicate, you know. But why not? Mr Jerovšek is a typical example of a man who has captured his own convictions for so many mandates. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, that's right. But if these are truly their own, this is progress, Mr Jerovšek. And I have a feeling you're just summarizing them. You've got me all wrong. You know, if I were 100 percent on the intelligence and smart decision-making of the government coalition to make the laws smart, then I wouldn't be worried. But one is when someone thinks they're smart, and another when someone's really smart. Indeed, he is the one who decides wisely and soberly and thoughtfully and thinks twice and does not rush or rush when we are talking about more than ten billion euros when we are talking about the rest of the state's assets. That's it. I believe that you will accept the classification to accept the strategy, but I tell you that I am a different opinion that the strategy is to give you answers, a lot of chamois, how and what and why and where we are going, only then do we adopt the law. The law allows the strategy to be implemented in practice. No, no, no. Then we'll change the law again. What's going to happen to the strategy? You will determine the actual strategy for managing capital investments and priorities, what to sell and what to keep, once you have seen what you have. Today we don't even know what we have. That's why we're selling. We have just sold the General Sailing and will sell some other investment, some other capital investment by the state of Slovenia, a strategic investment. I'm worried. Of course I'm worried. This must concern every citizen of this country. This behavior, like you're going today, you don't personally give me the confidence that you're making decisions in your head, and that's why my replica is in place. Mr Jerovšek misunderstood me because you are not sure and ready to do your work. Yeah, yeah. Ha ha. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u251	Mr. Matjaz Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u252	Very briefly. In fact, I really don't understand why this amendment cannot be accepted by the coalition. I don't understand. Today the ratio is that you are in a position to rule, we are in a position to be the opposition, for all these mistakes that we have made, we have paid the bill in the elections. Of course, with your promises, I can also say false promises, you've been given a mandate to rule. And I don't understand why it's so impossible to accept an amendment that says that the annual investment management plan will be approved by the National Assembly on the proposal of the SDH administration, which is called by the majority in the government, I really don't understand that. Why do we take this authority? I don't understand that. Now, I'm going to ask you a question, Mr. Secretary of State. In this holding company you also placed a trust fund for the decommissioning of a nuclear power plant. That's 150 million. Even though you have received a warning from the professional services that this fund should not go to this holding company, Mr Secretary of State. Why can't he go? Since you have been warned, we have a convention on nuclear safety and waste management and we have an interstate treaty. We're killing this fund, which has 150 million money, we know what we're gonna need this money for, we're gonna kick it into this holding company. Why did you do that despite the State Secretary's warning at the Ministry of Energy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u253	Anybody else want to discuss Article 10? Would you like to answer, Mr. Secretary of State? No, no, no. Someone wants to discuss Article 14 and the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u254	I'm sorry. However, I must mention the amendment to Article 14, because it is very important. The fact is, there's a legal void. This law does not provide for the procedure by which State property may be sold until a classification under this law has been adopted. From the adoption of the law until the adoption of the classification, there is a legal void where you can sell without the consent of the Government, without the consent of the National Assembly, whatever is owned by the Republic of Slovenia, I emphasise. In order to remove this legal void, we propose an amendment stipulating that a procedure should be carried out in accordance with a public offering, a public auction, a call for tenders and so on. You're under the law that property can be sold directly in a secret agreement, I'd say, in the President's office, in any minister's office or, if you like, in any inn, anywhere. Nothing binds you to not sell anything beyond all the rules. And we want to prevent this legal void by adopting this amendment. I hope you'll support this amendment at least this time and prove me wrong when I say the opportunity makes a thief. If we eliminate this opportunity, it is significantly less likely that this will happen, as I said, that gold will be sold under the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u255	Mag. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u256	I'm not going to support this amendment myself because it already contains the law. The law contains that until the adoption of the classification, the Government cannot freely dispose of state property and for sale also requires the consent of the National Assembly, which it seems, Mr. Weber, that you are unwilling or unwilling to read our amendments or are deliberately misleading. The additional amendment was also tabled today by coalition parties in which the Slovenian Compensation Society, DSU, Kad, Blue Insurance Company, PDP commits that the assets can be sold only with the consent of the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government until the approval of the classification. That means there will be no places, no sales under the table, everything will be transparent and transparent. My colleague Matjaž Han, we took that into account. The NEK Fund will be used deliberately and the Interstate Treaty will also be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u257	Anything else on the subject of Article 14? No, no, no. Then I am putting to the debate Article 21 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups. Here we have two amendments, namely the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u258	Unfortunately, I must express my protest because the coalition has restricted the opposition to discuss one issue more than once. That's why I'm not going to break this decision. However, I would like to express my protest that you have restricted the opposition in the debate. Just once, you can talk about one question and, of course, it is a very bad indicator of the coalition's functioning, which actually wants to prevent the debate from taking place on very difficult issues in a way that restricts the opposition. This has already been the case in the consideration of the Public Finance Balance Act, where you have also restricted us. Restrict us here. In this amendment, I would just like to say this, that we propose that the members of the Supervisory Council be appointed by the National Assembly, with a majority of all Members and Members, on the basis of a preliminary hearing at the national working body of the National Assembly. These supervisors will have more powers than many ministers in the government, especially since they will go to holding. Most ministers will have fewer powers than these people who will be in the supervisory world. And it's only right that they present themselves to the National Assembly. It is right that they present their qualities and it is right to tell us how they will manage state property. That's what we suggest. We also propose that the President of the Republic propose candidates to the Supervisory Board. We also propose that the representative unions employed in companies managed or managed by holding companies be allowed to participate in the management of this company, so that these members are also appointed to the Supervisory Board. We want to maintain Parliament's role to know who will manage this property, we want to involve the President of the Republic in proposing his candidates or at least getting information on how to manage state property and, in our opinion, also employees in all these companies, representing 12 billion assets, we propose that they have the right to manage this property. This is the proposal of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u259	Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u260	Thank you. In my second reading, I have pointed out that in Article 22, I see as a weakness the fact that under conditions only the active knowledge of the English language is indicated. Let us leave it aside now that the CV no longer speaks of active knowledge, but is otherwise defined. The second thing is, once again in the National Assembly, those who are to defend the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia and have a lot of sublime words to say to this account, here you have allowed the possibility that the condition for communication is English. Let us also let it be clear that there is not one official language in the European Union, that the official languages are all the languages of the Member States of the European Union, that there is a tendency in the European Union's multilingual policy to spread other foreign languages as well, as in the Council of Europe, where French and English are exchanged. I am simply pointing out what might be small signs for someone, and for me a clear sign that the policy of this coalition is still related to conviction – and here it is applied – that Slovenian managers, as they say, are not capable of such functions, but that these functions are normally reserved for those who will come from abroad. It's too bad you didn't give me Latin then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u261	I'm opening the application. We have a debate on Article 21 and the amendments to Article 21. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u262	The amendment to Article 21 proposed by the Social Democrats refers to the fact that the Supervisory Council is to be composed of three representatives of the unions, then three representatives on a proposal from the President of the Republic, one representative on a proposal from the Commission of the National Council for the Supervision of Public Finance, where the majority of the opposition has the opposition, and two representatives on a proposal from the Government. I hope that you understand that such a proposal simply cannot be supported well-intentionedly because I do not see how the President of the Republic has any connection in the management of state property, except in some way that you plan and expect the President of the Republic to be closer to you in the future – valuable and politically, that this may be the reason. And I don't even understand why the unions in the supervisory board should have three representatives. On the one hand, you keep stressing and throwing at us how this government should finally take responsibility and do something, and then we get your proposal, which I hope I am not conceited about, if I label it a little confusing. However, that Slovenian state property will be managed by trade unions, depending on what they are doing to us or what your governments have been doing in pension reform and labour market reform, I really can't imagine that. That's why I won't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u263	Mag. Marko Pogačnik, after him mag. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u264	President, thank you for your word. I will not support the proposed SD amendment, but I will give some reasons. On the one hand, it is important who is the proposer of the members of the Supervisory Board, but I think that the goal of all of us here when we adopt this law is only one thing that professional, competent and experienced people will come to the Supervisory Board, who will be able to somehow direct the administration. It is therefore essential that clearly defined criteria and criteria be laid down for who may be a member of such an important holding company. On the proposal of the opposition, we have also sharpened these criteria and criteria. For example, the election of a member of the Supervisory Board requires an absolute majority in the National Assembly. We followed the OECD guidelines and rules: he cannot be an executive officer in the party, he cannot be a member of the executive branch of the authority, 10 years of work experience. We'll also see the results back. That means whoever put a company in bankruptcy won't be able to go to the supervisory board and not the administration. This is not the case with the GDD. We're aware, so we've sharpened the criteria. With regard to the appointment of the President of the State, honourable Mr Weber, I will repeat the words: the President of the State is not the English Queen, and the President of the State is elected in the same way as we were gathered here. The government assumes responsibility for this and should therefore propose it. However, since we are aware of the importance of managing this holding company, one place belongs to a member of the Economic and Social Council, which means that we have opened the door to the social partners, and on the other hand we have opened the door to the opposition. That's not what it's been before. However, with regard to the members of the Supervisory Board, respected Social Democrats, you may also propose to your member.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u265	Mag. Stanko Stepišnik, behind him mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u266	Thank you so much for saying that. This article speaks of a supervisory council. The task force, I think she's very close to this holding company. But the rest was open, and it was said that this would be resolved by some approximations in the National Assembly. The Supervisory Board – 9 members, the coalition proposed that 3 plus 1 propose the Government, Group 4 and the Commission for Public Finance Supervision 1. The positive Slovenia, however, had a counter proposal, namely 2 Government, 2 Parliamentary Group, 2 Public Finance Supervisory Commission and 3 Economic and Social Council. We have discussed this quite a bit on the Committee on Finance. It has also been said that this will somehow try to get closer, but to this day it is not, so Positive Slovenia will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u267	Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u268	Your Honor! Mrs Potrata expressed doubts about the definition of the requirement for foreign language knowledge, specifically English, and said that we should recall these shortcomings when we speak in Parliament once about sovereignty. But this is a tragic misunderstanding, Mrs Potter, because today we are talking about Slovenian sovereignty. The sovereignty of modern countries is no longer primarily defended by the military in the process of globalisation, defended by successful entrepreneurship, with a successful economy. The most we can do for Slovenia is to make that part of the economy, which is now under the leadership of the country, as effective as possible. At the same time, we can do more by opening up the space for additional start-up of Slovenian entrepreneurship. This is what we can do to strengthen Slovenian sovereignty. However, you have done the greatest damage in the previous mandate with a catastrophic debt, because the debt then takes on sovereignty, which is seen very badly in the case of Greece. For this reason, the objective that we must follow today in adopting this law, that all the provisions are as clear as possible and that their first objective, in addition to all the other values that we are obliged to respect to make this area of the economy, is the real sector in which the country has the greatest influence. For this reason your amendment is not good, because in a number of parts it is contradictory, confusing and at the same time one who is most decisive in the efficiency of management, it is the Government, even taking part in this competence and transferring it to another authority of the State which, after the cessation of executive powers and does not have this responsibility. Because of this amendment, it is not wise to accept, because of the interest of Slovenian sovereignty, that we have the most efficient economy and that we will allow for the fastest development of Slovenian entrepreneurship. For these are today those who defend and strengthen our sovereignty.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u269	Replica, mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u270	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to apologize to you first because my comment on the language relates to Article 22. And now that Mr Grimes has been seduced by my debate, he has put me in a position to say that I am defending or supporting the amendment to Article 21. As far as the army is concerned. That's why I supported the admission to NATO because it was at the referendum. I'm an anti-militarist, as far as this is concerned. As for other things about sovereignty, culture and language is its inherent part, it is the immune system of all society. That's why it's so much worse for this government to deal with macolo over culture and intelligence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u271	Until the 21st. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u272	Thank you very much. I do not support this amendment, I think it is actually dangerous and inappropriate, and I am surprised that a group of Members has made such a proposal regarding the choice and composition of the Supervisory Council. This amendment is a discreditation of the National Assembly, an insult to the National Assembly, for the National Assembly is working for an uncreditable, irresponsible, worthy of honor and dignity. The mission to elect three members of the Supervisory Board shall be taken by the National Assembly. In fact, he takes more of them and carries them to other organs. I am almost certain that at least the current candidate for the President of the Republic who is sitting there, Mr Pahor, is not agreeing with this amendment of yours. For he, and I must admit this, has always respected Parliament. He also respected the dignity of Members, and I must admit this to him, which is not always the case at present. I must also say that this amendment of yours is controversial from another point of view. Since yesterday, the credibility of the current President has been greatly shaken because he has been supported by the entire Gerontocracy supported by Mr Jankovic last year. Many things would have been different in this country, more credibility, more responsibility. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u273	My colleagues warn me you're not discussing the amendment, and they're right.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u274	Mr. President, of course! The President of the Republic shall appoint members of the Supervisory Board after their amendment. Can I talk about it?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u275	Yeah, you can talk about the amendment, yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u276	Of course, Pahor is also part of this because he is a candidate for president. And totally serious and responsible. Unfortunately, our President's reputation at this time is now bewildered by yesterday's events, with yesterday's disclosures and what will happen. And you [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] I don't know, Mr. Misich predicted he'd go cold for the last time. For this reason, I am asking my fellow Members not to tear down the image of this Parliament alone. We have been elected in the general democratic elections, and whoever is ashamed of it and does not accept our responsibilities as entrusted to the people, but does not belong in this Chamber, they do not belong in this Chamber. And once again, I am sure that Mr Pahor was not impressed with this proposal, even though he is running for President of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u277	Procedurally, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u278	What we're listening to, this demonstration, I'm hoping that a lot of people here might be embarrassed. I'm sorry, I don't want to hear this anymore. Of course, we're going to obstruct this part to the end, and you guys are going to talk "afne paddle" because that's how you've already "punched" everything you can "punch". I'd rather sit there and do something useful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u279	Mr Matjaž Han has the floor. He's quitting. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u280	Ladies and gentlemen! Parliament should not sound like it does too often, and we should not behave as we often do. Everybody. Today we are adopting the most important laws in this period, called holding, banks, and we are talking about everything that does not belong here. And I urge you to be here for this moment because you do not accept the proposed deadline for amending the law, which would ultimately mean that we have reached consensus here in Parliament. It may be our fault that we don't understand this, opposition, it may be my fault that we don't understand it. It's your fault, ladies and gentlemen, it's yours, too. It is very easy to speak or talk about how the state's sovereignty depends on many factors, but, ladies and gentlemen, also on workers, on people, on those who are probably still working today – but they are working and working all the time, and they are also unemployed. If you do not accept what we propose or do not do here, you are in violation of the Workers' Co-ordination Act, which says that one third of the workers, the workers' representatives, must be on the Supervisory Boards. You're breaking up. And as far as I'm concerned, I trust the union, I trust the workers, because I'm basically a worker, and I know that the union deserves, too, that workers deserve, that in such important things as holding, this is a real state holding company with all the property we still have, despite not even deciding in Parliament what we are going to do, so that we don't give workers this opportunity and the possibility that they can be those who are extremely important and important to our sovereignty. We have put ourselves in a position to be on the one hand — and I am not on the other — that is, the one we are deciding, the government that is supposed to be deciding, and the one who should be deciding, on the other hand those who have no right. That's not how it works. I suggest that you consider this composition of the supervisory councils, that you do not allow us to exclude the workers, and that we behave here in this temple of democracy and dignity as appropriate, as people think we deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u281	We concluded the debate on Article 21. Who wants to discuss Article 22 and the amendment of the Social Democrats Group and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 22? No, no, no. Article 27? Not at all. Article 30? No, no, no. Article 32? No, no, no. And paragraph 33? No, no, no. Article 36? Yeah. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u282	Thank you for your word. Here I will explain to Mr Pogačnik what he had in his amendment. I think that was the amendment to Article 21 and he was citing incorrect data. Here I can say he didn't read our amendment, and I'm yours. Indeed, we have set out in this legal void until a classification has been adopted to also determine the method of sale. And there is no method of sale in your amendment. You still do not agree that the property can be sold on the basis of a public call, public bidding and so on. That's still not acceptable to you. And this is an essential difference between what we proposed at the time and what you are proposing only in this 36th article, but of course we want to make even more clear in our amendment the obligation not only to give consent to the Government and to the National Assembly, as you wrote in your amendment, but also to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance in our amendment give consent to the sale of the insurance company. So there's still a void that makes it possible to negotiate under the sales table. You have improved the text, and we also welcome this, in a way that what will be agreed under the table will then have to be agreed upon by the Government and then you will come to the National Assembly. I have no doubt that the coalition will support what has been agreed under the table. But there's a high probability that the deal under the table doesn't run out of commission. And you're not solving this during this transitional period. With our amendment, this is resolved, with yours, unfortunately, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u283	Mag. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u284	President, thank you for your word. Read these two amendments again. One has already been confirmed, and the other I hope it will be today. This means that, during this transitional period, also those capital investments received by the Court in the management of the AUKN are insured. And of course, the Court, Kad, Blue Insurance, PDP, will not be able to sell matters without the Government's proposal and the consent of the National Assembly during this interim period. The sales methods are probably not part of the law because it would be too extensive. However, the commitment here is clearly written here that after the adoption, and I hope that even after the implementation of this law, the Government must inform the National Assembly of the classification within one month. The classification will cover the structure of capital investments to be intended for strategic, for sale and, of course, for those of particular importance. There will also be clear sales methods. But I'll do it again. If someone works under the table, at least on the basis of an article in today's Finances, which is hypothetically possible to speculate, it is Kad, President Kad, who is also a prominent member of the SD, who was also a member of the working group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u285	There is no further discussion on Article 36. I am opening the debate on Article 36a and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. There's no debate. And also Article 37 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. There's no debate either. Since no one wants to discuss the amendments anymore, we are moving on to a decision on these amendments. Check the cards. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 2. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present for 46, against 5. [[It's 46 votes.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 9. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, for 50, for 5. [[She was voted for 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment of Article 10 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present for 9 to 45. [[It was voted on by 9.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Amendment of Article 14 of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, for 7, for 48. [[It was voted for by 7.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Now we have the amendments to Article 21. First of all, we are voting on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, for 7, for 49. [[It was voted for by 7.]] [[Against 49.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. And the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 21. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, for 50, for 4. [[She was voted for 50.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Then the amendment to Article 22. First of all, we are voting on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, for 7, for 48. [[It was voted for by 7.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. And now we are voting on the amendment under order number two. This is an amendment to the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, for 51, for 4. [[It's 51 votes.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment to Article 27 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, for 50, for 5. [[She was voted for 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment to Article 30. First of all, we are voting on the amendment of Article 30 of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, for 7, for 48. [[It was voted for by 7.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. And the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 30. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present for 49, against 5. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 5.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 32 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present for 49, against 5. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 5.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 33a of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, for 50, for 5. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments to Article 36. First of all, under order number one is the amendment of Article 36 of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, for 7, for 48. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 48.]] The amendment has not been accepted. And the amendment under order number two, this is the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 36. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 53 to 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 36 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, for 50, for 4. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against four.]] The amendment was accepted. And the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 37. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, for 50, for 5. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] The amendment was accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. As the draft law is not harmonised in certain points due to the amendments adopted after the third reading, the Government has drawn up a harmonisation amendment to Articles 3, 11 and 41. You have received the amendment on the bench and I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Secretary of State, Dr. Dejan Krusac, to present the harmonisation amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As you have already mentioned, the harmonisation amendments are due to the fact that certain amendments have been adopted in the second reading which have led to internal non-compliance with the bill. Allow me to briefly introduce these individual amendments. First of all, the harmonisation amendment to Article 3 is inserted in Article 3 before the dot 'and other regulations and the acquisition and disposal of real estate'. This harmonisation amendment is a result of the amendment to Article 36, paragraph 4, adopted at second reading. The amendment concerns the extension of the management provision also to the acquisition and disposal of real estate, which makes the text of the provision inconsistent. The amendment to Article 11 is then amended to read: "The Code lays down the principles and rules of conduct of companies where SDH has a capital investment. The Management Code shall be adopted by the SDH Supervisory Board." Explanation. As a result of the second reading amendment adopted, the text of Article 11 is inconsistent with Article 23, paragraph 5, and Article 24, paragraph 2, of the proposal. The last amendment is to Article 41, the second paragraph being deleted, resulting from the amendment to Article 28 of the second reading law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u287	Anybody want a word? He doesn't want to. Then I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Articles 3, 11 and 41. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u288	Thank you. In the Group of Social Democrats, we would like to reiterate that holding is the most imprecise form of capital investment management. This can be justified by the experience of holding Istrabenz, which has proven to have damaged its owners. We can also find that Zvon damaged its owners. And if we also look at experiences in other countries, let's say, Austria had, from 1946 to 1995, also a holding company that produced 35 billion losses during this period. Italy also had a holding to this effect in the middle of the 1970s until 1992, and this holding took on a total of 58.2 billion losses. This is a way of managing which direction, you say, we must go to Slovenia. That is why we will not support this law in the Group of Social Democrats, because we believe that it will seriously jeopardise the functioning of state-owned enterprises, endanger hundreds of thousands of employees in these companies, and we want it not to happen. But I also wish that my vote against this law was for this very reason. I am sure that everyone who votes against this will vote for the same reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u289	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Mag Group of Members Marko Pogačnik, then Mr Richard Braniselj, also on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u290	Honorable President, colleagues, colleagues! The SDS Group will be pleased to support the proposed law with all its responsibility. The SDS Group expects that this law will also be enforced because we assess and are confident that in this way Slovenian state property will be managed efficiently, rationally, transparently, so that it will also allow for the further development of Slovenian companies. Management's been bad so far. Change was needed. The government has put the proposed proposal on the table. Today the amendments were largely supported. I think that the outcome of such management will come in the future. As for holding in Austria, yes, they had the same problems. Österreichische Industrie Gesellschaft is one of the most successful companies today. Why? Because until then, as you mentioned, high losses were managed in the same way as they are now. Then the country began to retreat, and success is here.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u291	Mr. Braniselle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u292	Thank you, President. Why does the Slovenian State Holding need to be given an opportunity? Because of the fact that all the key investments of the Republic of Slovenia are concentrated and managed in one place, for the first time in the history of independent Slovenia, the search for administration is also based on an international call because the law brings the most powerful anti-corruption clause, since the Slovenian State holding company eliminates the great shortcomings of the former AUKN, namely the holding system means the application of the provisions of the Company Act and thus the strictest determination of compensation liability under the rules of the Economic Companies Act. The Supervisory Board shall be composed in a balanced and professional manner. In the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, we propose that we give the Slovenian State Holding Group our chance and finally have someone prove that state property can be managed not only well but supremely. We will support this bill in the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u293	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u294	The New Slovenia Group will support this law for two reasons because it introduces a clearer line of responsibility and better governance. Finally, we will get a clear and unified national asset manager, and we will also look forward to better results from this title.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u295	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u296	We will also support this law in the Slovenian People's Party for two reasons. First, the central management of state property in one place. This will make it easier to control, more transparent, more efficient management can actually be measured. Even by international standards, we will be able to verify how well we do with state property. Secondly, the law provides for the adoption of a medium-term strategy for the management of state property. Finally, in Slovenia we will get a document that will tell us what we want, what is strategically important, what we can try to be noble ourselves and what are the things we can leave to the private spheres. We'll have a long-term vision. Once again, I would like to point out that we strongly reject the clues about the sale, the theft, the theft of state silver or what remains, precisely because of irresponsible behaviour in the past. This seems to me to be a cheap policy that is not based on the facts addressed by the expert group composed of experts from all parliamentary parties. It is a law that is basically not coordinated and prepared only by Members or individual parties, but by a group of experts and good experts on this issue. I therefore reiterate that in the Slovenian People's Party we will also adopt this law with full responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u297	Mr Franc Jurša will explain the votes of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u298	Thank you so much for saying that. I wish everyone a good evening. We will support the law in our parliamentary group. We justify the matter by having quite a time to coordinate certain matters in this law, all together, both the coalition and the opposition. We all gave this opportunity before the holidays together to experts from various political parties representing interests in Parliament. I think a lot of this has come together, but of course everyone cannot be satisfied because they are not strictly represented by their interests. I recall the previous mandate period when the AUKN was established. The then government had this interest to establish it. And it did. There were also a lot of comments in the opposition at the time. The same story came out now. I am confident that the holding company will play its role and that the management of capital investments in companies will also be successful. However, we must not forget that these companies that we have seen on the front page of various newspapers in the last period, if you like, I will now also mention Krka, will not only manage the holding. This Krka will have its own management, it will have its own supervisory board, and the state will have as much influence as it has in this company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u299	Mr Matjaž Han will explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u300	Thank you very much. I will vote against the holding company against this law because I don't think it will benefit this country. I will also vote against this because no amendment we have given to the Social Democrats has been supported, nor has the one who has made it clear that the National Assembly would have any control over this. Holding will have no responsibility, as I said before, until the National Assembly. According to public information, it will also have no control by the Anti-Corruption Commission and the Court of Auditors. Because of this, we fear that this will be a very impenetrable story. What else does it matter? We'll somehow transfer the assets to holding, not management. What's going to happen to the ladies and gentlemen? Even those dividends that we have now received in the budget, because of this law, we will not now receive them in the budget by the holding company. So at least it will be that we get 100 million less money in the budget than we got from dividends. That's why I just can't support such a marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u301	Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u302	I will not support the law because the promise that can be read in the introduction of the law, the objectives of the principle and the main solution of the bill, remained unfulfilled in the law. The main solutions are also to define an investment management strategy, define an annual investment management plan. None of this law, like many others, defines the long-term objectives pursued by the Republic of Slovenia as the owner of these investments. It is true that when centralisation and concentration are, more efficiency can be discussed. But there is no economic efficiency in society, but also social efficiency, which the government does not pay particular attention to. Whether it's transparent or not, we'll see. For those who have a strong political influence, it will likely be clear what they are doing, and for all others it is very questionable. It's only a matter of time. I do not hope to say that the Supervisory Board is so composed that it provides the best management. The Supervisory Board will only be made up. And you keep saying that it depends on the qualifications of individuals whether they are qualified or not. Now, just a word about the offered hand. For the last time, Mr Marko Pogačnik gave me an account of what proposals the Social Democrats had adopted in the working group. I'm glad that you just said from this that the Social Democrats thought of Kad, the Court, the Blue Insurance Company, that's a pensioner, and it doesn't seem to forget which party represented the interests of the pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u303	Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u304	I can't support this marriage for more reasons. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that from now on we will be working on a normal procedure, that we have accepted everything that was necessary under the urgent procedure so that we can now work on the normal procedure, according to normal procedure. We have ruled out the public, the public hearing, and I am strongly protesting this. Also, ladies and gentlemen, we no longer need the National Assembly. The voting apparatus, with the Budget Merger Act, the Government has everything it wants to do, and also with the holding company and all that, we don't need the National Assembly anymore. I warn you, once again, that we accept with the Slovenian State Holding and Bad Bank or with the solution of bad banks something that will severely cut off Slovenia's space. I draw attention to the consequences that these decisions will result in without public consideration. There are no workers and there is no co-ordination. Ladies and gentlemen, self-governing would be good sometimes. And if it can be a laugh, if you'll excuse me, it's not right for me to do what I'm about to do. I have been in large cases in self-government, and this has never happened, let's say today, and I'm in Parliament for the first time. Why haven't we discussed the AUKN report? Who prevented the handling of the AUKN report here in the National Assembly? So we shut it down without listening to their report. Ladies and gentlemen, the country will have an impact over a handful of individuals from the Slovenian government and political parties. I'm against it!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u305	Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Well, for what time we're going to be together, we're going to see how fast we're going to get a credit rating right now, how many new jobs are going to be, how will the lending process change, and so on. Then we'll do the inventory. I will say one grave sample: sale of Slovenian steel, Slovenian steel industry. Even now it's under seal, it's impossible to know what was going on, the millions went here and there, it was done in the previous Yang government, and that's the result. And that's how it's going to be with this holding company, and it's going to sell a lot of stuff. I will vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u307	Mag. Marko Pogačnik, explanation of your vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u308	Thank you. I myself will support the proposed law mainly because I want Slovenian state property to be managed more efficiently. This law allows, the law contains a series of safeguards that will not be able to produce headless sales of state property in order to be made in a transparent manner. The law allows Slovenia to finally have a state property management strategy, to know where we are going, what we want and, in particular, to define clearly what we want for those strategic companies for which they will determine what we want, what we want with them, what we want to do, what we want to do, what we want to do, what we want to do, what we want to do, what we want to do, what we want to do. Security guards, such as the anti-corruption clause, public information, have ensured that what is being interpreted by the Social Democrats will not happen. It is good that the opposition has cooperated and that together we have improved the purity of the law. With regard to pensioners, I believe that the main merit of this is the coalition contract of the Government, which also states that 10% of the sale of state property to Kad for the purposes of future pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u309	Mr. Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u310	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have already announced, and I am now also predicting in my name support for this law. From almost a quarter century experience in the economy, I swear that central management is better than dispersed management. We just had an accident with the AUKN in Slovenia. On the open stage, we looked at the fighting between the previous coalition. And I will look under the fingertips of the Slovenian state holding company as long as I sit here at number 90. And I particularly want and expect competent people, heart people, those who control corporate governance, and those who know what business ethics are. I want to, I am not a fortune teller to sign neither the light nor the black future of the Slovenian state holding company. However, I expect this to be good for all citizens of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-28-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u311	We will therefore decide on the Proposal for a Law on Slovenian State Holding. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 6. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. We also need to conclude a legislative procedure for a proposal for a law that was not the basis for the drafting of an amended proposal for a law. Therefore, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposed the following decision: Proposal for a Law on the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia, EPA 487 /VI, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the MEP mag. Alenka Bratušek and Mr Jani Möderndorfer are not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, for 50, against no one. [[She was voted for 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 6th meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed on Tuesday 2. 10 a.m., 12 p.m. with a question from the Prime Minister of the Government. Have a nice weekend!
