ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 9th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened under the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member of Parliament and the following Members: Mag. Jana Jenko, Janja Klasinc, Jakob Preseknik, Dr. László Göncz, Mitja Meršol, Ivan Simčič, Zoran Jankovic, Janez Vasle from 14.30, Dragutin Mate and mag. Stefan Tessel. I invited representatives of the government to all the agenda items, as well as the representatives of the Council of Justice, to the 3rd item of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 9th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Tuesday 20 March 2012, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of a single item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received with reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting on the agenda. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 9th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law amending the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons by Emergency Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The government's not with us. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the Committee's position, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mag. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u2	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! At today's 14th urgent meeting, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Taxation of Legal Persons, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration, with a proposal for a review and adoption following an urgent procedure. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance attended the meetings of the Committee, which joined the meeting a little later, and representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view. In its general comment, the Legislative and Legal Service recalls the retroactive application of individual legal provisions, given that the applicant does not provide sufficient support for the assessment of the fulfilment of the constitutionally prescribed conditions for the return of the solutions put in place. In the context of specific comments, the Legislative and Legal Service proposes to recast Article 2 of the draft law by describing the content of the amendment, since the basic provision refers to a material basis which does not include the proposed amendment. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the amendment, a coalition group was tabled to Article 2. In the opening supplementary explanation of the articles, the Government explained that the proposal was set with the aim of taking action and regulating the 2009 transitional period by extending it in 2011, 2012 and 2013, because, due to the slow development of eco-fuel motor vehicles, there are still no motorized trucks on the market that meet the conditions for the application of the EUR VI eco-standard vehicle investment facilitation. The text thus sets the period for the application of the above-mentioned relief for 2011, 2012 and 2013 for investments in buses with an engine meeting at least the emission requirements of Euro IV and for investments in motor vehicles with an engine meeting the minimum emission requirements of Euro V and such enforcement for 2011 respectively. In the context of the explanation of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the representative of that service stressed that the general comment contained in the written opinion remained, while the specific comment to Article 2 of the amendment of the coalition groups was duly taken into account. In the context of the discussion on individual articles, support was expressed by representatives of the Government to the amendment of the coalition to Article 2. The Committee adopted the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups to Article 2 of the legislative proposal and adopted them in accordance with Article 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendment is adopted is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended draft law is also an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, I give the floor to Roman Žveglič on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u4	Mr President, Mr Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today, the two legal novelties are practically prolonging the existing arrangements for investment incentives up to and including 2013 or to extend the period during which the taxpayers may impose a reduction in the tax base for the purchase of motor vehicles and buses corresponding to the minimum emission standards of Euro V or the latest Euro IV standards. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we see this measure as positive and we look at it with two aspects. The first is the environmental aspect, as this measure undoubtedly encourages the rejuvenation of the rolling stock in both freight and passenger transport, which will also be more environmentally acceptable due to the legal requirements of the novel. However, we know that the road traffic of large vehicles contributes quite a high proportion to the total amount of greenhouse gas emissions. The second aspect of this law is of a tax nature. This is a relief which, of course, brings a few million euros less directly into the corporate tax budget. Therefore, there are many concerns and some criticisms about this requirement mainly because we are in the stage of universal saving. Although this is a case of almost negligible figures in relation to the entire budget, I believe that we will have the opportunity to face another similar measure in the coming months and that there will probably be similar questions about why certain solutions reduce budget revenues. In doing so, it seems very important to us in the Slovenian People's Party to stress that facilitating and reducing the taxation of individual segments are never short-term measures and never have immediate positive effects. However, tax policy is one of the rarely available tools within the regulated open market of the European Union, which can be used by a single country to promote economic activity. Although we are solving the crisis now, we must also think about the future, because competitiveness is an essential aspect of the European Union's functioning. Facilitating investment in this sector, increasing the income available to carriers enables survival and further development. Such arrangements shall be adopted with a view to ensuring the existence and further development of enterprises in the industry that will operate in 10, 15 years from now and will pay a substantial amount more into the budget than the current state revenue outturn. I think it is right that this is also an attempt to understand the wider political sphere, especially the Slovenian public. Indeed, political mandates only last for four years, but measures of the right and successful economic policy of the country must be imposed for a much longer period. With today to tomorrow we have lived the last decade, and now we see where this has led us. It is also right to start thinking a little bit longer and to begin to understand the policy of creating a favourable business environment of the country itself. We keep talking about how Slovenia is in the heart of Europe, its opportunities, its potentials, but most of the time we are blocking ourselves because we want the results now and immediately. Because we want to be liked today, the results won't bring political points in a few years. The European Union is a set of countries that cooperate but also compete. Such and similar measures strengthen our competitiveness – not for today, but for tomorrow and for future generations. I am convinced that this new law will primarily help the road transport sector, which today, due mainly to its extremely high fuel prices, is actually facing major problems. That is why we will support him in the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u5	Thank you. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Joseph Horvat has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives of the Government, respected young observers of the parliamentary event, everyone's welcome! The amendment of the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons regulates only tax reliefs. More specifically, it is a reduction in the tax base for the purchase of motor vehicles for 2011, 2012 and 2013 that meet the ecological requirements, namely buses with an engine that meets at least the requirements of euro IV and for trucks with an engine that meets the minimum emission requirements of euro V. The new law will also apply to investments for 2011, which we consider to be important, given that the tax accounts for 2011 are being issued by the end of this month. As a result of this relief in investing in trucks, motor vehicles and buses, with appropriate eco-standards, the estimated reduction in inflows to the 2012 budget will be €3.2 million. Investment in environmentally acceptable vehicles stimulates other European Union countries in different ways. According to the basic programme, Nova Slovenija is committed to taking such political and economic decisions that will ensure the conservation of natural resources and the environment for future generations as well. We are committed to reducing the environmental burden and, in line with these programming platforms, the New Slovenia Group supports the legal solutions that follow this objective. We are committed to tax policies that contribute to the achievement of environmental objectives. Transport and auto-transport companies, in particular micro and small enterprises, independent entrepreneurs and individuals are in a difficult situation due to the economic recession and their ability to invest in fixed assets has been reduced. With appropriate tax policy, the country must create an environment that encourages economic operators to invest. Action must be taken immediately by facilitating the tax burden on economic operators. The tax relief will apply, as has been said for 2011, as the tax accounts for the previous year are still pending and no correction of the tax accounts will be necessary. The New Slovenia Group will complement the proposal for a law amending the Law on Taxation from the Income of Legal Persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u7	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Positive Slovenia, he shall have the word mag. Stanko Stepinšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President, for my appointment – Stepišnik, yes. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, I would like to point out that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has started with such a small complication. All too often, we are faced with the fact that we cannot work on the Committee in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because the Government does not provide us with competent interlocutors, such as those required by the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, Mr President, I ask you to ensure that ministers and state secretaries participate in the meetings of the National Assembly and the working bodies of the National Assembly. Amendments to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons 2009 also included provisions that taxpayers may apply for tax on the income of legal persons investing in the purchase of buses and freight motor vehicles in 2008 to facilitate investment in buses whose engines meet at least the emission requirements of Euro IV. However, in 2009 and 2010 they were able to apply allowances for investments in buses whose engines meet at least the emission requirements of euro IV and for investments in trucks whose engines meet the minimum emission requirements of euro V. The transitional period for such facilitations expired with the tax year 2010. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia addressed an initiative to the Ministry of Finance at the end of 2011 to extend this transitional period. The proposal for this Act regulates the situation in 2011, 2012 and 2013 when, due to the slow development of organic motor vehicles, there has not yet been or will not be a vehicle with an engine that meets the conditions for the application of an investment relief, that is, a freight vehicle with an engine corresponding to the euro VI ecological standard. The draft law provides for a solution to the effect that for 2011, 2012 and 2013, a relief can be granted to invest in motorized cargo vehicles with an engine that meets at least the emission requirements of Euro V and for buses with an engine that meets the minimum emission requirements of Euro IV. The proposal is geared towards increasing competitiveness and reducing emissions. In Positive Slovenia we will confirm the changes to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u9	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, he shall have the word mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u10	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Representative of the Ministry of Finance, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! With the amendment of the Law on corporate income tax, 2B has reintroduced investment aid for certain equipment and intangible assets, including for motorized freight vehicles which meet at least the emission requirements of Euro VI. A transitional provision provided for the recognition for 2008 of this relief also for motorized cargo vehicles meeting at least the emission requirements of euro V. With the amendment of the corporate tax law, this transitional period was extended to 2009 and 2010. In addition, a transitional period for 2008, 2009 and 2010 has been set for the use of relief also for investments in buses with an engine meeting the emission requirements of Euro IV. This transitional period is extended to 2011, 2012 and 2013 for investments in buses with an engine meeting at least the emission requirements of Euro IV and for investments in trucks with an engine meeting at least the emission requirements of Euro V. The reason for this extension, according to the applicants, is that, due to the slow development of organic motor vehicles in 2011, it was not possible to purchase a truck with an engine meeting at least the emission requirements of Euro VI. Equal development dynamics are also expected in 2012 and 2013. On the market, however, there are Euro V and Euro EEV freight vehicles, which is an improved standard compared to Euro V. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the proposal is good because it has positive effects on the economy and promotes investment, it has an impact on economic growth, as it follows the objective of acting or regulating the situation in 2011, 2012 and 2013 when, due to the slow development of organic motor vehicles, there are not yet no motor vehicles on the market that meet the conditions for applying an investment relief, namely, freight motor vehicles with an engine corresponding to the euro VI ecological standard. This law seems necessary to us because of the possibility of applying a tax relief already in 2011, i.e. in return, until the submission of the invoice is even by 31. 3. 2012 and gives the possibility to submit an adjustment to the accounts under Article 54 of the Tax Procedure Act. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group supports the proposed law amending the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, in view of the above.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u11	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Matthew Frangež has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u12	Respected and respected! Social Democrats will support both the Law on corporate income tax and the Income Act, thus prolonging the validity of the investment relief for economic operators and independent entrepreneurs for the purchase of vehicles, buses, emission standards of at least EUR IV, and for trucks of at least euro V. We will not fail to extend the measures already in force and proposed by our government. However, when we talk about investment relief for motorists, we cannot get past something else. It's the excise policy we're facing. The fact is, oil and oil prices go up to the sky. On the basis of the price of oil movements and expectations, the Office for Macroeconomic Research and Development has estimated that the judge will grow by another $10, have already revised economic forecasts and estimated that this type of oil price movement will affect global recovery and will result in a further decline in economic activity by a further 0.2%. Here they are simply raising excise duties on oil derivatives, so we now have the most expensive petroleum derivatives, except for, I think, Italy is still the one that has higher, Austria, Croatia and Hungary have lower prices. The price of electricity and scissors for the economy and the household is being negatively closed. What's going on? It happens that the cost of living and operating costs, the cost of living of households and the cost of operating companies are increasing as a result of the increase in these excise duties and, on the other hand, economic activity is falling, meaning that this space, from which one can live, is becoming less and more soon to rest. The prophetic words of the Magi. Andrej Visiak during his previous mandate, when criticising excise policy when the price of oil was still substantial, was significantly lower than it is today. Here we can rediscover one major gap between words and actions, not only the largest government party that has promised a different excise policy, a different excise policy to ensure competitive prices of oil derivatives, promised at the conclusion of a coalition contract, contracts for Slovenia, the entire coalition. Where is this excise policy now? We can accept investment reliefs for car carriers, which will have very, very little effect compared to the fact that car carriers no longer have room for breath. Social Democrats will support the proposed investment reliefs while at the same time asking the government where excise policy is promised.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u13	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Civil Code, Bojan Starman has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u14	Nice hello to you all! Members of the National Gazette will support the proposal for amendments to the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons and thus enable the introduction of vehicle purchase facilitations for 2011, 2012 and 2013. I think that this change is necessary, and we also support that this has happened in time, and it is said that these reliefs can also be implemented in 2011. This is a small stone that is supposed to go according to forecasts and through various election pre-programmes and coalition contracts in order to improve the conditions of management. The second part, in the area of income from income, is, of course, still time, and we will deal with it. I think it is one of the important points to in some way ensure more real and lower taxation of work and thus make life easier for the economy and for the people as well. Then there are some other laws, and there is also a provision for a change to the Law from the profits of legal persons. I hope that we will also discuss additional measures as quickly as possible, which will allow for better management conditions. The point is to ensure the growth of our competitiveness and therefore this is a small stone. We will be happy to support this amendment of the law as well as the amendment of the Income Act, which is the next item. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u15	Thank you. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Maria Plevčak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Greetings to all government representatives and fellow Members of Parliament! The position of the DeSUS Group is as follows. We have two interconnected financial laws on the agenda today. They relate to the area of tax reliefs related to investing in the purchase of trucks and buses with more environmentally friendly engines. As we know, such reliefs have been in place for several years, since 2008, and both basic laws, which are now envisaged for consideration in the National Assembly, have provided for these amendments up to and including 2010. By means of a proposal for a law, we extend the tax relief measures for investing in trucks with an engine that meets the minimum emission requirements of Euro V and for buses with an engine that meets the minimum emission requirements of Euro VI until, including in 2013, 2013. Such a measure is necessary to facilitate investment in the motor vehicle types mentioned above, as there are currently no more environmentally acceptable Euro VI vehicles on the market that meet all the conditions for the application of the allowances. The proposal promotes more environmentally acceptable forms of engines, which means positive environmental impacts. The positive effects of the proposed proposal will also be demonstrated in the economy, as further investments are being encouraged and the growth and development of the transport sector, which is an important economic sector in our country. In the position of the DeSUS Group, we are forecasting support for the two laws under consideration, and in this regard, we will not advertise or present our views in the debate on the proposal to amend the Income Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u17	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the bill today in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income by Emergency Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Dejan Krusac, State Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u18	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared a proposal to amend the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act. This is an amendment proposing an extension of the transitional period for the use of an investment facility in motorized cargo vehicles with an engine meeting the minimum emission requirements of Euro V and for buses with an engine meeting the minimum emission requirements of Euro IV for 2011, 2012 and 2013. The same transitional period was already in force for 2008, 2009 and 2010. The transitional period ended in 2010. From 2011 onwards, it is possible to implement an investment facility for those motor vehicles only: hybrid or electric passenger cars, hybrid and electric buses and motor vehicles with an engine meeting the minimum emission requirements of Euro VI. In 2010, due to the slow development of eco-fuel motor vehicles on the market, it was not possible to purchase a freight motor vehicle with an engine meeting at least the emission requirements of Euro VI which could be qualified for relief from 2011 onwards. Equal development dynamics are also expected in 2012 and 2013. On the market, however, there are freight motor vehicles with a Euro V and Euro EEV standard, which is an improved standard compared to Euro V. The draft law thus follows the objective of acting or regulating the situation in 2011, 2012 and 2013 when, due to the slow development of organic motor vehicles, there are still no motor vehicles on the market that meet the conditions for applying an investment relief, namely, motorized trucks with an engine that meets the euro VI ecological standard. According to the proposal of the law, the 2011 taxpayers could apply an investment relief with the Institute to correct the tax bill. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly to support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u19	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the Committee's position, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mag. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In fact, it's a twin, so to speak, both marriages have the same content. They apply to the same relief and, in essence, this law regulates relief for independent entrepreneurs, while the previous law provides for relief for legal persons, and therefore the comments are similar or analogous. However, this law has also treated the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body by emergency procedure. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which also examined this law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and made comments on the provisions of Article 2 of the bill and pointed out the retroactivity of the bill. The proposed law has been amended by the coalition parties to Article 2. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the representative of the Ministry of Finance gave a more detailed presentation of the purpose of the law and the proposed solutions. In this way, it is actually easier to buy trucks and, of course, buses with an ecological component are extended until 2013. In the context of the explanation of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, her representative also drew attention to the retroactivity of the solutions proposed and referred to Article 155 of the Constitution. It also mentioned the comments to Article 2 which were taken into account and adopted in the proposed amendment of the coalition parties. Following the introductory discussion, the Committee, in accordance with Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, identified and adopted until the amendment of the members of the coalition groups to Article 2. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the adoption of the amendment, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u21	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Joseph Horvat has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The novelty of this law is fully linked to the amendment of the Law on corporate income tax and the correction of the existing law on income in relation to the amendment of the Law on corporate income tax. In the position of the New Slovenia Group, we announced support for the amendment of the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons. It is perfectly logical that, for the same reasons, the New Slovenia Group will also support this amendment of the Income Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u23	On behalf of the Group of Members, he shall have the word mag. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members of the Government! The Minister, the euro EEV, stands for the euro IV engine. In Positive Slovenia we have promised constructiveness, so we will support the amendment of the Income Law because it brings benefits to citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u25	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, he shall have the word mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek. Mag has been reported. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek will be Patricia Shulin instead.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u26	All in attendance, all in attendance! The proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act provides for the extension of transitional tax reliefs for freight vehicles with an engine meeting at least the emission requirements of euro V and for buses with an engine corresponding to at least the emission requirements of euro IV for 2011, 2012 and 2013. The deadline for submitting tax invoices for 2011 is 31 3. 2012, therefore, the application of the law at today's meeting would allow taxpayers to include data on the application of tax relief in the account itself and not only in the correction of accounts. This would reduce the administrative burden on taxpayers. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u27	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Matevž Frangež. [[He's not here.]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u28	Thanks again for saying that. Members of the Civil Code will support the amendment of the Income Act, because we are talking about the substantive same law as we said in the previous paragraph, only the beneficiaries are others. That's how we think it's right for this law to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u29	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Roman Zveglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u30	Your Honor! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware that, with the current extremely tight financial situation and the large austerity measures that we are promised, it is essential to take measures to facilitate the economy's business and thus improve its competitiveness. One of the stones in the mosaic of measures is also the proposed amendment to the Income Act, which is a minimum, but to many individuals, whose primary activity is related to the transport of goods and people, improves the conditions for investment in fixed assets and also reduces administrative burdens. However, the reason for this change lies in the slower development of eco-motor vehicles, since, for example, last year, it was not possible to buy a motor vehicle on the market that met at least the emission requirements of Euro VI, which is currently included in the reduction of the taxable base for taxable persons engaged in freight transport activities. However, it is essential that these changes are adopted today so that the taxpayers can benefit from the proposed changes already in the 2011 account, the deadline for submitting them within a good week. As already stated at the previous point in terms of revenue losses, the budget in the Slovenian People's Party is expected to be more than compensation in the coming years for other tax and non-tax revenue resulting from increased economic activity in the road freight sector. Nor is it possible to ignore the positive effects on the environment, as such forms of engines that are subject to the proposed novelty are more environmentally acceptable. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will therefore support the proposed amendment to the Income Act, as we are convinced that everyone, as well as a small stone in the mosaic of measures for the tax and administrative burden of the Slovenian economy, such as the proposed law, is as important as the larger measures that await us in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u31	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timetable of the meeting, we will decide on the bill today, as part of the vote, in half an hour. This concludes this agenda item. I also interrupt the 9th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue in half an hour, which is at 15. 15.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u32	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving to a vote on the proposals for decisions, so Members and Members of Parliament are asking you to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Law amending the Law on corporate tax, the urgent procedure. Since no amendments were tabled in the second reading to the amended bill, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would make the proposal inconsistent, so we can move to a vote. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the termination of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income by Emergency Procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government have not warned me that because of the amendment adopted on the home labour body, the bill would not be harmonised. That way we can vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. First of all, 3.a – Proposal for the appointment of members of the Competition Protection Commission of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of competition. The proposal was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly, which proposes that they be appointed to the Committee as members of Diana Male Abramovich and Helena Belina Jalil and as a member of Boštjan Kavšek. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. The panellists are not present, so we can proceed to the vote. In accordance with Article 12, paragraph 4, of the Competition Prevention Act, the appointment of members of the Competition Protection Commission shall be decided by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. The groups have already submitted proposals for the Commission's composition, namely: mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš – Ambassador Group of Positive Slovenia, Mr Zvonko Lah – Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Matjaž Han – Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and Mrs Iva Dimic – New Slovenia's Group of Ambassadors. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Mr Matjaž Plevelj, Deputy Secretary-General, will be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to the proposal for a commission? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, all 78 of whom voted in favour. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it the commission has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, three votes shall be delivered to the Members and Members so that each Member shall come to the table of the President and shall state the name and surname. It shall be voted on each of the three ballots to surround the word 'yes' or 'against'. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and there shall also be an invalid vote, which shall not clearly indicate the will of the Member or Member. In accordance with Article 12, paragraph 4, of the Competition Prevention Act, each proposed candidate or candidate will be appointed if the majority of Members and Members present vote in favour of her or her. We will vote, as usual, in the hall, in the voting booths. The Members and Members will place the completed votes in the voting box, which will be in the Chamber, at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask the Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in voting for you to come with me to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 3:30 p.m. and will last until 3:45 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in meeting again in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u33	We continue the adjourned meeting of the assembly, with consideration of the suspended 3a. points — Proposal for the appointment of members of the Competition Protection Commission of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of competition. I will read all three records of all three or both candidates and candidates. First, the minutes on the finding of the outcome of the vote on the appointment of Boštjan Kavška as a member of the Competition Commission of the Public Competition Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of competition. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 22 March 2012. 80 ballots were distributed, 80 ballots were delivered. One ballot was invalid; 79 votes were valid. Nine Members voted against. 70 members voted against. Mr Boštjan Kavšek did not receive the majority of the votes of the Members present and was therefore not appointed as a member of the Commission. Minutes on the conclusion of the vote on the appointment of Helena Belina Jalil as a member of the Competition Commission of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 22 March 2012. There were 80 ballots distributed, 80 votes cast, one vote invalid, 79 votes valid, 8 votes in favour, 71 votes in favour. Ms Belina Jail, candidate, did not receive the majority of the votes of the Members present, so she was not appointed as a member of the Commission. In addition, the minutes on the finding of the outcome of the vote on the appointment of Diana Mužinič Abramovic as a member of the Competition Commission of the Public Competition Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of competition. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 22 March 2012. There were 80 ballots distributed, 80 votes cast, one vote invalid, 79 votes valid, 8 votes in favour, 71 votes in favour. Ms Dajana Mužič Abramovic did not receive the majority of the votes of the Members present and was therefore not appointed member of the Competition Commission of the Public Agency for the Protection of Competition of the Republic of Slovenia. As none of the candidates has received a sufficient number of votes from Members and Members, I will discuss this in accordance with 12.e. a Article of the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act informs the Government, which within 14 days submits a new proposal to the National Assembly for the appointment of members of the Competition Protection Commission. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposals of the Court of Justice for election to a judicial function, with proposals for conclusions, point 3.b. The Council of Justice submitted proposals to the National Assembly on the election of candidates for judicial office to the courts of the District Courts at the Regional Court in Novi mesto and the District Court in Ljubljana. There is no representative of the Council of Justice. The proposals were addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as a mother working body reporting in writing and submitted proposals for conclusions to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision. Please check the voting devices. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of Alenka Kobe to the District Court of Justice in the Regional Court in the New Town. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against one or one. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the decision has been taken and that Alenka Kobe has been elected to the district court in the District Court in New Town. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Katja Stritih to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 15. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that Katja Stritih has been elected to the District Court's seat at the District Court in Ljubljana. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Eva Shekli Jamnik to the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 69 votes in favour, 8 votes in favour. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the decision has been taken and that Eva Shekli Jamnik has been elected to the district court in the District Court in Ljubljana. I am also putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of Alice Sekolec to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 74 votes against 3. [[The vote was 74.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the decision has been taken and that Alice Sekolec has been elected to the district court in the District Court in Ljubljana. We move on to consideration under 3.c Proposal for a decision appointing members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Jani Möderndorfer to present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u34	Nice greetings, Presidents, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! On behalf of Positive Slovenia, I would like to draw attention, in particular, to the National Assembly in the past, to the well-known backstages that always happen when it comes to dealing with the FIHO world. Indeed, even with this mandate or this election, it has been more than clear that, in fact, even on the Mandate-Election Commission itself, it has not been possible to make clear clearly what is right and what is wrong. We are familiar with the complications, the documentation alone, which gives rise to reasonable doubts as to the correctness of the selection of members and members of the Foundation of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations. The decisions of the Mandate-Election Commission for the expulsion of their candidate object to the Union of Blind and Invisible Slovenian Associations, as they do not agree that the powers of their candidate are disputed, while the same powers of the other candidate were not questionable. In addition, we were all informed yesterday that certain applications for membership in the FIHO world should be unlawfully eliminated. This is recalled by the Association of Retired Persons of Slovenia. They oppose the exclusion of the candidate on the basis of non-compliance with the provisions of the third indent of point 10a of paragraph 1 of the law. This is opposed to the fact that the Metlika Pensioners' Association, the President of which is a candidate, cannot run as a single legal person for funds of the Foundation, as it does not meet the legal conditions for this. Therefore, the President, I would also ask you, when you are only to chair the meeting below, to make a procedural proposal, in accordance with Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to postpone the decision to one of the following meetings or until the complication is resolved. I ask you, Mr President, that you consider this procedurally and that we decide on this after the discussion is closed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u35	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion. We will decide on a procedural proposal to postpone the decision to one of the following meetings. Any group of Members may present an opinion on this. Does anyone want to do this on behalf of the Group of Members? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then we turn to a vote on the procedural decision to postpone the decision on this point. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. We can move to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 33. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 33.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Under 3rd time we are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion so that we can move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of mags. France Rozman as a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of four years. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 22. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 22.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration under point 3.d of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council – on the basis of the sixth indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. The draft decision was tabled by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Procedurally, Mr. Möderndorfer. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, President! In the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the RTV Programme Council, on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17 of the Law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats in accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, we propose that the decision on this matter be postponed to one of the following meetings. However, the procedural proposal is based on the fact that Article 17 speaks of the fact that no person should be elected or appointed to the Programme Council at the time of appointment or during the five years preceding the appointment of the political parties. According to the information available to us, Mr Levstek is a member of the Executive Committee of the Municipal Committee of the Party of SDS in Ribnica. That is how we want to examine whether this data is true and then at the next meeting we also decide on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u37	Thank you for this procedural proposal. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Ambassadorial Group of Positive Slovenia, Jani Moderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u38	We had a completely similar proposal. Therefore, I propose that, since this has already been said and that I do not drag this time and that we do not lose it, we postpone this decision to one of the next meetings, in accordance with Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u39	Thank you. We will vote on the procedural decision to postpone the decision on the proposal for a decision. Does anyone wish to present their position on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] Then we vote on the proposal for a procedural decision. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 44. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 44.]] The proposal for a procedural decision is not adopted. We can move to a decision on the draft decision appointing Vinko Levstek as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council pursuant to the sixth indent of Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act for the period until the expiry of the 2010 RTV Slovenia Programme Council mandate. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, Mr Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. I think that at this point, however, we must be aware that if Mr Levstek receives the majority support, he will act in the RTV body in contravention of the legislation and whatever this body adopts will in fact be adopted in an illegal way, so in the Group of Social Democrats we will not vote in favour of this proposal, because at this point it is the only way to vote against and prevent the illegal functioning of the Programme Council of Radio and Television. We regret that the procedural proposal has not been adopted because we could really remove all the dilemmas in this regard, so the procedure continues and I hope that so much discretion in this Chamber is that this proposal is rejected at this time and that a procedure for the appointment of a new member who will not come from a number of political parties and who also performs important functions in these parties. In short, the law is very clear in this regard, and I hope that you will respect the legislation when voting, especially when it comes to radio and television, which also have an important impact on the formulation of public opinion. I hope that it is in the interest of all of us that, at least after the composition of this opinion, there is, for example, not too much of the political influence of each political party. This is certainly a great responsibility for Members and Members of the SDS, but, as I have said, in the Group of the Social Democrats, we believe that, because of the incompatibilities of the exercise of this function, we will vote against Mr Levstek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u41	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u42	In Positive Slovenia, of course, we will vote against, but let me point out one simple fact. The candidate we are voting on today has been proposed on the basis of the dismissal of the former candidate, who, for the same reason, had to be replaced on the Mandate-Election Commission. So it's basically about making fun of yourself. The fact is that instead of Mr Matevž Caserman – because of him, because he was an official in the SDS, the whole process has actually been repeated and in fact we have received a new candidate for Mr Vink Levstik, who is once again a member of the SDS Ribnica Executive Board, so published on their websites. It's not about any speculation, but it's simply about respect for the law. Therefore, I would point out that we should gather this common sense, so that we will again find the logical facts on the Mandate-Election Commission, because otherwise we will again have the same problem on the Mandate-Election Commission for the second week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u43	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, all those who comment on who is a political party's official would do well to read the statutes of the Slovenian Democratic Party. It says who are the officials, who are the authorities of the party and who the president of the municipal committee is the official of the party – it is me in Ribnica. The members of the Executive Board at local level shall not be party officials. Also in the opinion you received in the previous case with Mr Caserman, it is clear who are the party's officials. It writes exactly what I have just said: the presidents of the municipal committees are party officials because they operate in the party's world, the world of the party is an organ at national level. No one else has the right to participate or to act on behalf of the President at national level — the President of the Municipal Committee. The candidate shall meet all the criteria after being able to apply for the seat of a member of the Radio Television Programme Board of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Matjaz Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote against [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u47	Just a minute. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Well, individually, Mr. Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Of course, I will vote against it and the arguments made by Mr Tanko do not convince me. If this is how we explain who is the party's official, as Mr Tanko said, then I will suggest to the Social Democrats that we amend the statutes and that the official is only the party's president, and that we are not all party officials and we will be able to run for various positions. So a little hygiene and mind in the head, gentlemen of the coalition, will make it much easier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u49	Thank you. Since I've noticed more requests for explanations of vote, please sign in. Check-in is on. To explain his voice, Maja Potrat has the word "Majda Potrat".
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I don't know if it's a party's statute to decide who's a political official or whether he's a political official in the light of the position he's in – and that's an organ in the party and he's a political official. Notwithstanding the fact that five members of the Programme Council of 29 appoint the National Assembly by political affiliation according to representation in Parliament, the exclusion factor in the Programme Council is a limitation on the other political function. And a member, whether he is or not – now according to our statutes, my colleagues have already said – then we can change the statutes of the parties and therefore we will justify who can be represented for any function or not. But we can let this go, but it is possible to talk about the fact that the bill-makers and all those who are the authors of this law have talked about how the programming world is unpolitical, here you have typical evidence of political action. The least I would expect from the President of the National Assembly is to stop the vote on the decision itself, which appears to be a problematic decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u51	Thank you. Let me just say that I cannot stop the vote on this decision on my own. We have already decided on a procedural proposal to postpone the decision. Mr. Roman Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Madam President. It's true you can't, but you can protect the law. As President of the National Assembly, you can tell our colleagues from the SDS or quote Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act, which is clear [[Quote]] : "The Programme Council may not elect or appoint persons who were members of political parties' bodies at the time of appointment or during a period of five years prior to appointment." [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] That's it, I can't believe it. They still think that's it! We're not talking about officials. I also do not understand why the National Assembly should take into account what the SDS Statute states. I understand that even the SDS Executive Committee is talking about what the Government should do or instead of the Government should decide, but here we are deciding on things that are legal. And in this legal process, there is no word on what the SDS Statute provides. Stop fooling around! Don't talk! My colleague Tank's explanation was an explanation of what is in their statute, the political party's statute, the definition of an official. But I told you the definition and the article of the law, my dears! Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act Slovenia is clear and speaks of no one being appointed if he has been a member of political party bodies for five years; and the candidate we have is, of course, a member of the political party body! And that's SDS! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u54	I think we are once again witnessing one of the precedents that continue to be repeated in this mandate when we see a very arbitrary interpretation of the law, which has been forced by the current largest government party. I'd like to challenge Mr Mag. Grims, who is undeniably the only author of this law to interpret as the author of the law how they then intended to interpret the organs of political parties. That would be useful. The law is at this point in the magic. Grims succeeded, is very precise and clear and says that members of political parties’ bodies cannot be members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council. The law does not refer to the fact that the parties' authorities are at national level in this regard. If Mr Levstek is a member of the SDS Executive Committee in Ribnica, it can be concluded that he is a member of the political party body, indeed at the local level. More! The Lord, who today will be the coalition by overcoming the existing law on RTV Slovenia, is also, in fact, the councilor of the municipality of Ribnica. That is how we will appoint or appoint a person to the Programme Council, who is an undisputed political official, a member of the political party body, and thus will be able to adapt legislation smoothly. But I don't think this is the first or the last case.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u55	Mr. Jani Möderndorfer. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Dejan Židan, an explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u56	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Of course I will vote against it, but there is something else I want to say. Mr President, you cannot escape your responsibility. You have been warned here today that it is going, and it is quoted, for an apparent violation of Slovenian law. The National Assembly, for which you are also responsible, must not violate Slovenian legislation. If you have, Mr President, doubt, with all the strong services, 300 and more employees in the National Assembly, I suggest you take a break, consult with the legislative service and come up with information on what the legislative service is thinking about such a complication. I believe that the planned National Assembly, when you are aware, cannot take decisions which are contrary to Slovenian law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u57	Let me explain once again my role, which I'm sure you know. As chairman, of course, I cannot, alone as one in relation to the remaining 89, put myself in the role of the one who will judge whether something is legal or not. Of course, I can assess this for myself and take this into account in my vote. Anybody else want some? Procedurally, Mr. Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u58	Mr President, I am procedurally proposing that the Legislative and Legal Service give an opinion as to whether a member of the SDS Executive Committee, the SDS Executive Committee of the Fishery, is a member of the political party's body or not, and that, of course, it gives us a clear idea whether we are voting today in accordance with legislation or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u59	I think things have been said so clearly that anyone can judge and interpret the law. Voice explanation, Mr. Tanko. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u60	Mr President, you yourself have proposed, if procedurally, a vote, which is why I call on you. You used to say you didn't have a role to play. Well, you can't escape responsibility even if you have an Audi A8.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u61	If that's what you thought you needed, fine. Good. Procedurally, Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u62	Your Honor, Mr President, I propose that you direct those warmest Members to the Internet, which is an interesting source of information, and that is why I am also striving for his freedom. You will find on the SDS website when you, of course, stop laughing and take time for serious things, including the SDS statute, which has a chapter called the SDS Authority. If I don't take too long, I'll just read them. Of course, it is the authorities of the public authorities, as provided for by the Political Parties Act. The SDS bodies defined in this Chapter shall be: Congress, Council, SDS Executive Board, SDS Chairman, SDS Expert Council, SDS Supervisory Board, SDS Member Group in the National Assembly and SDS Council Council Council Council of the Republic of Slovenia when formed. These are the organs of SDS. The municipal committee, however, is a form of territorial organisation which has nothing to do with this. The only member of the national authorities shall be the President of the municipal committee. According to the logic advocated by this statute, which is clear from it, we could ask the bigger question for it. The chairman of the municipal committee, as has been said, is sitting here between us, this is Mr Jože Tanko. That is to say, if you follow the statute of SDS and claim that in the given case I think it is necessary, then the matter is perfectly clear. There are no voting reservations, but of course everyone has the perfect right to vote on his conscience. Just like always.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u63	I shall first conclude on Mr Jakić's procedural proposal. On the basis of Article 66, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure, the President shall assess whether a specific legal question must be resolved at the meeting by means of the Legislative and Legal Service. I estimate that all the facts have been clearly presented, that each person can create his own assessment of what he or she holds or what the correct interpretation of the law is and therefore vote on. Procedurally, someone else wanted it. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u64	Thank you, President. In accordance with Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, second paragraph, which refers to "if, on the basis of a discussion, proposals for decisions or opinions are to be drawn up, the President shall terminate the consideration of this item on the agenda and the discussion shall continue following the submission of the necessary proposals for decisions or opinions". If the SDS colleagues consider that someone is not a member of the party's body and of similar interpretations they have given, let us give them the opportunity to actually submit this in writing. And when we have the material on this, the mother's working body can also meet again, and then, of course, as chairman, you will call for the continuation of this meeting and this item on the agenda when this position is obtained. On the basis of oral tradition, if I may say so, however, it is difficult to buy an explanation that someone who is an active political official of the SDS party is a person who could, of course, meet the conditions of Article 17 of the RTV Act, who clearly speaks about the fact that no one can be elected to the Programme Council, who, even in the past five years, operates in any of the bodies. So, even for a period of five years, we need to take a look. By breaking this point, presidents, but this is really up to you, you will allow all of this to be verified. I propose that you terminate this point in accordance with Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u65	See, even in accordance with this paragraph, so second paragraph of Article 71 of the Rules of Procedure will not be suspended. I'll say it again. The arguments were made very clearly on both sides. On the basis of common sense and logic, everyone can judge the correct interpretation of the law. Procedural? Mr. Franzege procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u66	Mr President, there is a serious danger, on the basis of this common sense, which you call for the National Assembly to adopt a decision in a few moments, contrary to the law and order in force in the Republic of Slovenia. All the facts are known. However, as one of the Members, I do not trust in the common sense of this House, which would say, "Okay. There's something wrong here, let's check things out." And that is why, as President, President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, after all, also a doctor of law, I remind you, it is only you who can prevent a very clear and evident error of law at this time, because it is a mistake of law. This is an arbitrary interpretation of a law to which there is actually an official or political party body. What is the purpose of this article? The prohibition on members of political parties' bodies being members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council is intended to prevent excessive political influence. This can be achieved by the President of the SDS Ribnica or a member of the SDS Executive Committee Ribnica, the Councillor and the Deputy Mayor of Grosuplje of the SDS type.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u67	Mr. Frangez, can you make a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u68	My procedural proposal, therefore, is to protect the integrity of the National Assembly as chairmen of this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u69	What I just heard was not a procedural proposal. The proposal for termination has already been twice a day, on two different business bases. I've both assessed that it's not necessary. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I can procedurally, but I can also explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u71	One or the other.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u72	For members of bodies [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u73	Procedural proposal or explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u74	There may also be a procedural proposal. For members of the RTV authorities, this is the true programming board or supervisory board which cannot be appointed candidates who are members of political party bodies. And this is regulated by Article 26 of the RTV Act, by the way, of the Supervisory Board. He is appointed Marko Laznik, a member of the SD, a member of the municipal board, and is in the supervisory board of RTV. However, the same provision of Article 17 applies as for the Programme Council. Dear colleagues, why different criteria? And I propose that on the basis of this, because this is not excluded, because this is not an exclusion criteria for us to vote, to decide on this matter. The SDS authorities shall define the statute at national level. The law merely refers to an arrangement that each party may otherwise have. It's different with you, it's different with us. The law is binding on the basis of the statute. And respectable colleagues from the SD, because these things bother you so much, read Article 24, paragraph 2, and you will find that you have the same problem in the RTV supervisory board. Why is that? Why do you not propose to withdraw your member from the RTV Supervisory Board there, and Article 17 of this Act applies? The rules for the authorities of the RTV Council are the same, they are laid down in law, for the Programme Council in Article 17, for the Supervisory Board in Article 24, in conjunction with Article 17, but they are the same criteria. And I propose that, on the basis of these same criteria, given that what matters have already been carried out, this vote should also be carried out as it is. Because there is absolutely nothing wrong with this proposal. A municipal councillor by law is not an exclusionary criterion. He's a mayor. He's not a councilman. If you read, Mr Frangež, the exact law, then you will also read what it says in that part of who cannot run. There is no municipal councillor, Mrs Potrata, who should not run for RTV. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u75	That's the way it is. We already have an opinion on this from the Legislative and Legal Service of 23. 1. 2012. It has been addressed to the Mandate-Voluntary Commission, Mr Möderndorfer, you could point out this. So there is no need for this opinion to be produced again. And in ten minutes, we can put it on your desk. I interrupt the session for 15 minutes, this time you will get this opinion, you can look at it, you can further shape your own position, and at 5 p.m. continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u76	Dear colleagues and colleagues, since I see that most people no longer read this opinion, I think the conditions for continuation are met. You may have seen the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service. I would also point out that there was room for this discussion and clarification of these issues also on the working body and that this interim interruption was also intended for everyone to have a closer look at the statutes of the Slovenian Democratic Party on the Internet, and that, again, I will say, on the basis of all the information we have and we will make a sound decision. However, we would like to proceed with the explanations of vote. I'll call again for an explanation of vote. Check-in is on. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although I didn't intend to come forward, I have to, because my colleagues and colleagues from the SDS Group have managed to convince me that even when you are wrong, you are right, so I will vote against. But here in this explanation, which we have received and on the table, I find that in fact in this explanation it nicely states that "by virtue of the arrangement in the statute of a particular political party", it is said that the statute is above the law. If you so define that a member of the party is not an official, but is it not morally disputed whether he is a member of the party. Because, see, we are talking about a member of the Council of RTV Slovenia. And if we had, I will say, a little more moral responsibility would not have appointed a member of the SDS party as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Board. There are so many professional people in this Slovenia that you can choose them, even if they are on your side. In this case, we do have a conflict of interest, and I don't think that's right, it's a bad trip. As for the fact that they had previously appointed their members as members of the RTV Programme Board, it is also wrong, but we will continue to make this mistake again. But, remember, one day some others will come into power, and they will be able to be as resourceful as you are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u78	Thank you. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u79	Mr President, given that you've challenged me in the middle of this before, I should have known by now. You know that this document was published in Lotus Notes and is accessible to everyone. But since we've gone now, like you said, everyone reads the website carefully, of course I didn't go to the website myself, because I have to say I don't care at all. However, the fact is that this dictatorship, which is very clearly written here, is a "programme council or the provision of independent and impartial management of their tasks, as well as the grammatical record itself, of the provision that the prescribed restriction refers to members of political parties' bodies who, in order to carry out a certain function within a party or membership in the body of a party, are also more politically active or actively involved in the operation and decision-making of a political party and thus more exposed to political influence, meaning that the scope of the provision or the prescribed restriction does not extend to political party membership", blah, blah, blah. Now explain to me all those of you who debated today, of course, contrary to this, and claimed that it had nothing to do with any body and no political function. Is anyone in the municipal council who is a member of a political party not a member of a political party and has no political influence and nothing? But what's at stake for me is that some of you hide behind word games like a member of the body or whatever. When the marriage was signed, it was clear exactly what I meant by that. And so today all those who will vote for, of course, keep a fig in your pocket at the expense of taking one walk around the law, inside, in the middle of the National Assembly. Immoral, perverted!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u80	Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u81	Thank you. I'm sorry, I didn't hear the call. In my explanation of vote, I can only confirm once again that voting against something else will be justified, even because of this opinion that we have received from the Legal and Legal Service, where it is also very clear that "the party's body by theory is in itself the one who assumes a group of people or an individual who performs a function for others". Surely, colleagues from the SDS party, you will have to confirm that the executive committee is certainly a group of people who perform certain tasks for others. According to theory, it has the status of an organ of a political party. And also given that some members of the Social Democrats, who are supposed to be also named in the RTV world, will be listed above, we need to clarify, however, that they are not members of the party's organs, so they are not contrary to this article. That listing was likely only in the light of the protection of this appointment procedure. On the other hand, I would like to reiterate that they are not members of the party's organs. This Article shall refer specifically to the authorities of the Party. In addition, the previously appointed one was actually proposed by employees, not by a political party, because it is even closer to what the RTV Council is supposed to serve, that is to say that it provides some impartial information to the public. This is a very important, sensitive body and any doubt about it, I think it would be better if we put an end to this before it is voted on. Since there is no other option than to vote against it, I will vote against this proposal myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u82	Thank you. Explanation of the vote Mrs Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u83	Thank you for your word. Given that I personally also had doubts as to how to make the right decision with regard to all the debaters before me, I listened to my colleague's advice, and this time I intended to search the Internet, online, watch the Law on RTV, and the Law on Political Parties and of course the Statute. And somehow I decided to support it, so I'll vote in favour. In fact, this opinion, which we have now received on the table, also speaks of the authorities laying down the law on political parties and the statutes. And indeed, in the Statute, the authorities of the SDS are at state level, the real decision-makers are listed, and among them there is no body that would, say, be disputed for you or mentioned. That's why I don't think my "yes" vote is going to be against the law, but it's going to be for the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u84	Thank you. If there is no more desire to explain the voice of Mr. Jakič, you have already explained your voice [[...]] [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] It was both. Well, not both at the same time, but you explained your voice. Anybody else want to explain their voice? We then move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Vinko Levstek as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act for the period until the expiry of the 2010 RTV Slovenia Programme Council. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 30. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 30.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing eight members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act. The draft decision was tabled by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. In order to present the position of the Group of Social Democrats, I give the floor to the Magi. Majdi Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! In January, he announced a public call for eight members and members of the Programme Council, in point 2, that persons who, with their knowledge, reputation or achievements in cultural, educational or any other area of social life, can be appointed to the Programme Council to help to function well and enhance the reputation of public television in Slovenia and around the world. I would also like to point out the final provision, which states, "as one of the criteria, the Mandate-Election Commission will also take into account the regional representation of candidates from various parts of Slovenia". It is likely that there is still considerable debate and developments in the adoption of the Grims Act on RTV and the recommendations of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on the provision of independent public service broadcasting. Among other things, they explicitly stipulate that the rules of management, and in particular their membership, must be defined in a way that prevents the impact of political or other influences on authorities and that the supervisory authorities should be appointed in an open and pluralistic manner and represent the collective interests of society in general. Minister Simonita, the current minister, also had a lot to say at his public hearing in 2005 about how civil society, not the one through which political positions were expressed, would have a new decision on programme issues. And on 17 December 2007, when there was a speech on the appointment of members of the Programme Council, Mr Jože Tanko, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, said that the proposal put forward by a group of listeners and viewers, or by an interested public, was not a political public. This should be a very good proposal, in short, they will support it because they are behind it because the selection of candidates, who are also regionally dispersed, is good. That is why they will support him, even because of the human resources structure, because they are educated. Well, in 2009, the thing was a little different. At that time, the same person said on behalf of the same parliamentary group, which was 17 December 2009: "I must frankly say that in the parliamentary group we are opposed to the majority of the candidates selected by the mandate committee from this quota, because when we read these names we do not detect civilians, but it is a politically highly targeted, sophisticated and carefully chosen selection, and it is red-coloured." Well, and if we now look at the list of proposed candidates, there are 49 proposals in force, 37, more than half of them proposed by individuals. The statistical regions are so dispersed that only two statistical regions are not represented, five and six, so the proposal could be regionally balanced. However, if you look at these 8 proposed names, 5 are from Central Slovenia and then another from Pomurska, Gorenjska and Coastal Kraška. And now there's something else that needs to be pointed out. It cannot be said that there were not enough good candidates among the proposed candidates. It is true that only 5 of them, but 4 of them are doctors of science or master's degree, also regionally dispersed, but none of them were good enough to become candidates for the programme world, even though Brankica Petkovic, a magistrate who received the support of the Union of Cultural Associations of Constitutional Nations and Nationality, is the breakup of the SFRJ in Slovenia, the Union of Roma Slovenia, the Peace Institute, the Institute of Information, Cooperation and Development of NGOs in Ljubljana, could still be listed. But there were many words about how multiculturalism in RTV programmes should also be represented, but the candidate did not receive support. However, they received support from those who had been candidates for the recent national elections, who, on behalf of the Institute for the Revitalization of Civil Society, had repeatedly intervened in political space, or were members of the National Assembly of Values, and so on and so on. Therefore, a proposal that cannot be supported by the Social Democrats in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u86	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u87	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. A respected choir! In the previous agenda item, a new member of the Programme Council was contested, which is named under the RTV Slovenia Act by the key to the number representation of parties in the National Assembly. Now we have before us a list of eight names that we can say will be named by the key to the number representation of parties in the coalition. It shouldn't be like that. There should be no vote with the help of snotty leafs. Members are supposed to be invited by viewers and audiences or interested audiences, but unfortunately they are just a facade for which the interests of the rulers stand. This was demonstrated in 2006, when members proposed associations unusual to the media space, and this is also being demonstrated today. Thus, among the eight proposed are six such candidates, the initiator of the establishment of a local committee of a party, or proposed by various assemblies or civil associations, which, on their websites, consistently advocate the position of the so-called right-wing environment. The coalition has committed itself to protecting media freedom and independence. At the same time, she promised not to interfere with the work of the media. The coalition agreement is one thing, and there is something completely different about ministering. Apparently, it's no longer the time when SDS's electricity customers, if you remember this tweet, will no longer be paying for "quick-leaving blasphemies in Studio City". However, if the project of political subordination of public broadcasting fails, public service can also be brought to its knees by financial impoverishment. Some of the bills are already visible and ready for this. So the press reset can begin. Finally, let me express the hope that the government's cultural policy, which has remained after the abolition of the cultural ministry in general, will not only be reduced to creating a government-friendly media landscape. I keep my hope despite the actions of the ministry responsible for culture, which has not shown due respect to other areas of culture so far. Thus, it did not respond to the invitation to a meeting of the National Council for Culture, which by law is the central institution for guiding the Slovenian cultural strategy. As it is said, not only the Group of Members, I will not support this proposal myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u88	Thank you. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u89	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. President, once again. It is known that only the 17-member programming world was envisaged in the referendum on the rejected law. Because this would make him more operational and decision-making more individual-oriented and more accountable to an individual in the smaller Programme Council. Now we have a 29-member programming board with only two women. And we will confirm it in the National Assembly, which, after years of effort, has for the first time more than a third of its Members. If I refer to yesterday's debate on the Commission for Petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities where the Minister of Mag is. Visjak said that he himself advocated greater participation of women in the management of economic operators, and then he would expect those who had the opportunity to form a proposal by the majority of eight members to find a member. Otherwise, it seems silly to me that we have a public invitation to use women and men in sexual forms, and in the end it would be quite enough to say everything only in men's sex because we have only eight men. I do not contest the quality and argument of any of these candidates. I'm not raised enough to just ignore someone else's skills. I wonder why, among these 37, she was not recognized as suitable for the programming world, and what kind of woman, given that we also know the structure of the viewers and viewers and listeners and who is the most faithful part of this audience. When we speak of civil society being seen as represented in decision-making bodies, we would expect the composition to follow. Otherwise, Mr Grims, you can smile cheerfully, because you will, you will also do everything you want, you can talk about freedom of the Internet and I don't know what else is going on as long as such conductive things do not have a little ability to think and it goes on as a roller over things, you can laugh, but laughter will also end. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u90	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We move to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing eight [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural, Mr. Bevk? Voice explanation, Mr. Bevk. Who wants to explain their vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament other than Mr Bevik? Good. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u91	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Already in the presentation of the Group of the Social Democrats of Magi. Majde Potrat, and in my performance, I made it clear that the Group of Social Democrats will not support such a proposal. The programming orientation of RTV Slovenia is also indicated in light of the decision taken at today's meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. According to the new RTV Slovenia will be able to host only two national celebrations this year, a celebration for the Statehood Day in June and a celebration for the Independence and Unity Day in December. In fact, for the sake of saving money, the government today decided not to organise a celebration for the day of rebellion against the occupying party and for the day of reformation. This fact, however, can be explained in various ways, even very ideologically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-22-SDZ6-Izredna-09.ana.u92	Thank you. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Does anyone want to explain their voice individually? If not, we move to a vote on the proposal for a decision to appoint eight members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of Article 17, paragraph 6, 7th indent of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. In doing so, I inform you that, pursuant to Article 9, paragraph 17, of the Radio Television Act, Slovenia will adopt a decision if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 32. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 9th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you, everyone, and thank you very much.
