ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue the sixth session of the National Assembly. They apologized for today: Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič, Roberto Battelli and Janez Vasle. We continue to end item 3a of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks under the urgent procedure. I suspended this meeting yesterday because last Friday, at the meeting of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, a gentleman's agreement was reached that the amendments of the coalition would be tabled one day before the consideration of this law. Unfortunately, that didn't happen Monday. The amendments only came to the table yesterday, so I think it was now enough time for us all to examine them, including Members and Members of the opposition. Positive Slovenia announces obstruction for this point. I'm so sorry. I have done everything in my power to meet all procedural conditions so that we can work normally, but they have decided to do so, so today we will do this point without them. We are moving on to a debate on individual articles and amendments. First, I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the two amendments to Article 2. This is the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. I'm opening an application for discussion. Please sign up. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. In Article 2, we are proposing an amendment whereby we want to define which companies are to be envisaged for the purchase of bank claims due to poor investment. We believe that this could be the companies that are included in the class D and E credit rating according to the decision of the Bank of Slovenia regulating the assessment of credit risk losses. In fact, the law itself does not define what a bad claim is. This is at the very beginning a key flaw in this law; we do not know what we are talking about, we do not know what a bad claim is. I am surprised that today, on this subject, there is no Prime Minister of the Government who has come to Slovenia, there is no Minister of Finance, here we have the Secretary of State, Mr Krusac, with all due respect, but given the importance of the decision on the bad bank, I would expect a substantial heavy occupation, if I may say so, by the Government to be included in this debate. So one key question is right at the beginning: What is a bad claim? Who can answer me – or the President of the Government, or the Minister of Finance, or Mr Krušec, or anyone – what is a bad claim? It's not defined anywhere in the law. However, we are talking about 4 billion to which we are supposed to make a guarantee because they will be redeemed from banks and transferred to a company to manage these claims. Today we have heard over the radio that the Minister of Finance is talking about 6 billion bad investments. What are we talking about in this marriage?Oh, my God! What will the National Assembly decide today? We'd like to get those answers. We are solving this with our amendment when we define that those companies that have a D and E rating are subject to the redemption of claims from banks and the transfer to the company to manage these claims. Everything else is not specified, it is not defined, we have no explanation in the law, what we want to achieve by this law, what the consequences of such a law will be. And this law also allows for the transfer of good companies to a society for the management of bad claims. Why the good ones?Oh, my God! That's not the answer either. I really want to remind you that more than €20 billion has already been transferred from Slovenia to tax havens. Do we not make this law a possibility that this money, which is in tax havens, at the lowest possible price, will buy back our companies managed by the company for the management of these bad claims, and is it not possible that this 20 billion is actually, according to the domestic word, money laundering and the legalisation of transactions that took place in these years of the transition of Slovenia? For 20 years, Slovenia has exhausted, over 20 billion assets, we find it in these tax havens, and now it is obvious that we are opening the way for those who have channeled this money out to have cheap assets in our businesses and in our banks. Therefore, it is very important that we define what a bad claim is. Once again, I would like to ask for the first answer that we can then discuss this law. This law does not define a bad claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u3	Mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u4	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! Now I'm asking you, Mr. Weber, if the law is limited to class D and class E, where is the guarantee to cover all the bad claims?Oh, my God! In our view, such a definition in the law after a certain assessment would cover only half of these claims, and thus banks would only partially recover, but would buy them some time, but in a few years they should repeat this procedure. Poor claims can arise either because of rigorous legislation, because of poor both internal and external control and therefore can also be classified in Class B. It is therefore reasonable for me to define this area in a sub-legislative act. That is why I will not support the amendment of the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u5	Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Your Honor! With regard to Article 2, the Coalition also proposes to delete point 4 of Article 2, second paragraph, because we consider that point 4 relates to the responsibility to be used in other articles, in particular in Article 10. In view of the fact that the Social Democrats have also proposed an amendment to this Article 2 where they should be defined as the bad claims of that claim that Banka Slovenije will define by credit rating D and E, I would say the following in this regard. First time. Such an amendment cannot be supported for various reasons, solely for professional reasons. First of all, because different claims have different ratings in different banks. Another time. The same claims or the same borrowers have different ratings in different banks. Third time. Banka Slovenije is not the one who would actually assess in which bank the same borrower has the same credit rating D, E, C, B or A. Why do the same claims have different ratings? This is because, for the first time, the criteria in banks are different and, secondly, because in one bank the same claim can be very well secured and can have a rating A, in the other bank that creditor has a poorly secured claim and can therefore be in the credit rating D or E. In short, if we took such a solution, we would actually have to make a very big mistake in the banking system, because business banks have always assessed individual loans or borrowers with certain credit ratings. Such a system would only contribute to confusion and would not know what is actually being done in this new society. On the other hand, it would contribute to the fact that this would not be operational at all. It would also not be operational because, last of all, Banka Slovenije provided information on the number of negative claims under one variant, in the second variant, after the third and fourth variants, on the basis of the questionnaires and on the basis of other assessments in the National Assembly. After all, the Bank of Slovenia could have done all this. The Bank of Slovenia could already encourage these banks to set up, if you want, some legal persons who manage these claims to manage these claims, but it has not actually done so, which means that each bank has assessed for itself what credit rating the individual lender has. On the basis of the survey, the Bank obtained this information and also presented it to the National Assembly. This was one of those assessments of how many bad claims there are, but it is not complete, because these are still survey data and it would not in fact have been effective and could have been done in an effective way. All Members here — those who were present — have received information on how many bad claims there are under different methodologies. That's why the number you mentioned is one of the numbers. For this reason, the number mentioned by the State is also one of the numbers for which the guarantee in this law will be given by the State. Otherwise, it is necessary to review and assess what is actually a bad claim and, of course, what to do with it — not only sell it or sell it, but or make a better claim out of this bad claim, for example, that an uncultivated property is built up and then acquired greater value. Thus, from the purely professional point of view of this amendment, we will not support the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u7	Mr. Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u8	First, there's something about the general. As far as I am concerned, in Article 2, in the second paragraph, the first, second and fourth points of the text could be deleted without a bad conscience. As the only measure to strengthen the stability of the banking system in the country would remain what is clearly the cheapest and most effective way to achieve the desired goal; and this is an increase in the capital of banks. The capital adequacy of the banks is a key resource for our banks being disadvantaged in obtaining funds on the interbank market and, on the other hand, because of their existing obligations to the same interbank market, they are forced to squeeze many of their bank investments. We have tried many times to tell this ruling coalition that the main problem facing Slovenia is the high indebtedness of the economy. Our task is to provide a system framework within which it can be effectively distributed in the economy. So that it will have a defined path to repay its obligation in due course. I do not want to go back to the past, to talk about the gross external debt which today shows the high level of indebtedness of the economy created during a specific period; I do not want to say that since then the supervisory mechanisms have been cancelled both within the banks – the role of the supervisory councils – as well as the regulator of the Bank of Slovenia, is said. I think we need to focus on the problem and on a sober and rational debate on where the solutions to this problem are. Now: The government is therefore proposing to issue a 4 billion-dollar guarantee to refinance the purchase of bad claims from bank balances to the Company for Bank Claims Management. The purpose of our amendment is to draw attention to the fundamental inconsistencies of the whole concept. In the basic legal framework defining bank rehabilitation, we do not determine what needs to be remedied in these banks. Authors, for example, Jože Mencinger – I believe you don't like him most – warns that the bad investment that the bank has today can be a good investment tomorrow; only the bank must do what needs to be done. We're all finding out that the banks were mismanaged. The story around, say, the great Slovenian construction people, where, say, the SCT and Primorje needed some ten million euros to finance the operating assets, the decision of banks not to extend the manual to not provide the operating resources, caused immediate insolvency and the collapse of these companies. This is where the chain effect began. Because the banks were not willing to face the needs of the economy, no matter who the owners of these companies were, because the detacunization could have been done differently, we have created a space-million-dollar hole in the banking system that will be the subject of resolution by the Bad Claims Management Company tomorrow. Your Honor! In marriage, we need a fundamental definition of what a bad investment is. I don't know if we even know. What is a bad claim today is subject only to the decision of the Bank of Slovenia, which says, "weak claim is the extent of the entire debt, whose part of repayment is 90 days late". This is not the regulation of the European Banking Authority! We do not have this issue in Europe at all. I think we agreed that we radicalised the problem of agreeing with a particular political agenda that the situation in the country is worse than it is. We have a clear task, this is the rehabilitation of banks, we have two different concepts, and within this kind of detail that needs to be well foreseen by law. We must find that solutions, as proposed by the coalition, are not a safe path. There's no safe way. I'm afraid we're going to have a headache very quickly, because we're going to figure out what we've gotten ourselves into with the concept of bank recovery. This will ultimately be a significantly bigger problem than today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u9	I've seen a few more hands raised, so I'll open another circle. You can just sign up. Mr. Boyan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! I'm a little angry, I'm listening to this stuff, and I'm telling you right now that I can't support this second article. It is sad that none of our experts, including Banka Slovenije, knows what a bad claim is and when a bad claim arises. A poor claim is one that has no chance of actually returning to the banking system. That's a bad claim. Poor claims were and Banka Slovenije should have prevented bad credits from being made with precise rules when they were given. We know that every citizen, if he wants to get 5,000 euros: creditworthiness, whether for a certain time or an indefinite time – a thousand checks is all about getting 5,000 Euros of credit! And he's got little chance of getting it! Now he even has to have one third of the free So, everything has to be guaranteed, everything has to be signed, mortgages to get 1 euro credit. [[...]] For the company, usually, and it's always been that it made an elaborate: the first time you're going to spend your credit. Usually, he used himself to start an investment, if you had new programs, for the assets, for that and what resulted in some production, some added value and some gain to get you back. Yes, who imagined that a company such as our financial holding companies — those who leased loans for the purchase of businesses — could not at that time know that these companies would not be able to repay interest or credit?Oh, my God! We find bad claims, we consider what my colleague Frangež said – these are now found: we have four variants of different things found; if interest is not paid, if annuity is not paid so much time, this is taken for bad claims. In our banks there must be a whole range of large claims that will be bad claims tomorrow, because we now know that they have been given so large credits that they can't repay them: say SCT, say Mercator. Why did they give credit to these companies without need if they could not calculate how much they could repay? For managers' buyouts, they even gave out loans for two, three years. And it's impossible for someone to pay back $100 million, plus interest on that kind of thing! And the problem was here, and that's why we're sitting here, and that's why we're arguing here about how we're gonna solve things. Never have we – and no supervisory authority, no one knows that the basis is to give credit and that this is the only option. No foreign bank paid for redemption, for financial holding companies that have no production, or for redemptions that serve only speculation – everyone speculated on how they would resell this property and so on. I think it's sad that we've been fighting here for six months, but we've been looking at this thing for five years, where every year we've thrown 1 billion euros out of the window every year just through the banking system. No wonder there's enough money out there. I say that whatever the alternative is, there is a solution here that I'm not sure is good; but, I don't know why we have the Bank of Slovenia, why we have all the institutions – will we be able to look at and find basic logic? Every shepherd, every farmer, every individual can calculate whether he is able to repay a loan; if the bank can't calculate it, the leadership can't figure out, I'm a disgrace to all of us, and for all of us who listen to it, we save forever, and we never solve anything! I tell you all these findings about bad loans – the next 3, 4, 5 billion will be back tomorrow. That is why I cannot agree with the amendment to just define what they are, because I know they are huge, too, and only in our state banks, where we allow such a system. The whole system, all the politics, all the knowledge. How can Banka Slovenije license our bankers if they cannot determine how credit is given and how? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u11	Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! In a conversation with journalists, former Prime Minister Borut Pahor said that his government did not have proper information on unsecured bank loans. He said: "We have absolutely underestimated the problems in the Slovenian banking system, which began to accumulate between 2006 and 2007, as well as in 2008, when the banks are banks, I will say, with a small, under-discipline, large loans without adequate insurance. Are you asking me if I knew everything I know today, back then? I didn't know, but it's my responsibility. Perhaps if we had properly diagnosed the problem, we would have been able to find out." End of quote. Such honesty would also be expected from the current Prime Minister, Janez Jansho. If we asked the then opposition leader Janez Janša and the president of the biggest opposition parliamentary party at the time today, whether he was aware that today the problems of resolving the financial, economic and social crisis will be significantly more difficult than ever because of the collapse of all Pahor's reform projects. I don't know what today's president's answer would be. I'm just speculating. He probably didn't realize the problem at the time. That is why today it would be for the Slovenian country, in fact for all of us, both for the government and the opposition party, so that the former opposition leader would recognise this and also make it clear to the Slovenian public. And to do that, it takes some state courage. It would be much easier for all of us. This could lead us into national unity for a way out of the crisis, because I am personally convinced, as Presidential candidate Borut Pahor said in his programme statement, that an agreement on a joint effort to get out of the crisis does not suspend democracy, but protects it from the danger of the domination of demagogy, which may threaten it. A few days ago, we were visiting the Czech Republic, Prague, with the President of the National Assembly, and we talked to their statesmen. They don't have any problems in the banking system. But it is a race to own all their banks as multinationals. Because they saved their banking system in the '90s by selling out all their banks. However, there are also different opinions on this move, and they are not uniform there, because it has both its positive and its negative benefits. Therefore, I would like to appeal to you to consider whether this is the right way out of this banking problem, which is now in Slovenia, or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u13	Mr. Matjaz Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u14	Thank you very much. First, let me say that I am disappointed, sad, but if I am very grave, I protest that there is no Minister of Finance with us today, Mr Šuštersič, at the most important point, on the most important issue of the recovery of the Slovenian economy. Why am I disappointed? Because I want to ask him a few questions, and I probably won't get an answer, and I'm going to have to make up my mind about this bad marriage, which is not going to be hard for me, because of course I'm going to vote against it. I'm not one to say something has to be done, even if it costs as much as it costs. This case is going to cost taxpayers too much. First, I would like to ask Mr Šuštersič one question. Where is the reason that in six months he changed his mind that a bad bank is a really bad solution, as he spoke six months ago, and today he's defending it, I'm going to say, with all four. I'll quote him. Mr Šušteršič said six months ago: "Bad bank is a bad time. A key problem that needs to be solved is how the banks would get fresh money into the economy. If you just take the claim to a bad bank, you can't save anything. There will be no new money in the economy. Since these poor claims are mainly owned by companies, the state would again be the owner of the companies, which is not meaningful." That's what Mr. Sušteršič said six months ago. It is interesting, however, that he said another sentence at the end; and here it is now crucial and here it is, I will say, the core of this problem because, ladies and gentlemen, you have agreed and decided to sell out the Slovenian assets that we still have. If you can't sell it all through Slovenian holding company, you'll sell it through a bad bank. Why do I say that? Since this same Mr. Sušteršič said, I quote, "It would be really good if..." – just a little – "A much more efficient solution would be for banks to sell their own claims with a discount or to cash them if it were shares. This would generate liquidity. Then we wouldn't be thinking about a bad bank. Of course, the only way to make this bad claim is if we already had an agreement on the sale of the bank." So, today, with the taxpayer's money, 4 billion, you will resolve the bad claims and because you have already agreed in advance – this is what Mr Šušteršič says that you will sell the bank for, I will say, a small amount of money – you went into this bad claim because otherwise I can't explain it to myself. Since I will have more time then, I will quote Mr Sušteršič, who wrote many things in his columns. I believe the column can be written, but it's hard to run the Ministry of Finance. He has a diametrically different attitude in his columns, in his statements as today's is what he does. Now I'm going to ask Mr Krusac, because I can't ask this second moment one thing; please answer me, Mr Krusec. Then I'll ask, believe me. You said you're going to need 4 billion to do that, I'll say, a guarantee that we're going to put 4 billion into this bad bank: how are you going to do that? And if you did the analysis – I believe you did the analysis – if you recapitalized the bank: how much would that cost taxpayers? As far as I'm concerned, you don't have money for a guarantee, for a bad bank, for that 4 billion, either, you don't have a billion to recapitalize. But you have decided that you would rather make 4 billion debt to our taxpayers, as Mr Šušteršič has made clear that this goes into public debt. But you're not thinking about recapitalizing a bank that would probably cost 1 billion, 1.5 billion. But as I can count, 4 billion is essentially over a billion and a half billion, so that if we recapitalised the bank, even if we were to have the NCBs out of ownership, Slovenia would somehow own almost 100% of the bank. More importantly: the bank would be recapitalised and could get more resources abroad and cheaper for recapitalisation. But you prefer to do so, because you have decided to sell the bank that will be cleaned to some institutions and for what Mr Weber has been telling you all along, you will get a commission for this. Certain people. So I ask you, where are you going to get the $4 billion money, and why isn't a billion enough to recapitalize?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u15	The Secretary of State made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u16	Thank you very much. On this issue, I would like to clarify the situation once again. Thus, the guarantee will be lodged for the bond issued by this company, and this bond will redeem the claim. So it's not about the money, but this bond will be traded for the claim. So, a good claim, which will be this bond, will be traded into a bank for a bad claim that will go to society. This transaction is without money, [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Money, we don't need that. [[...]] It will go into public debt, but what is essential is that the increase in this public debt will be temporary because society will have something to raise. So these bad claims will eventually be redeemed, and it is crucial how much will be the final increase in this public debt. As the valuation of these claims will be made at some real economic value, it is expected that this public debt will be paid in full or about all at the time of the existence of this company. Thus, in five years this temporary increase will go back to the level it was before these claims were transferred. I think this is an essential element of the entire transaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u17	Replica, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u18	Mr. Krušec, I'm going to ask you one more question. You didn't answer me how you could recapitalize. Probably the same way, just to have a billion and a half, not four billion. That's one thing. But your master, Chief, Mr Šušteršič, says that what you now say will be a condition if they actually evaluate these bad claims. But you have not yet decided how you will evaluate these bad claims: whether the country will value them or evaluate them, in a way, a bank. If you value either one side or the other, things will not be covered. This is how we today accept a matter that will cost taxpayers four billion, but we do not know how we will evaluate these bad claims. You might also say that if you already have some mathematical calculation, a scheming, or whatever you say, how you're going to value these bad claims. You don't have any! And you go into the story of four billion euros to pay taxpayers without any analysis. That's extreme, extremely irresponsible. It's extremely irresponsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u19	Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. I am pleased to have encouraged debate on the subject of poor claims, and I am very grateful to Mr Shirtzl and especially to my colleague Starman, who has made it very clear when a bad claim arises and what we must come from. But this law doesn't define it at all, I have to stress it again. I also thank Mr Shirtz for describing that some companies may have a rating in one bank A, in another D, E, for a claim. But all these situations need to be foreseen, and we cannot leave this to the government in any way, in order to identify what is a bad claim in the law and how it will solve these things. The National Assembly decides on 4 billion guarantees. Let me remind you that the highway program cost, say, 7 billion. At one point today, we are deciding on 7 billion, and we leave this to the government, how it will determine what is a bad claim, which company is included in it and which one is not. But I would refer to Mr. Starman's warning. Many claims were made because they leased loans knowingly that they would not repay those loans because they were pouring money abroad. And 20 billion of that money is in tax havens. All I want to point out is that a bad claim can also arise when an undertaking pays off normally due to its production process and the market it manages these claims. However, it may happen that the Bank Claims Management Company, because it can also buy out good companies and have them in its own management, wishes that these loans are returned sooner than they are capable of according to its production process. At that time, the Bank's Claims Management Company knowingly causes a bad claim and knowingly enables this good company to fail and make it available to those in the 20 billion oasis. It's almost as simple as that, I don't know if there can be any explanation as to what kind of time it could be, because the law doesn't determine what a bad claim is. It may also knowingly result in a poor claim if it imposes on an undertaking that the credit must be repaid earlier than originally envisaged. Or, for example, if, due to the changed economic situation, the bank does not extend the period of repayment of the loan. At a time when it does not extend it, this remains a poor claim due to the deterioration of the economic situation. And we're not preventing this machination by this law, we're legislating. We legalize what – in my opinion – and I also hope that, according to all yours, it was illegal when some people received credits on beautiful eyes and knew that they would not return them. This law makes it legal. So we don't solve the problem, but we only legally allow it by adopting this law. When you say that Banka Slovenije is not competent to assess what rating the company has or whether the claim is poor or not. You said before that she did a complete survey, she has this information – Banka Slovenije can do this and we propose this in our amendment! But your proposal in this law is that the only policy, and this ruling policy, can decide when a bad claim will arise in an enterprise if it does not extend the repayment of the loan, or whether to decide which business was good, which was bad in the past. Politics will now decide that. In fact, we are law-abiding corruption, which will certainly be legally enforceable because we have adopted such a law in the National Assembly. Policy cannot decide what is a bad claim, what is not a bad claim. This is not a policy task, and it also points out the profession. It is therefore very important that we define this concept precisely in this law in order to avoid the many manipulations that will follow when this law is passed.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u21	Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I fully agree with Mr Webro that politics cannot decide what is a bad claim – and it will not! Under this law, politics will not, nor can it, decide what is a bad claim, and that is the problem. This law lays down the basis at which the poor claim will be tolerated, the long-term market value is mentioned, etc. In that chapter all of this is specified and it is known that the profession determines what valuation methods are for each bad claim if you want. That's what I was talking about at one of the previous meetings and the committee, etc. We know when different valuation methods, liquidation values, future returns methods, etc. are used. This is the basis in this law that these methods are actually written and will be written professionally and professionally. Second. You have said, Mr Weber, that the company orders the company to repay the loan first and that creates a bad claim. The company will not charge anything, the company has no jurisdiction to impose – of course, you thought of a company for the management of claims – on another company to repay the loan earlier. Why would you charge? That's what the bank does! Again, it is not true that if the bank does not extend credit, it makes a bad claim. It's not about extending the loan, it's about a new loan deal. There's a new credit business in banks. It's not just about the extension. We're talking about the extension in slang that someone didn't extend something. But there has to be a new credit agreement, new insurance, new stuff, everything's new. If after three months you want another three-month loan, it's a new loan deal, it's not the same loan deal. But it's said, I agree that on the street there's talk about something not being extended, even in the newspapers, it's written, but it's just the content of another matter. We'll be worth it! Of course, this company will value and hire experts and will value you. That's what banks can do when we're talking about state banks, and they're not doing it today. I simply cannot agree with these views, nor can I agree with the fact that every detail in this law must be written, and that because we do not have a definition of what is a bad claim, this law is not good. A poor claim is defined in each banking rule; each one defines it differently, but may similarly, for certain collaterals similarly. That's not true. I would also say that we are hearing the fact that the banks have not given up – and the SCT has been mentioned here on several occasions – another 20 million credits and this has not led to these companies continuing to work, etc. Do you know how many loans they gave away? Even in the paper, I read how much credit they gave up, and these companies can't pay it back. But we never ask ourselves where these owners are. By saying that the economy is most indebted, very indebted – Mr Frangež, these owners have committed themselves and these owners must be invited to do something! But it's always about some duality; let's give some more credit, and the owners don't, and we know exactly who owns it. I agree that the owner has the essential role to play. If I still answer Mr Bevk about how much the current government is willing to cooperate with the opposition. I think the current government has put forward a proposal and the idea of a joint exit from the crisis has been offered. However, as I know, there is no answer or no answer. Thus I cannot agree with Mr Sam Bevk, who says that the previous government has done so and so, but the current government does not want to do so. No, the government of Janez Janša also formed the Partnership for Development in 2004-2008, where the Social Democrats were present and the creators of those policies. I am not exaggerating, but I can describe the meetings, such as the adoption of taxes and tax reforms, where you were present and agreed with them. I can also tell you the names of who was there – Mr Pahor. So we reject the fact that this government doesn't want [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u23	Will you remember? Here you go, Mr. Han. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u24	Mr Shircelj, I would like to replicate to you, although I know that you are a good macroeconomicist, but it seems that you did not have much to do with the economy. You know why? When you say that a good claim will not turn into bad claims. They will. Because banks — what do they do? An economic operator who took 100 units of credit six months ago and wants to extend this loan for another six months changes his insurance. If he does not have insurance, he has to repay the loan, become insolvent, or his interest goes up. Then it becomes a bad claim all of a sudden. But it's the same amount. And with this, our economists have a problem right now, and that's why they're going to turn such claims into bad claims. That's what I think Mr. Andrej might know.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u25	Let's make a deal like that, Comrade Franz. The replica is when someone misunderstood you, your debate. In this case, I don't think it was. I'll open another round of discussions, and let's go in order, please. Mr. Braniselle will go first. You weren't mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u26	Mr President, allow me to speak procedurally first. I know what a replica is, and I know it's not just that Mr Shircelj mentioned me, but that he misinterpreted my debate. That's exactly what I'm trying to stress here. Mr Šircelj, I absolutely agree: the owner's responsibility is first, but be careful that this conviction does not come to you from the back of the unwanted scenario of the interpretation of the problem. The owner of the banks, but of the problematic ones, is a state and therefore the state has the first responsibility. Nowhere has such a concept of bank rehabilitation been chosen in situations where the state owned, and nowhere has such a concept of bank rehabilitation been chosen in situations where banks were solvable; and our banks are solvable! But basically, we got the wrong idea about the second question. The role of the owner and the question of detikunisation caused during the specific period of the Slovenian transition. Nobody likes them. I certainly don't! The rude ownership of the Slovenian economy has greatly contributed to the deterioration of our banking system to this level. Moreover, because the accumulation did not invest in development, the conquest of new markets, the increase in the competitiveness of companies, the development of new products, the development of the accumulation that went into the question of whose company this company is now, and not what company this will be tomorrow, it basically brought us great problems. However, I argue that, for example, that Lahovnik's law, Lahovnik's commitment to prevent proper restructuring of Taiwan's loans has not caused us to detacunify these companies, but in many of these situations we have destroyed businesses. I'm telling you, the tycoons need to go on trial and prove fraud. In other ways, it is necessary to achieve that this property is "res-furt". It's really a Latin furtive subject of criminal origin. And what's gained by a crime can't be yours. My dears, the problem, and all the time you're getting involved in the technical details of the story. I know how to solve this problem: without questioning what ratings are, what is not. It is very clear that cheaper and more efficient methods must be chosen. It should be in this debate, respectable Mr. Shircelj!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr Richard Braniselj, who has waited patiently, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u28	Thank you, President. I cannot support the amendment of the Social Democrats to Article 2. My colleague Weber mentioned the 20 billion that have emerged into the tax havens recently from this country. At the same time, he fears that this 20 billion will come back. The 20 billion must come back to the Republic of Slovenia in the way this law foresees. Let us process those things that have signs of crime; and this law provides for a threefold extension of all marriages so that we can do so. So far, no government has been able to do this, and I'm counting on this to happen. However, if it comes to the fact that we will not be able to return to the country on this route, then of course I say that these funds must be obtained in a different way to invest in the Republic of Slovenia. There were a lot of words about bad claims. You know, bad claims turn out to be bad when they need to be erased. A claim that is now bad can be good tomorrow, and vice versa. Therefore, we will talk about bad claims when it is definitively clear how much we can get for these claims, whether we can recover them or not. Poor claims or claims are living materials that change over time. My colleague, Frangež, has been vehemently asserting that it is clearly the cheapest way to rescue banks in difficulty of recapitalisation. Did I get you guys right? Clearly, you are one of the few in this country that you hope to claim this to be evident. Indeed, the Governor of Banka Slovenije said in yesterday's newspaper, we read, about this matter in a way or so: "The direct recapitalisation of banks would probably be cheaper." The emphasis is on "probably." That's what he says. He doesn't dare defend himself. What is the degree of certainty between "probably" and "surely" we probably know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u29	There is still an interest in the debate on Article 2. I'm opening up again. Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! Today I see in the positions of some laughs, some anger, probably expectations – we go to the vote, vote and go home. This is taxpayers' money, and the responsibility of all of us is extremely great. Let's say that everyone has something right, but as has been said now, what the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia said, but our Minister of Finance is also not credible. Look, there are some estimates, there are not twice the same statements in the public about what these banks want, what the funds we're talking about, once 4 billion, once 6 billion. Just like that, over the thumb. The danger is that we will clean up the banks and then sell them and then we will be like the Czechs without their own bank, but also without the profits that these banks can make. I would point out that what has been said many times is true; there is no analysis and no data on what the real situation is, what is the country's long-term goal of owning state banks, what we want with it. The decision to make the wrong model will cost taxpayers enormously. This is strange: Look, I have here a whole series of articles of experts who are against such weaknesses. We have not evaluated the maximum negative financial effects of this poor bank. We should know what the negative effect is. I believe that not everything can be just gold, as someone represents it to us here today, but also a negative effect, and we know that taxpayers will cost something. Now, will it cost us 4 billion, as has already been explained today, how we would cover this — in the final phase of our pockets — whether a billion, billion and a half to recapitalize a better and different solution. It is free, the profession says – the profession says not me, the layman – that the law should provide for the exact evaluation of bad banks. That we now have this on the table, that we know how we're going to get these results, and then we can only talk about how much it's going to cost us. Now we are all talking about – here, politics – and the profession has one's own, completely divided opinion from the government's proposal. A number of questions are emerging: that the evaluation will be very expensive financial supplies, that it will be necessary to engage external colleagues, that we do not know how many employees will be involved – at least on the Committee something could be said – but at the same time, we are squeezing the public sector, lowering wages, predicting cancellations and so on. That's how we don't know what we're dealing with in this country. That's bad, so I'm gonna have a hard time voting for this law. However, I think that this Article 2 merely sets out what can be in which grade, and this Article 2 - I will support the amendment proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u31	Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u32	Dear Mr President, honourable Members and Members, a nice greeting! We are talking here today about probably the most important law of this House, probably even the most important one in recent years, because we are talking about the burden of a country that will reach up to €4 billion. That's a hell of a lot. We're probably all aware of that. Since the number is so large, many are hard to imagine, so perhaps some of the discussions are such that ridicule is more present than the serious faces that should be. What I would like to stress is that I think that everyone in this Chamber knows that in Slovenia at this time is the biggest problem, even for the development of Slovenia and the economy, the bank. This liquid spasm when banks do not lend money, when they primarily claim money, also from good companies and from good companies make bad companies and from normal claims of bad claims. This is the biggest threat to development and even to the existence of Slovenia. The fact is that we have two scenarios at our disposal; these are what we are discussing today. One of the scenarios is essentially investment, which is a recapitalisation scenario whereby the state becomes, clearly, also the owner of banks that help them to make liquidity available to them so that the banks operate, but in a way that changes the ownership structure. Poor owners are expelled and then left to own the country and then the country can sell this property if it wants to. And we're talking about another scenario. Some talk about a gift scenario through which the ownership structure of current owners does not change, only the burdens of poor claims are relieved. The problem of both scenarios is the following. You know, because Slovenian and foreign experts say a lot about this that the amount of money involved on the one hand and on the other hand is incomparable. On the one hand, if we're talking about probably a billion and a half billion, on the other hand, in a country with a lack of money, we're talking about four billion. That's the first problem. Another problem that experts also singlely say is that in case of resolution with the help of a bad bank, the effect is not immediate. It takes a very long time for what we are looking for to happen is that banks will lend money to farmers, craftsmen, businesses and individuals. The third thing that is generally questionable about a bad bank is that it is essentially a stranger to the transfer of bad claims. Firstly, the definition of what is a bad claim is even more important, how to assess the value of the transfer, i.e. the value of the bad claim, at the time it is transferred. Here the educated economic heads do not give the right answer nor at the moment. After we have two scenarios on the table, the first scenario you don't want to hear about, which requires significantly less money, and the second scenario where we have guarantees for four billion euros, is what can run us as citizens and citizens, and the next. On the one hand, we have advocates, these are eminent Slovenian economists, foreign economists, bankers, and on the other hand we have a financial minister who does not take the time to send the Secretary of State on the most important day of this year and also more widely to attend the meeting. Everyone would probably even expect a government president to be present in such an important decision — he is not. It is true that I am a bit ill-sighted, but I do not see him among us, and these important people are not here today. We are talking about essentially how to burden Slovenian citizens and citizens with the potential of €4 billion. So, there's a very large unreality on the part of the government, and I have to pay particular attention to that. In my opinion, Mr President of the National Assembly, we should make sure that if we are discussing such an important topic, there are eminent people here. On the other hand, we have, on the one hand, the opinions of eminent Slovenian and foreign experts and, on the other hand, the opinions of the Minister of Finance and the Ministry, which is in chaos. We are all aware that we are reading articles that the Minister today has one opinion, three days later another, and six months ago a third opinion. So we have a minister who doesn't have an opinion, but he's obviously turning around in the wind like the wind blows -- I don't know which way it is, whether it's Germany, America or something else. Then we have state secretaries laughing at you, laughing at them. And that's what we're putting on the scale. Dear Members and Members, the ruling coalition! When weighing, let us again check whether you believe the right people or do not believe the right people, of course, with some good purpose to benefit this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u33	Mr. Boyan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I am quite sure that in no marriage we will write or prevent all possible negative scenarios, because we have already had very good laws – the Banking Act that he predicted ; we have institutions that are very good and watchful, I have seen how banks are being monitored and all: very educated, very smart, but they do not agree on anything! [[...]] They don't figure out the crap that's going on. The same is true in the Court of Auditors and everywhere, because we are too liberal, but we have too few honest people who could be very quick and very efficient and without spending a lot of money, we have found a lot. I have said this myself, and many times before eight, seven years ago, that such loans to buy-in companies such loans that are unsecured should not be granted after all, and the entire banking system did not find that out. When I hear the story about the tycoons, I've told them many times that the tycoons have a name and they know how much money they've got and where they've credited it. The tycoons did not This option stem from privatisation because we did not – and I said so then – set up when we received these coupons, a moratorium of at least 10, 15 years. [[...]] We have thrown all our assets into the market and completely devalued, which has passed from two million people to the city of 2,3 000 people who have become owners of all the assets and what else was needed – when they had all the shares in the companies they were counting on to be able to cash them – to get some more couriers, intermediaries. They got it in banks, after these various tycoons, as we call them, who just went to the bank that the banks were offering them, and transferred it to these people. It is well known who received EUR 5 million from Mercury when he sold, who is of this, of this – exactly what he knows. But I also give the tycoons other categories because this was where it went and we spent so much money – when I get back to what my colleague Weber said is 20 billion out in the oasis. Money did not come only from privatisation, money also came from pedagogical species, money came from more or less state-owned companies, which subsidized various things and participated in this place that was happening. Money also came from tax collectors from several cities, and it is not surprising, in fact, that we are in a situation that seems almost hopeless. But also the State Holding Act, including this law before us, including all who criticize the ZUJF, is overexpenditure. But we're on the right track. For example, in the second quarter, ZUJF and I almost halved the deficit that was in the previous year. Other measures are also showing up. So I think that if we do something different, we prevent it from continuing to steal and bring something more into these cash registers, then we could do it. In order to write everything down, I also forgot to mention that we overpaid 25% through public procurement; from highways, from all things – sparrows are already chirping. [[...]] We also have such a complex legislation, and everyone can look for it, and we are now facing various changes. If one could write a law on public procurement, on the one hand, say the essence, then there wouldn't be so much fraud. However, each public undertaking is obliged to obtain at least three offers and select the best and document it. We don't need 485 pages anymore, and I don't know what articles, whether it's for buying big projects or small ones – it's a simple thing. I also say that the Court of Auditors will never detect major frauds because they are unfortunately very legal and legal, and no one will be able to prove these things and get to that money. That's probably not the tycoon money either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u35	Mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Hello, President of the National Assembly, welcome, Secretary of State at the Ministry and colleague at the Ministry of Finance, Members and Members of Parliament! The fact is that the banks were poorly managed and also poorly supervised. The Bank of Slovenia has also failed to perform its supervisory and regulatory function. Poorly controlled loans, the consequences today we see, credit risks have been underestimated and today we have the situation we have. Therefore, I personally support the initiative to establish a European Banking Union that will take control of national central banks, among other things, in real terms, over 160 national central banks, including our system banks, which are directly or indirectly owned by the State. Therefore, it is also necessary to prevent the negative impact of poor claims on the capital position of banks, which we can do with the procedures proposed by this law – that is, the Government proposes concrete solutions to this law. Specific solutions, but not just populist measures, as we have seen on the Committee on the Economy, with various populist conclusions that banks should help. For example, call on banks to help with decisions on lending in the case of specific undertakings. So these are just populist measures, and now the government is proposing systemic measures that will solve the problem of lending the whole economy. Personally, it seems crucial for banks to receive in return for bad claims, so I specifically say, government bonds. We've heard, the ceiling of the state guarantee is 4 billion. This public debt will be repaid in different ways. Although there will be a temporary increase in public debt, it is envisaged that it will also be repaid within five years. As for the debt or fact that Mr Weber mentioned that more than 20 billion had gone to tax havens before, and in the end, I also see a good solution that these castings will once return to the Republic of Slovenia, and we can also return to this fund that we are establishing. It's okay. Potential smugglers and those who have laundered money in these tax havens have already dried it up fairly and it would also be fine, and I see the opportunity for the money to come back, that is to say, into this fund. However, the money is traceable and our supervisory institutions are now ready to identify the money trail and also the source of funding and will also identify the source of funding to buy back those bad claims if that happens. Well, I see a positive point in that, too. What seems crucial to me personally is that bad claims are transferred to the fund, banks clean up these bad claims and become clean. Of course, they are also recapitalised by private capital or by foreign investment. One of the objectives of this government is to remove the credit crunch and help through these systemic solutions micro, small, medium-sized enterprises and independent entrepreneurs to provide an opportunity to finance activities and thus also to relaunch the economy and for new jobs. That seems crucial to me. That is why I cannot support this amendment of yours, but I support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u37	It's a replica. Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u38	I will replicate Mrs Damjana Petavar Dobovšek because I met him because I was one of those Social Democrats who we called upon the Committee on the Economy, where we tried to do so with populist issues, to save 300 jobs in the Radeče municipality. Interestingly, a member of the congregation comes from where unemployment is now in such a situation that people find it difficult to live. And if this was a populist action by the Social Democrats and me, I also accept it. Otherwise, Mrs Damjana Petavar Dobovšek, when you're getting into this area of banking, let me teach you a little bit. The Central Bank and the System Bank are two different matters. That's one thing. And second. It's very interesting when you say we save the banks first. This confirms what I said earlier, as Mr Šuštersič says: first we save banks with 4 billion taxpayers' money and then we give them the opportunity to recapitalise, you said, private investors or foreign investors. See, that's where we're very different! To clean up the bank in order to give the possibility that foreign investors will come with small funds – for such a sale of Slovenian property, I am not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u39	Mr. Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u40	I was challenged by why I am so vehemently convinced that the government's choice is undoubtedly more expensive and less efficient. Now let's imagine the numbers. I think that, although poor investment is less than 4 billion, good, because it's easier to calculate, let's say that we're going to spend the entire amount of the allowed guarantee, 4 billion euros, to buy bad claims in banks. In this way, we will, on the taxpayers' side, absorb a huge amount of money and, in the form of bonds, devote it to banks to transfer their bad investments to the Banking Company. A poor investment is not a loss, of course, not a zero, but it has, I'll say, any investment usually also has a certain value. However, it is of course a question of how the Bank's Claims Management Company will manage to restructure these investments, to resell them and so on, to pay off some of the liabilities it has created on the taxpayers' account through the transfer itself. By the way, banks are obviously more successful than countries. I am not saying this on the basis of Slovenian data, but on the basis of the experience with this abroad. On average, banks recover around 50 % of the value of bad claims and the country or state agencies have a significantly lower share, including around 20%. So we've made a transfer of EUR 4 billion, and let's say that in the most optimistic scenario – one that will go to the most at the expense of this government – let's say that we get 50% of the value out of this claim. So we get a refund on the liability management company for 2 billion euros. We did a great job! We have recovered 2 billion euros from poor claims. It's, like, an optimistic scenario. The Minister and the concept of the law itself, of course, say that the size of €4 billion in guarantees will also be financed by the disposal of banks. Now let's see what the value of banks is today. For example, a very optimistic scenario that after banks are cleared, the market value, on the other hand, also determine demand, you have to have a buyer – and in Europe we know that most banks are in such or other measures and have all sorts of responsibility to disinvest. They are said not to expand their capital investment, but to sell off their capital investments. But, okay. Let's go to an optimistic scenario, and let's say that for banks that are on some scale today, let's say 500, 600 million, let's make it that long. Let's say a billion two hundred. So remember, we're building this on the assumption that today New KBM is worth 100 million, tomorrow it'll be worth 200 million euros. Finally, we draw the line and find that we have given 4 billion euros in guarantees, from poor claims and from the sale of banks, we have survived 3.2 billion euros in an extremely optimistic scenario. This means that we have charged public debt with EUR 800 million. As we say, this is an extremely optimistic scenario. I wish you to complete it so successfully, but you will not complete it so successfully. Now let's take another look. Second concept, alternative. Instead of doing the whole evaluation problem, with feasibility, with the question of what a bad claim is, we recapitalise the banks and, as the Governor has indicated in his thinking, force banks to achieve their management by internal transfers or by linking bad investments between banks. According to Banka Slovenije's assessment, it is necessary to recapitalise EUR 1.4 billion. Let's say that this is some top amount because some others - say, the AUKN has calculated 1.2 billion, some others less. Finally, you find that you have paid €1.4 billion instead of €4 billion, and you have banks in your hands that you can sell tomorrow. Taking into account the same optimism now as in the first version, you will sell banks for 1.2 billion euros and thus cause only 200 million euros of public finances impact. Obviously cheaper, respectable!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u41	Sonja Ramshak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the president, to all colleagues and colleagues, of course also to the Secretary of State with a co-worker! Unfortunately, I also had to come by myself, although I believe that there are others in this Chamber who have more knowledge of banking and public finance. Unfortunately for myself, this amendment of the Social Democrats to Article 2 cannot be supported primarily because, in all that has been said by my colleagues and colleagues, it has not convinced me that they actually want to resolve the banking system and thus the Slovenian economy and the country as a whole. You mentioned a lot in the debates that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we were also not prepared to resolve the bank system during the previous government. Let me remind you that the Slovenian Democratic Party has put forward a number of proposals in the previous term, and unfortunately the ruling coalition, Mr President, please, if you could warn those present. [[...]] I think I was very right to them, and I didn't interfere with their words. [[...]] In fact, when we look back in 2009, when it was clear that Slovenia had also entered into a severe economic, financial and social crisis, a number of things were also proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party in the National Assembly. If I go first to the package of measures to improve the economic and social situation in Slovenia, April 2009, there were also measures to stabilise and normalise the financial system and the financial market. We have also proposed a new Law on the Guarantee Scheme, in which we have proposed a ban on state banks on the approval and reprogramming of Taiwanese loans, and unfortunately, we have also been voted on. We requested the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on the agenda item of the draft decision concerning the concealment of data to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by Banka Slovenije, etc., and we repeated the same thing in December 2009 etc. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are not laughing at what we are dealing with today, it is very important for us to get the country out of this severe economic and financial crisis. And when you speak so vehemently that we are not really in favour of saving the country and that we want to privatize under the table, I think it is quite the opposite; that some are getting very nervous because, finally, this law will justify the responsibility of those who bring the country into what we are witnessing today. I believe that by means of this law we will prevent everything you say, not so that we will prevent the corruption that exists today. Many times banks also behave, especially for those who are state-owned, incomprehensible. I mean, they don't approve of credits for good projects, and on the other hand, we hear on TV that someone can call the CEO and get a nice-looking loan. This, colleagues and colleagues, I have never supported, I will never, and I will be the first to criticise this if it comes under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u43	Mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I believe that it is difficult today in a fully divided policy, as well as in the professional public and the competent institutions of the system, to say with certainty that the model of consolidation of the banking system will be effective, fair and, above all, that it will enable growth and development of the economy, which is a fundamental objective, and will lead to the optimism of the population, that we live in a country that offers perspectives to working and business citizens. It's not my goal to assess the appropriateness of the solution. I would like to draw attention to another dimension of the problem and to the historical experience. In 1993 we issued property certificates for the possession of social property. These certificates said: "The ownership of companies with social capital is one of the important processes of our recent history. With this process, we will own the value of more than 2 000 companies in Slovenia. By owning it may become part of this value also yours." What percentage of our citizens have benefited from the pupils of this property, and we know today. And the problems we face today go deep into the past. The benefit of this property is only a handful, which was "very close" and well informed about the ownership process. Today, however, we are adopting a law that will additionally entrust the Slovenian family to about 8,000 euros. Whether this indebtedness of Slovenian families will lead to the process of consolidating the banking system and the country into a state of growth and development, a state of optimism and not fear, will be known within one to two years. But where ownership has brought us, we also know our strengthening of the public sector. The owners of a good part of the companies and banks are the state. This country also has names and surnames. Why is responsibility always and only the title owners and representatives of private companies and private property and never the state? When we make fair and equal treatment in this area, we will quickly move into a state of growth and development. Unfortunately, the consolidation of the banking system has not hit anything, nor has the Public Finance Balance Act. In banks that are state-owned, wages have not been reduced in any way, nor have the remaining ratings, and I hope that this law will indeed be a turning point in practice. Look, when I made a mistake at the company, I pay for all the consequences myself. Do you know how many mistakes have been made in the management of so-called state social property? It is known that it is clear exactly who were the holders of public authority. And if those of us who have created from nothing what we have created are in trouble, as we are being treated — for we all know how — why do not all others have equal treatment? Once we're done with this, we'll be out of trouble in no time. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u45	Mr. Roman Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam President! First, I will say that I will not support the amendment of the Social Democrats to Article 2 because I consider it restrictive in terms of the technical limitation of the work of experts, as well as those who are supposed to evaluate these claims. It was hard to be smart. It was often a question of who would appreciate it. This will be appreciated, and so it should be, experts; it will probably not be evaluated by Roman Žveglič, because he has no relevant knowledge, nor does my dear colleague Matjaž Han probably not – or I do not know. Just like you're very vehement with an estimate that it's going to cost 4 billion, up to 4 billion can be the most, so you're very vehement that this second, your thing, would cost a billion and a half. And I'm asking if it's for two months or one year. Then we'll have another one — how many? Another billion and a half! That thing bothers me. If we are not around ownership – unfortunately, I will say that the one who is being bitten by a snake is afraid of a twisted rope. And we just don't know about state property, at least so far in those 20 years, but whether it was this or another option, we haven't acted economically. What does it mean to one Janez of the Cossack Mountains if we have the largest bank in state ownership, if he can't get to it, if he can't get to smart credits or if he does, he gets under tougher conditions than the foreign bank he owns, let's say, next to that bank in that corner place. What does the budget have to do with ownership in state banks, except that it has to give a financial injection from the budget every so long? Apparently, they have connections, people's networks, which I don't think is good. Of course, I'd like to sell this bank with bad claims, but not to brand it, but to sell it well, let's find the buyer. And you, Matjaž, are willing to give up, I don't know, your property in Croatia, and put that money, your own, into this bank?Oh, my God! Probably not - or I don't know. I don't have it. Even if I did, I don't know what the guarantee should be to put into such management as we already had in the past in Slovenia, my money – because I would have bad promises about what will happen to this money. The economist, whom we all like to mention today — not by name or by name — is, of course, a great opponent of the bad bank. Thus, even the gentleman who said that certificates were worthless paper in the early 1990s, so people got rid of them very quickly and we got the first certified tycoons. The gentleman also said that investments are evil for Slovenia, the biggest and state ownership solutions for all Slovenian problems. I think the facts of the last 20 years have pretty much demeaned him. Of course, you can listen to it and you can take it into account; there may be other, ideological or other topics here to take it. But I'm not going to say that in financial circles, but there's a joke that whatever this gentleman says, it's very modern now, it's very likely that it's going to happen the other way around and it's good to bet on it. That's what we're going to do now if we link this thing up with the current. Once again, I will not support this amendment of the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u47	Replica, Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u48	My dear Roman! Now we can argue here about how to solve the matter, but I need to remind you that you know why we are arguing — because we have no analyses, no calculations, not for the other side! I'm gonna give you more difficult calculations for our calculation because we're not in the government and we don't have our own minister, unlike you, who's in the government, who's ruling, who's got all the data. Not only that! Mr Šušteršič and Mr Janša have the only information on all bad claims, and these gentlemen should have already done some analysis, some calculations before proposing a law, one such or another. You tend to lean on a farmer's mind a lot of times, but in my country of mind, there's a billion, billion, half, four billion. The law says four billion. That's where I draw from. But how much it takes to recapitalise, and I don't know at this point, because all of these economic strategies from your option have failed to tell you what that would mean if we recapitalised this bank. As far as my property in Croatia is concerned – did I understand you correctly? I think that one of your cows is significantly more valuable than my property in Croatia; but one of these cows quit, and I'm going to give up that property in Croatia, and let's put them in the bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u49	Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good-bye, everybody! Today I'm listening to where we have our analyses, our calculations, our reality, our reality. But, look, if we look around, look at the economy, see what our current reality is. I think we're arguing too much and convincing each other who's right, who's wrong, and no one's looking at what's going on in the economy. In fact, the economy has been suffering from a credit crunch for too long. If I tell you exactly what a credit crunch means in the economy, not even in that part of the economy that the future movement is supposed to be for Slovenia. These are small and medium-sized enterprises, there are up to 25 employees – they do not get credit for liquidity loans. Companies have been forced to forgive people in the last year. I know a company that, with 25 employees, despite a good vision, a project and a market where they could sell their products, was forced to reduce the number of employees to six. It's a credit crunch, but I'm not talking about some big liquidity loans. I am talking about the loan of 5,000 to 10,000 euros – they have not been given two years! I think that this is all too much, and if we want to help this economy, which we all know is moving towards the future of the Slovenian economy, let us make a deal and support. The easiest thing to do is, like children on their shores crying about how right one is, the other is right. I think that very little is taken into account here what is the actual state of the Slovenian economy and what is happening to people who are employed in such companies. We can only ask ourselves, not least where it leads. The question of time is how long these companies will be selling their business premises for their existence, so that they can spend maybe another month or two - if we don't do anything, it will be even worse! [[...]] What's the right concept for bank recovery? A similar concept that I support, as proposed by the Government, has also been used by Germany. Germany has succeeded, is one of the most leading in the European Union – why shouldn't we? I will support this concept myself, government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u51	Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u52	Thank you very much. It's about different concepts. Actually, there are two concepts. After all, they may also be intertwined: one is recapitalisation and nothing else. We've been doing recapitalisation for state banks for 20 years. We put in state banks a little over two billion 200 million into the New Ljubljana Bank, 1.5 billion and a half and so on. And how much did we get? And how much did the state as the owner get the dividend? And how much did this have a positive impact on public finances? He's fighting a little or nothing! Which, of course, means that some banks – and the Governor of Banka Slovenije said that those banks with state ownership are the worst owners. That was said. And not only did he say that, after all, the results show that. Today, private banks in Slovenia have a profit. Despite the crisis, despite the financial crisis, which in other words means that something is wrong in these banks. If we are talking about this now and if you also read the Ministry of Finance's explanation – it does not exclude recapitalisation, it does not exclude what is absolutely necessary, different management and different management of banks. This is not just one process, it is a transfer of claims, but it is true that this transfer of claims to a special society is the most transparent act. In any case, as far as the evaluations are concerned, she has set up the profession. And anyway, Mr Han praises me as a macro-economicist, although I have more experience than almost a micro-economist or a micro-economy; but whatever the case, I do not hope to impose such financial effects as Mr Frangež places on me, because it is already clear that 4 billion minus two billion, etc., for which banks will be sold. Sorry, these are serious and professional matters, and it may be difficult to involve pure politics in these matters because that is not how it works. This does not mean that the value of banks is determined here in Parliament. We may want to sell the bank at some price or the state wants it, but on the other hand, we need a buyer. We have been using cheaper and "effective methods", as you say, for 20 years and have actually come into a credit crunch and into a banking crisis with state banks! Ladies and gentlemen, I think that if there is another model that has already been verified in other countries, and if you look at the report of the European Union, how many countries have actually taken some successful measures in the banking field, also by transferring these contested claims or these bad claims to a special institution, then these countries are not few. And if these countries are few, I do not understand why in the Slovenian space this problem would be such as you actually represent it. We can do all kinds of things, and we can make them complicated, an extraordinary problem, an extraordinary problem. But if we're being honest here, if we're being genuinely concerned, I understand that. However, if there are problems, there are some who do not wish to transparently transfer credit maps to another institution to re-evaluate to determine liability, criminal and compensation, then this is another matter. I agree: yes, they were loans, they were loans with small insurance or no insurance or with the wrong insurance! Manager's buy-outs! Look, we got a lot of this. No problem! But the model we had for 20 years, that is to say, recapitalisation for recapitalisation, etc., was not effective. That is why we are now proposing something new, something else that will be more effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u53	Replica, Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u54	Mr. Shircel, I'm glad you said you were a micro-economy. It is said that if you make any decisions, you put certain matters on paper and calculate them. Why do we involve the political language in this story? Because we are all handicapped together because we do not have accurate analyses, we do not have accurate financial effects, and we do not have calculations on what it means to take one solution or what it means to take another solution. We with this data – at least the opposition, the Social Democrats, because we don't care about this country, but to some people, they prefer to be at home, we have no data on what will happen if we adopt the law that you or your government have written. We don't have that. And something else! However, if we read Mr Šuštersič, who is the main actor of this story, which in 2009, when Mrs Ramsakova said what you proposed, he said that "the state purchase of claims from bank rules means an unjustified gift to owners and managers who have brought the banks into the situation they are in today. It is not only a gift if the State purchases the claim at a market price. But that would make no sense if there was a market price. It is said that someone on the market is willing to purchase these claims, so buy them back and leave them out of this country. The State buy-back is only necessary if the State pays more for these claims than the bank would last receive..."
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u55	Mr. Han, you're abusing the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u56	I don't think I've wasted my time. [[...]] But that's what your minister said three years ago!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u57	I'm warning you again. Please, let's really stick to what a replica is. You can all come in. We didn't limit the debate, so we stick to some sort of order. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We have an extremely important material on the table, forming a so-called bad bank. I am therefore disappointed and surprised that the largest party in Parliament does not want to participate in these discussions. That's a bad sign to go on. This, in my view, is also a sign of some hardship, because matter certainly touches them – if not directly to Members, through their founders from the Master's. I'm going to start here because I thought it was before the previous Member said you didn't have any tests. He also cited different views of the current minister. When colleague Weber revealed the figures of the tax havens, the 20 billion that surprised me because I thought it was lower; although you certainly did not get this information yesterday, and not a year ago, that you had to have something as a government party to this information during your term of office, I believe that at least you ordered the analysis at the time. You really didn't publish them, but today we see that from the institute from which the former Minister Križanič came, they have a full solution and full analysis. Why did you not enforce them through Minister Križanič as soon as possible? Why didn't you take action when you made those transfers into the 10 billion tax havens? Wouldn't that be an alarm sign? Wouldn't it be time and a sign for the alarm? If you're acting like you have good macroeconomics in your wake, financiers, why didn't you want to use their knowledge for the good of this country? I've heard quite a few good debates today, I have to say, and I'm not criticizing the content, because as I said, there's no party here that probably has more knowledge of this state money out of the country, maybe even [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] I must say, these steps just didn't start. Now there's an epiphany that I'm thinking about to legitimize corruption in a legal way, as has been said on your part. The state must take steps. This could be a dangerous area. It's just that since you and the previous government didn't know how to do nothing, I can't say that this concept that we're implementing right now is the worst or the worst. I think it's a real attempt. It is our shared responsibility, however, that we will put an end to these steps when they are being enforced and to prevent these abuses, which are still occurring, from occurring. I also agree with what my colleague Frangež said that the tycoons need to go on a trial. I think the headlines were given when we had a special meeting at the time of the previous government and the tycoons were brought to the table. This is why I last asked Minister Gorenak and Plitschani why the law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin is not being implemented. Four months have passed, the prosecutions or the courts have done nothing yet! I wonder, for example, why, last week, if there are reasonable suspicions, they did not confiscate some of the assets of the Jankovic family. The legal basis is legal! The gentleman who was seems to be a young man. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u59	Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. In this part of the debate on bad claims, I will first try to give an answer on the actions of the former government, because it was clearly exposed to why it did not act. The fact is that the previous government has taken measures to prevent the further exhaustion of Slovenian state-owned enterprises. If you follow, during this period of three years when Social Democracy was the most responsible for the government, the banks also did not grant loans for Taiwanese acquisitions. That's a fact. However, if such a Thai takeover has taken place, this matter must also be cleared up on the date you yourself gave in this law — September 1, 2012. To avoid this, this date should be given at least to 2010 or even lower. But move! Banks were largely not credited – several times the colleague made it clear that a bank spasm had arisen. Yes, and the loans were not granted! But the fact that the previous government has set up a Capital Investment Management Agency is a concrete step in preventing the further exhaustion of Slovenian state-owned enterprises. Why did the previous government fall? For the most part, because it prevented this exhaustion. She didn't fall because she didn't propose a pension reform. Yeah! As well as labour market reforms and measures to help the economy, including measures to help banks, she has proposed all of this and has not fallen as a result. She fell because she broke those capital interests. Within the government, Mr Gregor Golobič wanted to engage his party, who was in the government, and as an opposition party, he strongly opposed the establishment of the SDS agency, which is currently the leader of the government. For both of us, we can honestly say that this is a capital interest, not a social party, but a party that is definitely in favour of capital interest. Even if today is not one of the opposition parties in these benches, I am not surprised because it is still, I would say, ideologically somehow the leader of this other opposition party Gregor Golobič and is just a reflection of what was happening. Social Democrats are the ones who seriously point out what is actually happening in the country and what is happening to our assets. Mr Šircelj earlier said that politics would not decide what a bad claim is; but look, in the Banks Management Company, the government is the assembly of this company. The government represents the congregation of this company. The government is political. This government will appoint those who will run this society; this government will determine the wages that will be paid by those who will run this society and will not have to be respected by the limits on salaries in state authorities and in state-owned enterprises. They will also be able to pay 30,000 euros. As long as you agree, you'll give them as much! There's no limit! Here I will point out again, although the following articles are still, because I intended to debate more on this, the difference between what we claim is again that it is not wise to set up such companies, but it would be better if, already, an agency originally planned in the first version of the law, because it is subjected then to the review of the Court of Auditors and the salary cannot be determined on its own. Once you determine the remuneration of those who will be followed by government interests in these administrations of the Bank Claims Management Company, the political interests will follow. That's a fact! Politics will directly determine what is a bad claim and what is not a bad claim! There's no profession here! You have eliminated the Bank of Slovenia, leaving only political decision as to what is a bad claim. Next, I will try to give a very clear answer that those 20 billion that we have heard from Echoes or Views that exist. This has been published and is the result. But once again, then in the next debate, because time will run out, I will explain that this will not be the money that will come back to Slovenia in the state budget. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] or increase the state's assets. On the contrary!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u61	Replica, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I'm going to have a replica because I think it was a good debate, but there were inaccuracies. Mr Weber has already implicitly indicated in his previous debate that this coalition – and above all points to our client – is making a law that will allow it, so he also said that they will buy this property from tax havens for cheap money. Of course, they are the only ones who have money in Slovenia! Now Mr. Weber has condemned my client and coalition to cooperate with the tycoons and criminals! That's the undertone of it. Now, if we're honest, Mr. Weber, if we had an analysis on the table of those who have money in the tax havens – how much, do you hope to say that there could be some of them who have ever worked with our client? I am sure that 80% would go to Forum 21, but in the last two years it has supported this missing party. The same supporters are now also Mr Türk, the President's candidate. It's exactly the same. This is a great danger for Slovenia that we will not solve it in the future if people fall for it. Those who are already the most powerful in the country and even in your opinion have the most money stolen abroad will make the fate of this country! I am pleased that you have pointed out that Mr Golobič is still in the background as the ideological leader of this party. But it would be good to mention also those who gave you up as a child and your candidate, and the paternity only admitted to this client. That's it. With regard to these transfers to tax havens. When we talk about who was in time to do what he wanted to do, last year, at an extraordinary meeting, I asked the question about these tax havens, when Mrs Debeljakova, then the director of the Tax Administration, said that more than 100 million, at the time, had not been told about what billions, had gone to tax havens. We also voted in the general debate, but then the government fell and we did not have this debate. But I initiated this problem! The government obviously did not want to accept it at the time; it could have been an offensive in this area, and perhaps today we could say that there are 12 billion abroad and 8 others would have been left behind and that this would have been a recapitalisation of banks and perhaps this law would not have been needed today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u63	The replica's still a mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Since it has been said what the government will do and what the government will actually find out – the bad claims I have been talking about. The government, because of the fact that this company is owned by the State, of course represents the Assembly and the government also places it as a congregation as an administration, whatever it is here. However, poor claims are valued by experts because the government cannot do so. Look, the government can't work, and every government has experts, just like the opposition has, hires, hires, or refers to them, that's how every government works. The government also proposes to members of the councils, if you want, social and health institutions and so on, but this is not a first-class political issue, but for these institutions, where members of the government are also proposed, we cannot say that these are now the institutions of one political party and so on. So much for information or my opinion that politics in this area is limited and is still limited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u65	Mr. Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary of State! First of all, I want to put a little bit of pressure on this defeat on the Slovenian banking system and I want to make it very clear here that I trust Slovenian banks with state ownership. But if today's proposal for a law on the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks is not adopted, I will think carefully about this – about further confidence. This observation by fellow Social Democrats, when we consider their amendment to Article 2 of the bill, that we will not be able to define bad claims, I strongly reject. I think that the Slovenian financial, banking, accounting profession has sufficient methodologies, standards, even European ones, if you want these bad claims to be very clearly, professionally and explicitly defined. They will not be defined or defined by politics, they will not be defined and chosen by ad persons. That's what I'm saying here, very responsibly. I estimate that the amendment to Article 2 of the Social Democrats is somehow too technical, also referring to the decision of the Bank of Slovenia, and I ask myself how the Bank of Slovenia would comment. We don't have that opinion. I would like to report first to the Slovenian public what we may have been missing all this time on the rehabilitation of Slovenian state banks. To the Slovenian public and to the last honest citizen who regularly pays taxes, all of his obligations, who is loyal to that country, I would like to report what we have written in the coalition contract, so I will read this so that I will not release any branch: "Acknowledgment of bad credits will also trigger the process of determining responsibility for their creation." Therefore, the process of determining responsibility for the creation of bad loans will also be initiated. Because I see that there is doubt in the Slovenian public that we will now make a bad bank and that then in some way all those who have made Slovenian banks state-owned will be saved. As long as I sit in this place. 90, I will strive to actually seek responsibility and to sanction all those people who have led the Slovenian banking system to this stage in which we are. In this place, I would like to thank the expert team that has been preparing the draft law. The draft was, however, a joint work. It is true, we differ in concepts, opposition, you say – especially the Social Democrats, because Positive Slovenia now serves somewhere else, but at the same time we get paid here in the National Assembly. Social Democrats say we have to go again with recapitalisation. What can we learn from the eternal recapitalisations of Slovenian banks? That they were not successful and that you criticize the government as a congregation of these shareholders of its people. So you're saying people should stay. How can the people who have led the banks to this stage stay and self-save inside the banks what needs to be repaired? We say that bad claims must be transferred to the so-called bad bank, and in New Slovenia once again and for hundreds of years we stress that it is extremely important what management will manage the bad bank. This will be of utmost importance. Look, our former fellow Member and Minister in the previous government, Dr. Matej Lahovnik, said in 2009 that a bad bank should have been created by then. And then there was no political will. I will not explain for long who objected, because in fact Slovenian taxpayers would have nothing to do with this. I call for the adoption of this law today, and I believe that a new period will begin for Slovenian state-owned banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u68	Ladies and gentlemen! It is misleading to think that the recapitalisation of state banks will not be necessary. We have heard here today, and I ask for an answer that even after the transfer of bad investments, it will be necessary to recapitalise state banks. For the first time. Next. I protest once again that there is no President of the Government, no Minister, and we do not get any answers. I am pleased that Mr Shircelj is answering on behalf of the Government, but if you will excuse me, it would be good for someone to speak on behalf of the Government as well. That's what I'd say. You know, you said we had two options and it would be good to have a comparison between one and the other to solve this problem. There's no comparison! Only one solution is proposed and this one is like a world. I think that the main problem is that there was no normal procedure for this procedure, that it was necessary. In fact, the profession had no place to talk and that the profession could not engage as much as it could: to get a comparison between what could happen and what would be better within the profession. It would therefore be right to speak again and again about what the profession actually thinks, but then politics decides which solutions are better. But my question is, what are you going to do in the calculation of, say, bad investments Bell One, Bell Two? They say a billion 270 million — how much will this investment, a bad investment, be accounted for? How much of this do we get? There are 1 million Slovenian euro in assets. That's what we're gonna do?Oh, my God! Let us tell the Slovenian public that we are essentially saving the investment of a billion 270 million of what Zvon One has screwed up in its entirety. This needs to be told to the public! Then you talk or talk about the Bank of Slovenia not giving information on what bad investments are and how bad investments there are. Sorry, Banka Slovenije does not propose this law. This law is proposed by the Slovenian Government. The Slovenian government must say what will happen; and I expect that from the Slovenian government! And one more thing. We are talking about saving bad state-owned investments. Ladies and gentlemen, we are saving all the bad investments of all banks in Slovenia belonging to the Bank of Slovenia. That's probably what you have to say. If that's not true, say it out loud that it's not true. This is said to be all the bad investments that any bank in this Slovenia, belonging to the Bank of Slovenia, will be resolved in this way. That's what the Slovenians need to say. It's not true we're saving only state banks! We save exactly all the banks, all the private ones, all the other banks that are here in the Slovenian space. One more question. Will we, ladies and gentlemen, be a credit crunch by dealing with the bad investments of the Slovenian bank – or will there be no credit crunch? Will the loans relax? Sign this and tell me that the moment we do this, the loans will run as we want and as we need them. They won't! It can't be! That's not true. That's not true. I have one more question. Look, we have three banks in part state property. I ask you: Why do not the other banks that are successful, which have a profit, which are excellent privately owned banks, lend to the Slovenian economy and the population? Why aren't these banks doing this? The problem is what we Social Democrats have warned us about: the economy is in debt, and the population can be in debt too. It would therefore be right for the opposition and the position to seek solutions together and not to save them. When I listened to the debates on the committee, I was dissatisfied because there was no debate because we had left the Social Democrats and the "Positives" because it was not possible to debate. At least today we can discuss and believe that we will get some answers. However, we need to tell the Slovenians, all residents and residents, that we are saving all the banks, not just state banks.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Dr. Krušec, Secretary of State, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u70	Thank you very much for the opportunity for some clarifications. The poor claim is defined by international accounting standards and the custodian of what is a bad claim is the Bank of Slovenia. The Bank of Slovenia also requested that the definition of a bad claim, which is already defined in the Banking Act, should not be reintroduced into this law. The custodian of what is a bad claim, according to international accounting standards for banks, is Banka Slovenije and no one else. However, the problem is that we have solvency banks, as Banka Slovenije mentions, but there is not enough trust in banks to be in debt on international markets and there is not enough trust in banks or capital enough to be able to lend to the economy. So we have some dichotomy: on the one hand, the regulator says that banks are solute and on the other hand there are no credits. How can this situation be overcome? Let's see, let's say, other countries. In other countries, trust in banks is being restored through independent reviews of the situation in banks, I am talking about those countries that have a crisis, such as Spain, Ireland; special institutions are being established that are specialized in the resolution of inherited investments – Spain, Ireland. If we look at these two countries, who have identified in the long term, for example, evaluation; whether this has been identified by the Asset Management Agency or by NAMA in Ireland. No! No! This has been identified by independent financial experts. This is why I doubt that this is such a big problem for us when we know that in other countries, where the International Monetary Fund is also included, the European Central Bank and the Commission have prescribed because these two countries are in the programme, that this must be done by an international credible appreciater. Next thing. Even if we did not take this appreciater into account, here is the European Commission. This can be because in all cases of transfer of claims either within banks or outside banks for State aid to banks, within the framework of their powers, which are very large, such an operation is prohibited. Thus, the European Commission could say that claims are inadequately valued; the aid to banks was too high; the reimbursement measures are too low. So this operation stops. It is said that long-term economic value must be crediblely presented and approved by the European Commission, otherwise such an operation is not possible at all. So this is the additional control mechanism that will find that the claim will not be overrated and that it would not give a gift to banks, as some say. For example, when it came to 4 billion guarantees and 2 billion cash claims. Yes, but: this would be true if such claims were overvalued because by cashing claims they would be undervalued. It is said that the Commission would not even approve such an operation, since such an operation would not have been approved by the Commission. The Commission has its own means of assessing claims. The Commission shall also hire its advisers to verify that claims are an appropriate valuation. But if we look in other countries. In other countries there was also a regulator, for example, in those countries in crisis, however, there was not enough to gain confidence. For example, in Spain, an international valuer had to assess the capital requirements and assess the size of the bad claims. Oliver Wyman! It wasn't enough that the central bank in Spain said, these are bad claims, these are D and E. It took a little more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State! What we have just heard convinces me even more that we are definitely right. One question, Mr. Secretary, if you really answer it. If we adopt this law and transfer the bad banks to this society, does it automatically mean that Slovenian banks will not have to be recapitalised? Is that clear? That Mr Jože Horvat will then say that we have been recapitalising things for 20 years and that we will no longer have to stop doing this. Does it mean that if we adopt this law, there will be no need to recapitalize the bank? I don't think – what I've been listening to you – because if we value things very low, because Europe is so telling us, then it will be clear that banks will have to recapitalise, because otherwise these banks will not be able to do what we all want to do best, start lending the economy in some way, because they simply won't be able to do what we want to do. So we're gonna make a bad bank first and recapitalize. That's all you have to say to me. Or in the case of the law that it will be adopted – and if you tell me that this law will make it possible for the banks not to have to recapitalize it, I will not reject this law. Just guarantee it now.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I can see the hands, so I'm opening an application for discussion. Please, the application is in progress. Mrs. Patricia Schuline. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u74	President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! We are still at SD's amendment to Article 2, which I cannot support because it proposes something that has already been explained here today. The SD proposes that certain claims be included in the class D and E credit rating according to the decision of the Bank of Slovenia. So let's leave the profession to determine what a bad claim is. As we have heard, this is also in line with expertise, with international accounting standards, as we have heard that there are several models in this evaluation. However, the proposed law before us is a good measure to strengthen the stability of banks, and the fact that the amendments proposed by the SD are only three to more than 30 articles, as contained in the proposed new law. The functioning of the Positive Slovenia, which obstructs, without making any better proposals at all, any amendments, and also probably shows that there are no better proposals for this law. Unfortunately, such behaviour on the part of Positive Slovenia has already occurred on the working body. SD, perhaps I would remind you of your coalition when you specify your former coalition partners. You chose them yourself and acted together – how, we all know, and where you brought the country, we know. We also know that you owe 9 billion euros, which unfortunately has not been reflected in the economy and now we are here where we are. This all-powerful AUKN of yours has also played a very bad role. If I remain with banks, then we know that the Nova Ljubljanska Bank has been recapitalised several times and that the AUKN has not yet proposed the discharge of the members of the Supervisory Board. We might still be able to identify up to 20 billion euros that have gone into these tax havens or somewhere else. We forget that if these 20 billion euros were to remain in our country and were included in the economy, this would mean, if I can estimate, about EUR 5 billion inflows into the state budget. So we're running out of money in the tax havens for our country's almost annual budget. It's partly the bank's fault, partly or almost entirely, at least from the point of view of me, those who hired these loans and then triggered that money to go elsewhere. If I mention another action that has taken place in banks, I would also like to mention this cash withdrawal when the company has authorized someone to go to the bank and raise cash, of course only to the amount of EUR 12 000, which is allowed when no amount or this has to be reported to the Anti-Money Laundering Office. If we calculate very quickly, if this happened ten times a day, then very quickly, the company came up with 120 000 euros, which, as we have seen with the tax inspections of these companies, was needed to pay the work in black. So we're back in the grey economy. We're back in taxes. Thus, Banka Slovenije caused this vicious circle by this way of acting. I will support this law because, in my opinion, at this point it is the only way to get rid of these bad claims or to try to relieve banks in this way, to regain their capital adequacy and to be a good support to the economy, which we know today is not, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u76	Thank you. I am very pleased that the Secretary of State finally said after two hours and 15 minutes of today's debate what is a bad claim and who is the custodian of a bad claim. Banka Slovenije is the custodian of a bad claim. Our amendment speaks only of the fact that a bad claim can become a subject of redemption only on the basis of the decision of the Bank of Slovenia. You exclude Banka Slovenije from this process. You only consult with Banka Slovenije. Banka Slovenije does not decide on anything under this law. You're just consulting. And to write into the law to consult with Banka Slovenije is, excuse me, a slight humiliation of the National Assembly, because as a government you can consult with Banka Slovenije at any time. You don't have to write that in law. The fact is that you exclude Banka Slovenije as one that is a key institution to determine what a bad claim is. Therefore, this law is not good, so it cannot be supported. What the Secretary of State has further explained is that when these claims are assessed, there will be a very high risk that this valuation may constitute State aid. And if this is State aid, it can also be unjustifiable State aid to this company and the European Commission will repeal this measure. Is that right? However, if it does not constitute State aid, on the other hand, it may also constitute damage to state property. See, this law also comes because everything that will be assessed can and will have to be reviewed by the European Commission. And what if the European Commission finds that this is illegal and unlawful aid? Then this marriage will become inoperable. We're not going to save anything. That's why this law is inappropriate. If you look at our proposal, which we've explained, if we go into the process of recapitalising the bank, it's off. If we decide to recapitalise the bank, you recapitalise it, and then the bank has to take responsibility for these claims and try to save them. Now we're gonna unload this bank, so the bank won't have that responsibility anymore. The bad claims management company will be the one to deal with it. Those who have done so will have no further problems. I would like to point out once again, but also to ask the Secretary of State to explain once again exactly what can happen to the purchase of the claim if this valuation is not such that it does not constitute damage to State property and, on the other hand, it does not mean State aid to a company where that claim will be transferred. At that point, this marriage becomes inoperable. It doesn't solve anything. Nothing at all. Maybe there's another 20 billion we're talking about. See, the problem is that this 20 billion will not come into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. That's the biggest problem. This law and the Slovenian State Holding Act will only allow this capital to be purchased by Slovenian state companies, insurance companies and banks at the lowest possible value. At the lowest possible value. You wrote that this is possible at real value. Today's real value is extremely low. We shouldn't even be doing this today to go on sale. It's not time to sell, but you'll do it at the lowest possible cost. Look, whoever buys the Triglav Insurance Company, the one who buys Petrol, the one who buys Telekom, and the bank, let's be clear, we don't have bad state banks! [[...]] These aren't bad banks at all. The one who buys these institutions will get this deposit within five years. And out of 20 billion will be created abroad 20, 40, 50, and they will not yet be subject to any review and any observations in the National Assembly, because under this law you will allow them to become private property. Since then, we have no further influence on this. The money's just gonna run out nicely. And 20 will turn into 30, 40, 50.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Matevž Frangež. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u78	In the past, I have deliberately tried to distance myself from today's search for guilt to look for those responsible in 2004-2008 or in any other period, because I do not think that this is essential for today's debate. But Mrs. Shulin, read again what we are proposing precisely, because we do not propose that these bad claims be added to classes D and E, but we propose that this criterion is a poor claim based on the methodology that Banka Slovenije or Banka Slovenije determines. Why, though, did the international economic crisis hit Slovenia so badly? Because we were not prepared for this crisis; because we had mismanagement in the pre-crisis period; because in the pre-crisis period we had caused the volume of bad investments in banks that had become largely due to the crisis; because their market value had so decreased in the crisis. But you know, when we talk about unity, for a way out of the crisis. If you ask me, we can quickly agree on what the way out of the crisis is if we know how we want Slovenia after the crisis. But our difference is that we see two Slovenias after the crisis. We want this to be one country that will be well-managed, which will have an economy based on its own knowledge and which will direct the capital resources of this nation to the emphasis of development. We believe that there is an important guarantee for this – since we do not have a domestic economic elite, one attempt to create a domestic economic elite from your time has failed and the only guarantor is the country. It's a state. And we will not be the only country in the world, there are countries in Western Europe that have been insisting for decades on the concept of strong state ownership of strategically important industries. And we need to agree on what is strategically important. Look, when you talk, only state banks are a mess. Here you have, these are data from Banka Slovenije, share of non-performing claims by group of banks as a percentage. You can see that private banks and private banks in foreign ownership until 2010 were at the same level as state banks in terms of such investments. Why, though, did it change later, and why has the country’s volume increased in the last two years in the proportion of non-performing claims? Why? Because, above all, foreign banks in Slovenia have retreated from lending. One bank, I could name it, and today I will not do so, has reduced its credit portfolio by one third, says 30%, the other bank that owns it in another country has reduced its credit potential by 40%, the third bank with a third country owner by 45%. The only ones who insisted on lending the Slovenian economy and the Slovenian population were system banks because they were aware of the same effect, the real withdrawal of credit, the withdrawal of liquidity in the economy, in fact, made an additional stalemate. Thus, despite the crisis, credit activity increased until September 2010. There we reached the unfortunate new regulation of Banka Slovenije, which increased and increased capital adequacy, and again we had an additional problem. State banks can be well managed banks, but here again we have a problem that some insist on political intervention in companies. So it's the same political intervention that created problems for us in these banks at all. Excuse me, what is a Slovenian state holding company other than a political institution that will decide how it will dispose of its assets and how it will be managed? Banks, too. We have to agree once that politics in companies has nothing to look for. Unfortunately, you have already resigned from this concept and this is a great shame, gentlemen, because this was a great opportunity for Slovenian politics to learn from its mistakes at last. Unfortunately, you are repeating a mistake, opening the door wide in this process – and you yourself know it – and you are doing it because you have an agenda. The agenda is a sale; sales because you want to fundamentally change the structure of Slovenian society, so you've been scaring people for a year, so you're lowering their expectations that they'll eventually be ready to accept a lot. The only thing you can do about it is that people are tired of recapitalising banks, and I suggest that we make a realistic assessment of what is worth more and what leads to more effective solutions. And that's not your recipe.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Pojbich. Please, replica, Mrs. Patricia Schulin. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I've been mentioned. Comrade Franz, I understand what you're proposing in your amendment to Article 2. But I sincerely hope that we do not repeat your mistakes over the last three years. I think that we have also proved this by adopting all the laws so far, that we have also reduced this enormous debt, that we have saved and so on. When these bank folders are opened and bad claims are identified, it will also be possible to identify who has given these loans; who has also given credit to straw companies, who has given credit to businesses without assets. I believe that the establishment of this company will also determine this, because I agree with everyone who says that this is absolutely necessary if we want to move forward as a country. Responsibility is key to everything we do. That goes for us, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u82	Thank you, Mr Vice President. In opening, I must say, and I am very happy with one sentence that my colleague Frangež said that politics in the economy has nothing to look for. Thank God, but I also hope that this Mr. Frangež, who is a member of the SD Group of Members, is serious! In particular, because we are also talking about this, everything we are talking about here is interlinked. If we want to get the country out of the economy, we need to find quality owners for companies; owners who will manage this property not politically, but according to the rules in force in the market economy. Now I must say that I will not support this amendment to this article, but I will support all the amendments tabled by the coalition. Why is Mr Jankovic's party SD and Positive Slovenia the most opposed to this law? I am sure that one and only reason – at least around most of the content there is no problem, we will easily unify ourselves. A key problem that is – and this is also the difference between recapitalisation and the solutions proposed by this law – is that we exercise responsibility here. It is the responsibility of those who care, dear colleagues and colleagues, you, from SD and Jankovic's list. It's the right responsibility. This law will allow these bank maps to be opened, but not in those closed circles, as it has been so far, that we have had no influence and today we are to blame for the situation as it is in the banking system. However, this law enforces this possibility to identify who is the one who has received such credits, who is the one who has given such credits by signature, and who is the one who called from behind on the phone and said that you must give this credit at such and such a favourable interest rate or almost without interest. If such people were not to have such networks in the background, they would not have such a situation and such a clairvoyant situation in this area in our country. This is what urgently needs to be changed. I am sure that this very law will also make order in this area. Our people can't wait to make some sort of order in this area. Thank God this government, together with Minister Šuštersič, is on the right track, proposing the right solutions because we have support, if you have seen, from the International Monetary Fund, from the European Union, etc. Everyone says we're going the right way, coming up with the right solutions. Many times today it has also been said how guilty we are that all reforms have fallen in the previous term. Ladies and gentlemen, if we had a little listening when we proposed only one, two or three amendments to a certain legislation, if we had adopted, all these laws would have been adopted. However, you have not been able to listen and this is a fundamental problem why this has happened in that mandate. You weren't able to talk to social partners either. Do not burden us with this and claim that we, the Slovenian Democratic Party and this coalition, have not adopted these solutions in the previous term! We are very pleased to hear your comments on every law we accept. Yesterday, the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, listed where we went against you when you proposed certain different solutions, as proposed in the first law; he said and wrote. It is not in the National Assembly which could claim that we do not want to cooperate with you to lead this country to the point that our people will have approximately equal living conditions in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Pogačnik has the floor. Please. There's no replica because he named you, but he understood you very well, even agreed with you. Mr. Marko Pogačnik has the floor. Mr Frangež, however, you have an endless minute to discuss when, of course, it is time to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u84	President, thank you for your word. Honorable representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues! There is no doubt that we are discussing a very important law today. We all probably agree that the start-up of the economy requires a thorough resolution of the banking system. We probably have different opinions about how the banking system is being repaired. I estimate we're talking about whether banks can be repaired externally or internally. I think it's high time that we start to rehabilitate banks externally because the internal way of repairing the banking system has not improved. In fact, problems have deepened. So far, NLB has been rehabilitated with about 1.6 billion taxpayers' money. The bank's business results are getting worse and worse. I will list at least two important arguments why it is better to rehabilitate banks externally than internally. The main activity of the bank is lending to the population and the economy. By seducing these poor investments externally, this means that banks will no longer deal with bad claims for which they are not qualified, and thus far they have proved to be no match. On the other hand, it is not the task of banks to deal with equity. By moving these bad claims out, the banks will be able to deal with their basic activity. On the other hand, it must be said that this law, which we are about to adopt today, is likely not to save the banking system, but will only be a lever so that the banking system can begin to recover. There's probably going to be a need for recapitalisation. But it will be important that the bank will then receive fresh capital and that this fresh capital can start to happen without 80 % of its time being used for what is a bad claim, which is bad claims and what will happen. It is also clear that Banka Slovenije is responsible, even though they deny it. It has not been used paragraphs 23, 44 and 45, under which the Bank of Slovenia could act. Undoubtedly, I find today's debate by the Social Democrats strange on the one hand, because the fact is that Social Democrats bear a great deal of responsibility for the bad banking system. You had power for three years, you had a prime minister, you had a finance minister in the end. Let's just say a few NLB results. In 2009, NLB set up a group of 56 million euros in losses. You said, let's recapitalize, the minister argued that this would save the bank, the board said the results would be better. In 2010, it created a group of 206 million euros in losses – again. This is the last bad result – we'll get better. In 2011 – €282 million in losses. This means that internal bank resolution is inadequate and does not produce results. The only ones who lose here are taxpayers. But the effect is not. On the other hand, in three years, you managed to turn the banks upside down. Why? The net effect in 2011 was such that the economy returned more money to banks than the banks put in the economy. We are a special country in Europe! And that means that the economy has been lending banks, not lending banks to the economy. Are you aware of this responsibility? During your term of office, however, NLB lost seven grades of ratings in credit rating agencies. For seven classes, NLB fell, and you have a responsibility as well. Leave this to the new government, which has found a solution, and it will take on its responsibility. But it is probably the most disturbing thing for the opposition that this government has found a solution. On the other hand, the external model will also make it clear who is responsible for the bad claims.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Days ago, we were faced with a statement by the former Prime Minister that his government had underestimated the problem of banks and had misdiagnosed problems in the country in its mandate. So we spent three years dealing with some solutions and underestimating problems on the key part. Why did Pahor's government misdiagnosis? Maybe because she had miscommunications, misinformation, misleading information in her cabinet of former governors. Ladies and gentlemen, don't say you don't have any information! All I've been hearing here all day is data, numbers, billions, how, where, why, what will happen, what won't happen, and so on. I wonder where that information came from. Either these are some house calculations or they're actually the data you're operating with. In some ways, it must also be found that the Slovenian banks were essentially some sort of self-service trade, in which some entered and stepped past the cash register. No one asked them why they enter through the cash registers and receive goods at a very discounted price or even practically without an appropriate margin. The Bank of Slovenia, too, if we call it a falcon eye – nothing has been detected in this area, has carried out no sanctions, no measures and no findings have been made in this area, at least not to make any known to the public. We have not been able to obtain any information, nor have we who have done so. The key problem at this point is probably not the decision to do something about this banking system, because now after all this time, we all know that something has to be done. The key problem right now is how. Either by establishing something in this process, or as before, that nothing will be found in this process; that we will make the process transparent, that we will know who were the ones who, on the one hand, decided who would get the free or very cheap thing, and on the other hand, that there would also be known recipients of these ratings. This set of these was probably not very broad: not those who made the decision, nor those who received it. I think there is a difference between us and you in that on your side the idea of some aimless recapitalisation, permanent recapitalisation in the banking system, because it will only pour itself up and there will be nothing to know about who, where and under what conditions, and on the other hand we have this proposal, where these bad investment files, bad bank claims are transferred with all those accompanying things and, if necessary, the thing, once it's cleared, is recapitalised. It is said that the matter in this part will be fully transparent and well-known. This debate, which we are following on the other hand, is actually a debate in defence of the privileged; those who have enjoyed the ratings that have received matters on favourable terms that have made abundant use of these matters. Even when we knew that there were major problems in the banking system, and that was last year and before last year, there was also a political recapitalisation of one of the projects, namely the Ljubljana Staff – in a political way. No one denies these special interventions that anything is wrong here. I think these things need to be said slowly and ensured that the control mechanisms work. Nor is it a good solution in your next amendment when you appointed the Bank of Slovenia as the Assembly, because this is incompatible. The controller can't be the owner either.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u87	Thank you very much. By the way, Mr Matjaž Han, you have not been mentioned before, but there has been mention of both the parliamentary group and the previous government you led, so I am giving you a replica. Replica, Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u88	I didn't lead it, but [[....]] Mr. Jože Tanko, I was disturbed by your claim that we are defending the privileged in this debate. So those who got some credits under, I'll say, such or other terms. That's not true. Everyone who is on the board of the bank today – this bank administration and also the new supervisors – has set your government up and I have nothing against it. I think they have a responsibility to find their culprits; those who have given credit under such and other conditions, and it is not our intention, because in some way, we oppose you in this legislation to protect the privileged. A privileged person has no colour: not party, not party or otherwise; but only all have the same objective: to obtain property in such or other illegal ways. I hope that Mr. Medja and his team and supervisors will discover this responsibility at the bank. That is why we do not need a new institution, because this institution, Mr Tanko, will be governed by politics! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Procedural Mr. Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u90	Mr. Vice President, I asked you for a replica. You have denied it to me before, even though Mr Pojbič has spoken of the former government and many others. Now you're denying me a replica, as far as I can tell, because Matjaž Han has just appeared on behalf of the Group of Members. I ask you politely to find justification in the Rules of Procedure for such conduct. I was previously appointed and I think that the context of my debate was previously misunderstood and I ask you politely to apply the same vats and the same rules for all in the management of the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u91	Thank you very much. You were named before, but you weren't misunderstood. Now, in this case, I have given your colleague Matjaž Han my word because of the reference to the direct and previous government you led and your parliamentary group. I said before that you will all have plenty of time to discuss, and your colleague from your parliamentary group, mag, has the floor in the debate below. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President! Well, I'm glad I heard that this law we're discussing isn't going to save the bank. It's just a lever for recovery. We've been saying this law won't solve the problem all the time! I would point out that this lever will be very expensive, 4 billion dollars, and it will go at the expense of taxpayers. As for the bad bank, another general note. It has been said, not only once, but twice in a short time, that the bad bank has been expelled from the Slovenian state holding company at the request of the Social Democrats. Really! But if only it was excluded from that law, but now we have a special law on a bad bank and there are many comments on this special law. For example, the observation that this will bring transaction costs of a dual nature. As this bad bank on the one hand increases fiscal costs, on the other hand it increases the non-creditability of our country in financial markets and in relation to the ECB. This I think is worth saying, because we talk a lot about the credibility of our country and how we are responsible for improving our country's credit rating. Indeed, the banks are the ones that need to be discussed in this crisis, but should be equally responsible for reforms, but the current largest coalition party in the previous term had a very, very different relationship than it does now. Let me remind you of perhaps another thing that belongs in the field of what you might call past merit. Antonio Spilimbergo said this: "The major obstacle to Slovenia is the international situation, and the reason for such a deep crisis is also in the unsustainable growth recorded by Slovenia before the start of the 2008 crisis." These are statements by the IMF or the IMF representative, not the current opposition. That's it. If I refer to other experts, then our opposition to an institutional solution in a bad bank would also be found in the context of looking at foreign examples and the Irish case was already common, as well as Spanish – not as far as I know, Ireland and Spain have not yet done with the crisis, but they also say that the increase in bank capital by buying bad claims through a bad bank is significantly more costly than the direct recapitalisation of banks. In the Irish case, it must be said that the deficit in the first year has risen to over 30% of gross domestic product and public debt to more than 53% of GDP. This is an Irish experience, and we'll obviously take that into account. There's been a lot of talk about the law, about how we deal with the law. Let me just say: the law in the second reading at the National Assembly did not have only two articles blackened: 5 and 36; 5 sets the seat and 6th entry into force. That our parliamentary group has tabled only three amendments is that we oppose the law, logically, but a slightly worse card is for the coalition, that in the third reading there are 36 articles of the 23 amendments. This just proves how in the last minute the law has changed very intensively and you can be satisfied that we have postponed the consideration of the law so that you can prepare the substantive amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. I don't think you were mentioned, it was Mrs Mag's general discussion. Majde Potrat and Mr. Ivan Grill have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Today's debate once again undoubtedly shows that if we discussed this law for another week, a month, the debate would always be the same as a broken record. One and the same insinuation, one and the same insinuations, one and the same claims, the throwing of some numbers out of the hand, there is virtually no substantive debate. If all those who ask again today some questions on which Minister Šušteršič explained very precisely in his performance on Friday – who did not understand this – I believe that there is not many, because it is not such a simple matter to read a magnetogram and it will be very clear to him. You've been expecting some sort of analysis here all along, some numbers. You know you can't prepare for this, you can't get it, because you just can't explicitly prepare it because things in the economy are changing all the time. Whoever has met with the economy or the economics study in any other way than simply reading newspaper articles, textbooks and so on will surely agree that the economy knows with a number of unknowns and has a practical theory based on examples from history that try to prepare some forecasts for the future, which are always considered to be uncertain and cannot be accurately stated that this will happen. Let me explain just one example from my study days when we heard about the subject of macroeconomics and microeconomics about the so-called new deal that in 1933 raised America from recession, and then I asked the recognised professor why this model was not used whenever a country got into such a problem. The answer was very simple: "That model could only have worked at the time and in those economic conditions in that country and it is unrepeatable." They are also two models, on which we share opinions both in the National Assembly and in the profession: either a bad bank or recapitalisation. Which model is better? No one is good, and no one will save the bank from itself! Let us admit that taxpayers will always pay for sins from the past — one or the other. But it is true that if this government, this coalition decided to recapitalise, I am sure that they would turn the board around and advocate a model of rehabilitation with a bad bank all the time. I'm sure of that! No, there's no time, Mr. Meh, so we can play here like in the sandstone. That's what you've been doing in your previous term of office for three years! If there were no real data, it could substantiate your guess as to why Minister Šušteršič changes his statements or opinions. Five, six months ago, he was certainly able to conclude differently from today on the basis of information that was flawed, which was not true. When did we get the information on the bad condition of our banks? Not long ago, the former Prime Minister, Mr Pahor, presented in a good way that the previous government had actually overlooked this problem or not paid enough attention to it and did not face it, at least he acknowledged it. But former Minister Križanič is hiding and running away from the cameras when he asks questions behind him, and he is certainly the most responsible and most likely to have had a variety of answers to questions that we don't have today. What model will we now use to solve this? I am of the opinion that the one I hope to adopt through law is the most appropriate one at this time. But if it were as simple as some say, why do our economists, whose opinions are even more fucked than in the National Assembly, not write a solution in some law that will accurately define all these matters, a model for forwards, consequences, savings, etc. With ease, I am sure that such a law will also be supported by the government and the coalition! But, Your Honor, there is no such thing! Let us face the fact that we are facing, and let us support this solution, which I think is certainly the best.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal has a mag. Diane Jedhan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u96	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! I believe that we all know Article 235 of our Rules of Procedure, which clearly states who can represent the Government at this meeting. Here is mentioned Minister, Head of Government Service, Secretary of State. I don't know the lady myself, but I suppose she's neither the secretary of state nor the chairman; so I find that: for the first time, the government is not interested in this area, which is substantively very difficult. President, I ask you to ensure the functioning of the National Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The government is represented by Dr. Dejan Krušec, Secretary of State. But he's just away right now and he's coming back. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. In view of the fact that many words have been spoken by various interlocutors, there is still something that needs to be said here. This procedure began at the end of June or at the beginning of July. At that time, a working group was established and this working group was composed of representatives of both coalition and opposition parties. In other words, this law did not come to the table in one day and changed in three or four days. Next thing you know, you have to say. In view of the fact that, at the last moment or in the last weeks or the last week, different institutions, different professional institutions, have made comments, in particular, additional amendments have been made in order to take these comments or amendments into account or to take account if the law is passed. These are the comments of the European Central Bank, the comments of the International Monetary Fund, the Anti-Corruption Commission, the Bank of Slovenia and so on, which means that this is not a solo action. If we are talking about models, and we are talking about these models most of the time, then we can come to a conclusion, at least in my personal opinion. First of all, the recapitalisation for state banks is not enough today. As a result, the system of so-called bad bank(s) or special company(s) for the management of claims should also be put in place in such a way as to transfer these claims there. However, it is not excluded, and there is nothing new here, and the explanation of the law also states that the recapitalisation of state banks, even in this case, is possible, but I believe that in a smaller amount than it would have been without it. However, these recapitalisations are always used for weaknesses because it is only a matter of recapitalisation, without clearing the bank. Then these weaknesses are so great that we don't even solve the credit crunch. And third, which is absolutely necessary: different management and management of banks. And that's what it's like to hear from the beginning in this hall, and it's nothing new. So I'm going to say we're not finding anything new. After all, we've talked about this a lot. It is, however, a fact that, as the speaker said today, or that we will then have enough credits as we need them. No! No! But it won't work when it's needed. If needed, it might go somewhere else, in another system that is survived and discarded. So certainly not on demand, but responsibly and also on the basis of the fact that the banks will actually get back all of that – it is money with the interest they have made. The following question emerged: how is it in other countries? Speaking of Irish. Ireland is today a country that has predicted and actually already has economic growth. However, if other countries are mentioned, then there is something else to know that Ireland has made a so-called bad bank, or NAMA, such as a shortcut for this bank, but has initially nationalised private banks; there were private banks and not state banks. But we have state banks. But how did they do that? By issuing these banks' bonds, the state was buying these bonds. Which means, in other words, that we cannot just tolerate one solution from some countries to Slovenia, but we must do it by comparison and by reason of intelligence. Speaking of sales and the fact that today is not the time to sell. I've been hearing this for, like, four or five years now, when someone's always talking about today's not the time to sell. I think if one thing were to be sold four years ago, we could say today that it was an extremely successful sale. For this reason, I ask all those who say when is it time to sell that today is not the time to sell — when is it time to sell? I don't think you have that answer today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u100	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have a problem; it is that the Slovenian banking system does not work as it should. We can do something, or we can continue to do it without end, and we can be a philosopher. Of course it's our decision. We decided to try something. In this light, there are two concepts for the resolution of this system: one is recapitalisation, and one is the elimination of bad claims. If anything is known, then it is certainly known that recapitalisations simply do not work. Today you can get a lot of information that we have already confused more than €2 billion in recapitalisation, that is two thousand and more millions of euros, but there are no results. Examples from the world are also eloquent. The Scandinavian countries, where Social Democrats always like to imitate each other, have, for example, opted in the 1990s for a similar case as Slovenia today decides. This means that they have eliminated bad claims and allowed banks to operate normally. On the other hand, you have the case of Japan from the 1990s when it decided on the case advocated by the Social Democrats today, which is recapitalisation. In Japan, it is said that the 1990s were lost and that banks simply did not recover in the same way as they should. The second topic I want to talk about is bad claims. Thousands of manipulations have been made on this subject. Poor claims are defined as those claims whose payment is late for 90 days. But the question is, why is this payment 90 days late? It could have gone the company simply "sugrund" and that money would never happen again. This is a definitively lost claim. However, this company can only be delayed due to the current problems with the payment of the loan and we will get some of these funds back. This is why it is sometimes quite funny when in Parliament it is operated with numbers that also vary by 5.6 billion, although you all know well, at least those who have listened to the governor in a closed session, that differences in these numbers depend mainly on the methodology of what banks would give as bad claims and what they would not give and so on. Therefore, those who say that it is necessary to calculate immediately today exactly how much it will cost us. I hope everyone who thinks understands that you can't do that. Because we, colleague Han, today don't know how much we can recover from a claim. Tomorrow we can be 1,000 euros, and tomorrow we can only be 800 euros. I don't know that, and you don't know that, and nobody knows that! As a result, those who talk about some calculations simply create false hopes that cannot be realized. Next thing, credit activity. Someone was talking about private banks' credit activity and government banks' credit activities. In Slovenia, there was a significant difference between public and private banks that private banks operate on an economic basis. This means that if the project is good, banks will in principle lend to the project. In addition to the argument, there was a political reason for someone to receive a credit in a good name. I think there are even politicians on TV who said they went to the bank to lobby and ask for money. One of them must be Zoran Jankovic. I don't remember who was talking, but someone said that there after 2008, 2009 private banks also began to reduce lending to the Slovenian economy, while state banks were still doing it full. This is exactly what I see in this spirit: the crisis has come, private banks have responded to this crisis in such a way that they have simply not given any more credit to tear-off projects, while state banks have done anything else. I would really like to ask the opposition, because I think it's a shame, we already have so many problems and we and the people and all of us, that it continues to be intimidated by various issues, such as total sales of state property, job losses and so on. I believe that the Social Democrats will give a special award to your colleague, Janko Webro, because he keeps repeating these views. But I think by constantly repeating these fears, we just don't get anywhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u101	Thank you very much. You weren't named, but he's got a word for it now. And then there'll be an open list to discuss. Please, mag. Andrej Dejan Jidan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u102	Vice President, you're changing my name, you're putting me in a bad government -- what are you going to do to me today?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u103	I apologize to you again for the lapsus.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u104	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, it is important that we talk as little about two things as possible. The first is that we do not essentially dissect the functioning of the previous governments today, because if we do this, believe that we Social Democrats here will talk by tomorrow morning and describe what the government has done from 2004 to 2008 and what it is doing now, and we will not end. On the other hand, respected colleagues and colleagues, even when you may be looking for one of ours, you may also find two or three. Well, it's a good thing we don't talk about it because we're saving things up. Another thing that's important. We must not mud Slovenian banks. Today, when citizens and citizens of Slovenia look at us, they get the feeling that our banks are the worst thing in Europe and the world. That's not true! What's interesting is that it's not true! Indeed, I must say this, however, that so far the country has not intervened very much in the way of the functioning of Slovenian banks in order to help them with the state money as well. We're still talking about strong recapitalisations, and I have to say the number again, because we're actually still talking about numbers that we're not saying then. Indeed, during the crisis Slovenia invested EUR 600 million in recapitalisation in banks in Slovenia. This is an enormous amount and we are very badly ill-willed, but the other countries with which we live in the European Union have mostly invested significantly more. Once again, at a time when we have invested less than 2% of our GDP in the operation of banks that are guilty of stagnation or setback at this time, Germany has invested 11% of its GDP in the functioning of its banks without major debates in the Bundestag, without insuring its and its foreign markets and its citizens. If Slovenia invested so much in the last two, three years during the crisis, it would not be 600 million but 4 billion. The other thing to say is this. It is true that banks abroad borrowed too much money from 2004 to 2008. I do not want to blame the previous government, nor the regulator, because I do not know all the details, but it is true that we lived from 2004 to 2008 very much on the pouf, each year the debt, gross debt of Slovenia, which was essentially generated by Slovenian banks or banks operating here, increased by EUR 6 billion per year. So we financed the economic growth that we had at the time, the spending that we financed in one way or another with money, with 6 billion that was not Slovenian money, but borrowed money. At that point, someone probably should have stepped on the brake, but he didn't. But what it is is. Not to say that this trend of additional billions, billions and billions, which would increase Slovenia's gross debt, should continue because it is not. Slovenia's gross debt even declined in the days of the Pahor government, which hurts. But cut back – I'm talking about gross debt. And if you want, I'll tell you later the definition of gross debt. This then simply did not happen because there was no more capacity in Slovenia, but those mistakes also caused problems in Slovenia. That is why I call on you, honourable Members, to do so. Please, don't scare people anymore, because with this fear you won't achieve that Slovenian citizens and citizens will be quiet and bow their heads, you'll achieve what you don't want – they won't spend any more. However, because they will not spend, there will be no more money in the state budget and then you will actually torture them further. If you really mean progressive and positive, let's agree on a system to save Slovenian banks in a way that we will not invest 4 billion, but a billion and a half. Let us also give some hope to our public servants that they are not the greatest evil, but they can also be an opportunity for this country, and then I believe that you will also have the uniform support of the opposition, which you obviously want so badly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I find that there is still a desire for a debate, so I am opening a report to the debate. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u106	Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe three, two questions and one statement or one opinion. Is it time to sell today or a few years ago? It's never the right time! However, when we decide to do so, it would be wise for us to unify ourselves: that it is time for sale, that we know what we will sell, what the consequences will be, and how much we will get for it. We don't know that today. With the Slovenian state holding company, with these banks, we do not know anything: we will never sell to anyone or know what the consequences will be. For us, however, it is essential that we sell a company that is very important to the national economy and employs a lot and that the foreigner will then impoverish it by shutting down jobs or by not buying our products, and then this is bad for us. In the area of construction, we are close to being built by all foreigners. Another time. Mr. Shirtzelj said something I may have misunderstood. He said the banks would get what they loaned by designing a bad bank. If that is true, then it is – I believe that how it will be, because otherwise it would not be possible – then it is a question that banks cannot get what they have received; because if they did, then it is what we have been talking about all along today. I didn't get it right, and maybe it would suggest that someone would explain what the banks would get. After we set up a bad bank. There is something else that should be said very aloud to the Slovenian public. In addition to creating a bad bank, we will recapitalise state banks. No one knows how much, and no one knows when. And it is necessary to tell Slovenian taxpayers and citizens and citizens that we will put in a bad bank all the bad claims of all banks in Slovenia and that the credit crunch will therefore not give up. If 21 or 22 banks are in Slovenia and 18 are doing well, then it is necessary to tell Slovenian citizens and citizens why the hell this bank is not being credited by the economy and the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Dr. Krusec, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I would like to clarify some more about the recapitalisations, because there were some questions whether banks would also be recapitalised at the time of the transfer. In fact, the transfer will be carried out at real economic value. If this value in these poor claims is found to be lower than that in banks’ books at present, in some cases because of poor claims, then recapitalisation will also be necessary. However, it is essential that, if no transfer of claims is made and only recapitalisation is carried out, this capital is intended to further weaken already bad loans. While the transfer takes place, this capital is earmarked for new loans. This is also the answer to our question why the credit crunch will drop. Because that capital that will be invested in banks will be earmarked for new loans because the banks will already be cleared. While the banks will not be cleared, we will only put capital into banks, and banks will treat this capital in a cost-effective manner because they will save it for additional impairments of bad claims. You see and this is also the focus of why there has been no effect on new loans in the previous recapitalisations. Banks have been heavily saving with their capital to further weaken bad loans and have been focusing banks on bad loans, not on new loans. This is a crucial matter. Another key point is that if we recapitalise banks, without excluding bad claims, the banks will gradually identify losses because the bank also recognizes losses in accordance with international accounting standards and also because of the precautionaryness of the loss gradually, it does not immediately recognise all losses as it believes it is necessary, but rather the loss as is minimally necessary. Thus, if only recapitalisation were to take place without the elimination of bad claims, this solution is also not transparent, as the market would see that banks have additional capital, we know that this capital will mainly be designed to identify losses of bad claims and therefore this is not a transparent solution and is probably a greater option, despite the fact that banks are recapitalising that banks will not be able to finance in international markets. This is, however, an essential final result of this measure. That is why we want a transparent cut because we want banks – including by markets and credit rating agencies, who now feel that banks are not clean – not yet adequately addressed, even though banks will have capital. However, if the banks want to achieve transparency after the recapitalisation, they should sell off the bad investments immediately. The company will have five years of time. If they had done so immediately, they would have sold out a lot of insurance or claims under real economic value. Why? Because the real economic value does not take into account liquidity risks. In Slovenia you have huge markets or a few markets are those that are inequitable. For example, a housing market where there are very few transactions, a business property market or land. So if banks were to do this forcefully, so to speak fire room as they say in professional terminology, they would achieve lower value; so this solution is not only as expensive, but also more expensive for the cost of transparency It is an essential difference. It is said that a bad bank – and in other countries, bad banks also have a chance for more than five years. In Ireland, for example, an option is made for a period of ten years, so that the bad bank can decide on its own when that appropriate moment for maximising the value achieved in the divestment and through it is also to minimize the cost for taxpayers. So the solution to recapitalisation without exclusion is more expensive than determination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u110	Thank you very much. But now we've heard what we've actually heard in the last two days, and even intensely in the last three hours, we've been saying. Now I would like to hear all those Members and Members who have been vehemently saying that the recapitalisation has brought nothing in the last 20 years. I agree. But, ladies and gentlemen, we're still going to have to recapitalise, but we're going to have to make a bad bank first; and that's what we said. In order to underpin, you probably did not all read the law, Article 2, where it already says to you in the article itself, says first that you will have to make a bad bank, and under the third indent, "in view of the available data, it is estimated that the value of the recapitalisation will not exceed one billion". But you've already written this down in the law, but it will also have to be recapitalized. And one more thing, ladies and gentlemen – it's a shame that Mr. Tonin went out when he says what a great marriage it is! But today we do not know how much we will survive these bad claims! And today we're saying it's a great law. Where does it say that in five years we will be able to make a bad claim like Zvon One's bad claim, but I don't know which one to sell? Where does it say that? So it's all going to be on the taxpayers' backs. You've written four billion in marriage, you've written a billion in marriage, you're going to have to recapitalize. And one more thing, I have been in this Parliament for just as long, that I know that when you file a law, you also have to write financial effects, otherwise the Law and Law Service rejects it. We don't have that either! And that's why we're skeptical. So Matthew, talking about the law, you don't know at what price, at what market value you're selling, is extremely irresponsible. Now the Secretary of State has made it clear to you: bad bank, 4 billion and recapitalisation. The alternative solution, ladies and gentlemen, is to evaluate matters realistically and in bank balance sheets to present bad claims and to go to Europe for money with such matters. We will now make 5 billion minus our taxpayers by having a major policy impact on this agency or society, which is not good. And who will deal with companies that have not yet failed, which are only classified in this quota of bad claims that still live? Who in this society will deal with cash flow, business, insurance, guarantees — who? Those 20 people? No! No! You're going to put the bank back in, and you're going to pay the commission again. But worst of all, when we do all this, you're gonna sell the bank to private capital. Ladies and gentlemen, unthinkable!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Yes, the replica, you've been named, and now explain what you didn't understand. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u112	I think Mr. Han's overdoing it a little bit when he's saying that we just don't understand anything. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] - Well, that's what I understood, and then you're gonna be mine. [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u113	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u114	Then you'll replicate to me if I get you wrong. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u115	No, he won't replicate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u116	Okay. But what I'm saying is that you keep talking about how 4 billion euros is going to be thrown in. But it says that these are guarantees, and no one knows whether 2 billion will be spent, 3 billion I just want to prove it to you because you don't want to understand me or you misunderstand me that you people are constantly stressing that here we have 4 billion euros that the state is going to throw in banks, and that's concrete money and that's why it's going to have less, the less; but it's not about concrete money! [[...]] This has been explained several times by the Secretary of State, and you are repeating this over and over again because you know that it is about guarantees and not about money. And you know this too well that it is not necessary for all 4 billion euro guarantees to be used, it will also be 2 or 3, it may happen that this is too small, you are right, it can happen and we will have to accept the amendment of the law where we increase it. It's all possible. But, colleague Han, you've been here a long time and you can be right, but I know sometimes you don't want to be, because it suits you for political reasons. And there's only one more addition in terms of procedure. It's a bit of a precedent for me, because we talk to each other all the time about who's in the hall and who's not in the hall! I can't even go to the bathroom. And a fellow Jew who keeps talking about how the secretary of state isn't here – he's not here again! I'll bet he's less than the secretary of state in the hall. I think we have the right of Members and Secretary of State to use the toilet and the sandwich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u117	Thank you very much. But, mag. Tonin, you're a name-leading specialist and a turn-on. I'd just like to say a word to Mr. Tomaž Lisco. Excuse me? Excuse me. Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u118	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, you have rightly given the floor to my colleague, Židan, who referred to the rules of procedure whereby representatives of the Government are obliged to be in the Chamber during the legislative procedure and therefore usually have two representatives. However, as with Members and Members, the Rules of Procedure do not speak, only this is said that no one can replace it in the vote, which is the subject of a plenary session. And that, Mr Tonin, was wrong to point out here to a fellow Jew who, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, pointed out the absence of representatives of the Government to deal with the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u119	And what is your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u120	In view of the fact that it is impossible under the Rules of Procedure to evaluate the status of a Member and the status of a representative of the Government. And there's a difference. I would ask that in the future we ensure that we have adequate representation from the Government so that we do not have to make procedural proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I explained earlier in my reply that the Secretary of State is only currently absent and is coming. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u122	Thank you. Nice hello to you all! The more I listen to this debate, the stronger my conviction is that the banking situation in Slovenia is really bad. I have a feeling that there are two castes in Slovenia: one is a handful that gets credit with beautiful eyes or a short call to some government of a state bank, and we have 99% of all those citizens who don't get credit or in the final phase don't even ask for it because this credit is too expensive. Then, in early October, we come to this absurd situation, even though we agreed in June to do something about banking in Slovenia, again some are trying to hurry slowly or deal with new and new models in the resolution or rehabilitation of the banking system. Today, there was very little talk about the responsibility of current and former governors. For the last time, I said that a former governor for the prize had won the entire city of the Minister for Development. In a normal European country, we probably would not have experienced this, but in Slovenia we are used to everything. We have not even talked about the responsibility of members of administrations or members of the Supervisory Board in individual state banks. When I talked to people about banking this week, I learned a little bit about banking, and many of them said that the main problem was the Governor of Banka Slovenije, who with many citizens as well as an expert, about experts a little later, no longer had confidence in his operation. Many say that Banka Slovenije is one of the main culprits, why the banking situation in Slovenia is so bad. We are talking about recapitalisation; different numbers, over 2 billion are to be invested in state banks in these years. And what do the taxpayers have to do with it? Nothing or we have problems! Why? As I said before, 99% of those who want to have credit don't even get it or it's too expensive. I say, thank you so much for such a recapitalisation! There was some talk about national interest. Once again, I invite all those heroes who want to buy, for example. The new Ljubljana Bank for 1 euro, which also gives you several billion unsecured or poor claims. I'd love to. Here you go. I don't care who buys this bank, whether it's a Slovenian citizen, or whether it's an American multibillionaire, or someone who has an interest in investing anything else in Slovenia. I think we need to agree today, and this law also implies that we need different managers in Slovenian banks, that we need a team of professional and responsible people to ensure the stabilisation of the banking system and the transparent functioning of state banks while they are still in state ownership. There was a lot of talk about what we did, what we didn't do, what was taken into account. The work of this commission, which prepared this law, proved to be difficult. There were probably very hot debates in the government, including in procedures within the National Assembly. Nevertheless, we still have debates, a lot of amendments, so I think that when the writing comes, we can all see that this law brings a lot of good things. What has bothered me very much in recent days is that my colleague, Jakič, is not here, but there has been a lot of talk about these so-called experts. They were nameless. There were very few words about real names, and let me quote two experts, one from abroad, and one from Slovenia, for which I can tell the names later. The first from abroad says: "The first thing is, the banking sector must be aggressively and seriously engaged. This means the rehabilitation of state-owned banks, of course NLB, NKBM and thus the total withdrawal of the state from the financial sector." So these banks need to be rehabilitated and set up a bad bank. Another expert: "It has been exactly three and a half years since my colleagues and I issued a call to the politicians to address the problem of bad loans immediately through the so-called bad bank. The ability of the government, which led Slovenia in the previous term, is all told by the fact that not only did the bank's rehabilitation not want to go, but its former ministers are still saying that the banks are not in such bad shape..." and so on. Before I get ahead of myself, let me say that I am not interested in the opinion of the Bank of Slovenia on this law. Why? I believe that their operation in this marriage is not professional, but they want or feel the need for [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] due to non-action or failure to act on weaknesses in the Slovenian banking system. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Plevčak has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone! We are talking about banking and banks that accompany us for 20 years of our independence. During these 20 years, governments and governments have been changing, and ownership of these banks cannot be discussed from 2004, 2008 to 2011, and so on. The state has always been in debt, but it is indeed rather uncontrolled at the time and at the time when the most loans were granted; approved over all the rules, as we say, with beautiful eyes. Who's to blame here wouldn't particularly discuss it. We all know that we are in a difficult economic situation. We are now dealing with administrative solutions in Parliament, but in the end we have not contributed to making a step forward in the economy. We're still in position. Nor did our reforms have the necessary effect. From this title, I believe that it is imperative to approach the restructuring of banks, the establishment of a bank debt management company. Much will depend on the further implementation of this law, because I believe that the greatest responsibility in this part will be borne by those who will be appointed executive and non-executive directors. Here will be the great task of all of us, both the opposition and the position, that we will really set up those right people we can trust; those who will not have a bad background; those who will not be overly involved in politics in my personal opinion. Because we know that so far, politics has still had its own toes in management. We're talking about bank weaknesses, but we haven't gotten one special list yet. I hope that, at least in Parliament or in special closed sessions, we will be able to see and discuss what would be extremely interesting, especially for us, who are a little older and perhaps look at things differently than the younger population. Bank weaknesses can be divided into two parts: one is those that can be saved, and one is those for which solutions cannot be made anymore, and it will probably be necessary for them to be sold, so that something can be done. Our banks are still liquid. I hope they will and our savers will remain loyal to the banking system, because if we look at everything else, shares and bonds and everything, it is an uncertain investment. They are still the safest investments for small capital, for individuals in banks, although for rather modest interest. I think we need to approach this law. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we will support it by saying that we have also succeeded in carrying out the audits and reporting immediately in the event of errors identified, by submitting information immediately or by applying to the relevant authorities and by issuing temporary prohibitions on the management of their assets. I think it would be right for those on this list who will fall under this control to prove for themselves where their property is so much; where they got so much money and so much personal property. I think it's the only possible solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u126	I must say that no intervention, including some responses, welcomed the Secretary of State's responses, has convinced me that the government has chosen the best course. Once again, it has to be said that this path is not based on one single financial projection, only on the state guaranteeing 4 billion euros in guarantees. Because I think that the debate at the first amendment is being exaggerated to its end, I would like to point out that I think that the involvement of all relevant institutions should be strengthened in solving this, certainly one of the biggest problems in the situation. But I want to do my best to this country, because I want the Government to make the best decisions to adopt such recipes that will be the most feasible and will not represent a potentially excessive burden on public debt, and thus for our taxpayers, that this approach also has the good side. This means recognition of the problem in its entirety and, consequently, an appropriate signal to the relevant financial markets, that Slovenia is ready to solve this problem and has leverage to solve it. Nevertheless, he speaks against this concept for several reasons. First of all, it is evident that this represents a huge cost for taxpayers, that as a result the burden of public debt and our structural deficit will increase radically and that public debt can be dangerously close to 60% of gross domestic product, as you know, the Maastricht border. The case has an unfinished financial structure. In such a serious operation, ladies and gentlemen, such as the transfer of money on the one hand – also the bond is money, the bond paid by the State for its future return – but we would expect a much more elaborate scheme. I am afraid that the Government has decided to use as little information as possible, to exploit the high trust that this government has in the ranks of the ruling coalition, and to carry out the procedure. But, my dears, the way this law is adopted prejudges all that we will then face in its implementation, and this will be a chronic lack of information to the public in order to cover up responsibility. You've been going through a lot of times today. By the time of the government, Janez Janša had already carried out one such mass financial operation. Remember, the guarantee or the takeover of Darsa's debt. At that time, a political decision was made: the highway cross will be completed immediately. What caused this? Of course, the builders wanted to pair up properly and were therefore in charge of acquiring capital, hiring people and so on, and in line with the increased dynamism and the changed financial structure of highway financing – 80% of the debt, 20% of the tolling funds – were forced to borrow credits. Then, of course, at the time of prosperity and fat cows, they also received them. Today, the consequences of such decisions are evident because these loans represent an important part of the bad claims in banks as well. I want to tell you that the moves we are making in this House can have long-term and dangerous consequences. I wish we were careful about this and to press the "for" button only if we are very confident that the chosen path is the right one. I can't imagine, without any calculation, without the value of the maximum impact, not only financial for public finances, but also the defined impact on whether these measures will actually ensure what we all want together; and this is the release of credit potential and the consequent start of economic growth. No, we don't have any guarantees! The law is poorly prepared, poorly corrected in the parliamentary process and I fear it can bring no good. Once again, I wish we were wrong and you're right, but for now, I don't have any. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Frangezh. I ask if anyone else would like to discuss the second paragraph of Article 2 and the amendment. I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Janko Weber. Please. I'm sorry. I'm opening the list. Mrs. Patricia Schuline.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u128	President, thank you for your word. The amendment of the coalition groups to Article 3 shall in particular set out the purpose of the law and the objectives of those companies. It is true that 24 amendments to 36 have been tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups, but it must be said that the comments of both the Bank of Slovenia and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank have been taken into account, all with a view to improving the law. The International Monetary Fund mission also has a positive opinion on this law. Members of the SD, all of you who are sitting here today in Parliament have also sat in the previous composition of the government, and you were then warned by experts to approach the resolution of banks, to their rehabilitations. Why didn't you do it? You had a finance minister of your kind, Mr. Krizanic. According to some information, the minister did not want to join the banks' rehabilitation and today he is Mr Križanič, reportedly a consultant to Hit in Novi Gorica. I am afraid of what will happen to this society if it has such a consultant – who, at the time of the red light burning for the rehabilitation of banks in the previous term, has not joined. This law also provides in particular for criteria to be laid down which bank is entitled to be included in this resolution system. These criteria are the importance of the bank for the stability of the financial system, then also the size of the problem and the capital adequacy of the bank. In addition, the bank involved in this company’s programme will have to draw up a business strategy to show what its recovery means for the economy and to what extent and to what extent the costs of this resolution will be borne by the banks themselves or their owners. As we have already heard; please no longer move around these 4 billion guarantees. This is indeed the first moment, at first sight an immediate public debt, but these 4 billion will also pay or cash the insurance and by cashing out claims and also by selling state shares in banks, this will then decrease. Both the government and the prominent experts assess that the adoption of this law is necessary and that these procedures can only begin when this society is established. In the old model of recapitalisation, I hope that we have realized that this is no longer the case today in all this debate. I also ask the coalition Members that we can resolve more in these debates, but in the end, take the opposition approach to the adoption of this new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u130	Actually, thank you for the kind invitation. We have approached the adoption of this law from the very beginning, when this law has started to be discussed, but, of course, the solutions in the law are not such that they can be supported, and unfortunately, the amendment you are making as a coalition to Article 3 is not such as to enable us to support this amendment and also the law itself. Why not? We are discussing the objective, the purpose of the law, which establishes a company to manage bank claims. In this context, I would like to explain further – I welcome the Minister between us – why has it been decided that the purpose of this law is to set up a company for bank debt management, and why not an agency, for example, to manage bank claims? The difference is that the company is a company and is not subject to the supervision of the Court of Auditors, is not subject to the supervision of the National Investigation Office, is not liable to information of a public nature, but if it were an agency, it is a State authority which is bound by all public information, is subject to the review of the Court of Auditors and, last but not least, the National Assembly has significantly greater powers over the Agency than the company, such as the management of bank receivables. This is also a key issue in the objectives. Even the text, that is, the reason for this law, ran in the direction of the agency at some point, and then the government suddenly changed its mind and mediated a solution with society. Really, first of all, that's the question. Why don't you defend the establishment of a bank debt management agency? The fact is that the wages at this agency are then subject to restrictions and it will not be possible to pay a salary of EUR 15 000, as you have somehow announced between the lines that the salaries in the Banks Claims Management Company would be four times lower. Look at the wages they have, say, in the Capital Investment Management Agency! Four times what you're planning! Why such goals and these changes — we would like to have the answer again. If this company is set up to manage bank claims as a target, it is largely because there are four billion guarantees in this law and thus an increase in public debt, one of the key issues, which is not recorded in these objectives. The Bank of Nova Ljubljanska is also co-owner of the Bank of Belgium. Once we transfer the claim under this law to the Bank Claims Management Company, we will also rehabilitate the Belgian bank. I'm asking you, is it really the goal of the Slovenians being rehabilitated by the Belgian bank? These explanations, I hope to get them; for, if this is a transfer of claims, it is also a rehabilitation of the Belgian owner who has his share in the bank. If it were to recapitalise the bank, it would be possible to redistribute the owner and have no rights whatsoever to draw, say, our funds or our guarantee for it and burden our budget. In this way, the Slovenians will also be saving the Belgian bank, and I really don't know why we need it. In addition, it should be noted that the representatives of the Belgian bank in Nova Ljubljanska Bank were in charge of bad claims. Therefore, the members of the bank's administration were responsible for verifying the bad claims or investments approved by the bank. Next question: Why do we have even more representatives of this bank in the New Ljubljana Bank than before, what is the current share of the Belgian bank in the Ljubljana Bank, and are they even entitled to have their own representative? And then maybe the goals of this marriage will be easier to understand and know what it's all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Matevž Frangež. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u132	Before that, much debate had been held on what had been done in the time of the previous government in order to reduce this problem. I agree that it's not enough that we wouldn't be in this situation today, but it is. The Pahor's government, in cooperation with the outgoing Janša government, has adopted a law under which the state guarantees the roles of our citizens up to EUR 100,000. This was an important signal from this country that we stand behind our banks to stand for the deposits that our citizens have in these banks. This prevented a major systemic crisis at the time. In the situation where foreign banks in particular took EUR 3 billion out of the country, the Republic of Slovenia, at the same time with a successful bond placement, compensated this loss, which is the amount of EUR 3 billion deposits, as they were then invested in Slovenian banks, to ensure liquidity of the banking system. Today, too, any intimidation of citizens and citizens and the presentation of the situation in Slovenian banks is worse than it is unnecessary and harmful. I hope that all of us have already received our lesson because of inappropriate statements in this area this year. Nevertheless, I must conclude that the text of Article 3 or the amendments, which fully corrects the text of the law, is one paradox. The second paragraph of the coalition amendment states that "the objectives of the establishment of a bank debt management company are to implement measures under this law in a way that ensures the economic use of public funds" and so on. I note that this text is contrary to the concept of the whole law because the most economical form of problem recovery is not chosen. I'd like to remind you again of what we talked about last Friday. At the start of the crisis, the United States of America decided on a similar concept. Their programme was then called the Troubled Asset Relief Program, for which they committed $750 billion and where the concept was the same: transfer of bad claims to specific institutions and then management of these bad investments. This process is technically extremely complicated. When they made 5,000 valuations, they found that the matter made no sense and decided on a different route — recapitalisation. What is our real problem when we advocate recapitalisation? To successfully repeat this mantra, "the state has already invested so much and so much money in the banks and so far there has been no effect". Together, we find that the banks have been mismanaged. Now, Your Honor, are we ready to change that? I have it in my own office at the New Ljubljana Bank, set up by your government's political coalition, full of trust. I believe that this administration and the supervisory board of the two banks will try to do the most to ensure that the banks are properly cleaned and that they start doing what they need to do with state assets: responsible and in the interest of the highest possible yields and the release of credit to the economy, because without this economic growth there will be no growth. You've set up the supervisory boards of both banks, you've continued the management of both banks. Your Honor, there are no more excuses! There are no more excuses because we can no longer buy that you knew nothing about what is going on 2004-2008, because members of your party, members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, led the supervisory boards of both the largest state banks you are criminalising here today. Yes! The situation in these banks is problematic, but it's a viable situation! And do not display private ownership as an all-powerful one that solves all problems, because that is simply not true. Even a country as owner can solve this problem in a normal way. And that's the way to recapitalize. Of course, this only makes sense if we improve governance and immediately stop the practice of political interference in something that is a matter of banks, which is a matter of business decisions which, of course, must be responsible and in the interests of the owner of this country. I recommend that we go this way because this represents the economic use of public funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u133	Thank you very much. We are discussing the amendment of the coalition to Article 3. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Yes, I'm opening the application. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u134	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members of Parliament and distinguished Minister! I have a question for the Minister. Minister, we have read your past statements, where you were not an advocate of a bad bank, now the coalition is referring to your opinions. I wonder: What was the reason you changed your mind? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u135	Thank you very much for your question. The Minister may be involved at any time. Otherwise, it's Mr. Janko Weber's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. In the context of the debate around Article 3, I would like to provide a real explanation of why the previous government has not done more in this area. Look, for a simple reason. The government of Janez Janša in the 2004-2008 mandate boasted so much, and you are still saying today that this was such a huge economic growth and that this was something miraculous that happened at the time. I have to admit, we believed you. There was no reason for us to have a bad opinion as to why the banks were in debt, why the economy was in debt. We trusted you. For the fact is, the gross external debt increased enormously from 2004 to 2008. Every year, the banks accounted for 27%; therefore, in four years, from 15 billion to 39 billion they owed banks in this mandate, which you claimed was famous and truly unique to Slovenia, to the Slovenian economy, to the bank, to everyone. The fact is, then, within a year, a year and a half, we found that all this economic growth was actually a farce and was based on debt. At that time, banks and the economy were in debt; from 15 billion to 39 billion, that is 24 billion, companies, banks and residents were in debt. But we simply could not believe that there was such a policy at the time that we could be in charge of loans or for a purpose that would be irreparable for the development of the economy or would be harmful for the development of the economy and would not return to banks. The fact is that most of the funds were then allocated to Taiwan's credits, to speculative corporate acquisitions and then to the depletion of businesses, and then a large proportion of these 20 billion was raised abroad. At first, we wanted to save public debt as such. Banks have also been rehabilitated and recapitalized in the meantime, but at a low level. Instead of 300 million, we should actually recapitalise banks amounting to one billion and this problem would probably be significantly smaller or not at all. However, if banks recapitalised at the level you suggest this instant, 4 billion, this would be the level that would reach some Dutch, German and other developed countries. Indeed, we have recapitalised everything with 1% of GDP. Why did they decide in Germany to recapitalise their state banks at 5% of GDP? So, five times more than in Slovenia have invested in their state banks. The Netherlands invested 7% of GDP in recapitalisation of its state banks. In Slovenia, however, we talk about the fact that 1% was too much, and I hear how bad it is to put any euro in our state bank is wrong. Please! Why other developed countries need their national banks, only Slovenia!? Let us answer this question why we have such a goal. I ask the Minister: Is the government's goal to maintain state-owned banks? Is that the goal? It is not written in this law, so I ask whether the aim is to keep banks in Slovenian ownership. That's a key question. If that is not our goal, then I understand why the representatives of the Belgian bank are in administration, because they are also qualified to make the sale of the Ljubljana Bank and this law will actually clear all claims and then sell the Ljubljana Bank with pleasure. And once again, whoever buys the New Ljubljana Bank will receive this expense after five years and then will be happy to draw on all our deposits that we have there and live happily ever after, and we as a country will be without an important instrument that allows us to develop normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The Minister has spoken to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u138	First of all, a nice greeting for all, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Vice-President! Unfortunately, I cannot be with you all the time today, because we also have an important government meeting tomorrow, which needs to be completed by the end of the day, and a bunch of meetings that we have been adjourning all the time due to discussions in the National Assembly, as well as some absences we are planning in the coming week, officially, so everything is not going easily. Let me try to answer some of the questions you asked. The first question or first comment I would like to make on this issue is: agencies or companies. However, the decision to be an agency has never been made. It was said, for a while, the word agency was used, always with the reservation that it had not yet been decided. Why the company? Because this is the simplest form, the most flexible form, and also because of what this society will do. This company will sell off these claims and cash out these insurancees. It's normal economic activity. In the part where this means the execution of certain public tasks, and this is the essence of this company when it comes to the decision on how these claims are transferred, how much, on the basis of any restructuring programme of banks that will help them, because it will be up to some bank to help themselves or not through the restructuring programme, will not, of course, take this decision alone, nor will its executive board. This decision will be drawn up by the Commission, in which the representatives of the Government and Banka Slovenije will be represented, and will eventually be decided by the Government. As far as the content of the work itself is concerned, the work that actually means helping banks is what I think the responsibilities must be. As far as transparency is concerned. The law, supplemented by amendments, states that the members of the Executive Board are liable to register assets, as well as officials, so that they can be checked by the Anti-Corruption Commission, and states that once a year the company's business is audited by the Court of Auditors. Thus, these matters are in the law or in the bill or in the amendments. As far as I'm concerned, my position on the bad bank is concerned. This is a discussion that is about as old as the financial crisis. Back then, at the beginning of the financial crisis, the idea of a bad bank came up and, above all, there was a debate about whether or not we would go into it. Models were offered or modelled from other countries, such as Sweden, where they performed similar operations, or had separate bad banks for individual banks, but with state guarantees. So it's a similar model as is now proposed here. It was then that private banks were first maintained, and then the sale and rehabilitation of these banks was ensured by the recovery of these funds. My arguments at the time were, above all, that it was very difficult to maintain a state bank; it is said that the banks that were in trouble with us were mainly state banks are still mainly state banks. This situation has not changed, and I thought it was a suitable punishment for the owner at the time, if we conclude by analogy, if private banks have been supported at some point by private owners, because private owners led them by being in crisis, then state owners should now be punished by taking their property away from them. Approximately that was the case at the time. The second thing that was very important was that there was no assurance in these discussions that there would be no additional support for state banks in ideas. We have also heard such proposals today that private owners should be excluded, and then there are no guarantees that these funds will be reimbursed. These guarantees are in this law. This company will have to repay its assets, according to the law, part of these operations will have to reimburse, costs, including by reselling state shares on the basis of the strategy. The government has adopted a sectoral strategy setting targets of 25% for these two banks. We haven't changed that in this period. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] National Assembly on the basis of a strategy to be proposed. [[...]] These are the key things I wanted to explain about this. If there's another question, I can answer it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I suppose there's still a desire for a debate, I see more hands, so I'm opening applications. Please report to the debate! Mr. Joseph Jerovšek and Mr. Janko Weber. We're still-- something's wrong, mag. Thirsty? Everything all right? Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u140	Thank you very much. We have quite a bit of time to discuss this, and I am listening to colleagues from social democracy at this time, but I am increasingly less confident that I can follow their intentions. In fact, formerly, colleague Bevk reported that, together with the President of Parliament in the Czech Republic, he was visiting the Czech Republic and that they had a healthy situation with regard to lending banks, that the banks were not owned by them, but that the Czech economy was flourishing. Mr Meh explained earlier that if a company or a bank buys a foreigner and then privatises it and cancels jobs, it is bad. Of course it's bad! The only problem is that a whole bunch of directors who are your clients, Pavček, Kordez, Zidar, and I don't know which, owned and destroyed the company. And it is also a sin, even worse, because part of that money mentioned by Mr Weber, 20 billion, is likely to have gone from these companies to safe tax havens. Then, my colleague Weber asked in his last performance whether the goal was to keep the banks state-owned. Of course, here you probably will not get this answer explicitly, we will not get it; the goal is that we have operational banks that will service our economy, we do not have this right now. For once again this is on the line when we had in the 1990s when the former President, Mr Kučan, and the uncle who has now disassociated you, Mr Stanovnik, said that it was a national interest, what everything must remain in state ownership, but now we are out of this effort. Theirs and yours have now gone to Mr. Jankovic. You mentioned earlier that Mr Golobič is now an ideologist of this option, so he is also leading the campaign of the President of the Republic of Türk, so that this information is probably correct, and this is now an extremely bad option that citizens are trying to paint again for another 10 years. Now, if you want to have sound banks, or if you want to have state banks that you will empty through your staff again after they recover. It's been technology for the last 20 years, and don't make any sense that others are guilty. This left option is guilty and this option, this clientele, has 20 billion money in Cyprus and elsewhere. And he won't give it back! How do you take this option? Return to our state vaults – not you, your customers return this money – and we will be a normal country. It is only a prerequisite that, during this debate, you do not deceive us into electing the right president, such as Mr Beast, who has nothing to do with this, that there is no mortgage in the past, and that we will be a normal country again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u141	Mr. Janko Weber. I don't see the reason for the replica, please sign in in the next round, and you'll have a chance to discuss it. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. Unquestionably, the Social Democrats defend the position that we need state banks. We unquestionably argue that even if they are sold in some proportion, they should not be sold at a low price, but with a clearly defined objective. And I would like to stress once again if we, in the National Assembly in this mandate, went to the management of property in a way that we would really first adopt here, in the National Assembly, a strategy for the management of property owned by the Republic of Slovenia, which includes banks as well as all energy companies, infrastructure companies, telecommunications and so on, then this would be a truly constructive debate, because it would be written in the strategy that up to this percentage could be sold by this economic company or by the bank and the rest of it would be owned by the state. But we don't have that. We are now convincing each other whether it is better to have an agency under the control of the Court of Auditors, whether it is better to have an enterprise to which, say, 12 billion will be transferred and will never again be owned by the state. This blindness is so drastic that we simply cannot support these solutions. And if you'll allow me, even for these purposes. Poor claims that have arisen are also those that are very poor or not insured at all. One of the worst claims is essentially the claim of Zvon holding company, which amounts to one billion. So it is the operation of the Church in Slovenia, which has created one billion damage within the banking system of the Republic of Slovenia. And Mr Minister, this company for the management of bad claims will be operational until 2017. What if, by 2017, these claims will not be paid by sale, as you predicted? What after 2017 with claims that cannot be sold because they are not secured? The church has no claim secured. She directly intervened in the poor banking position of our state banks. If these claims are not resolved by 2017, it means that with those 4 billion that we are giving, we will also recover the Church debts. In fact, after 2017, what will not be resolved will remain a debt or write-off. So, we're going to write off one billion to the Church because it doesn't have this claim secured, and we're going to cover it with tax money. Is this one of the goals of this law or not? Once again: What will happen to these claims that will not be resolved by 2017? We claim that there will be a write-off, and when there is a write-off, in our opinion, in this case the Church is also burdened with whatever obligations it would otherwise have. So that these objectives of this law are not really clearly defined, but we can show from the known data the direction where that objective is and why we are adopting such a law establishing a company to manage the bad claims of banks. These are key issues that we should have very carefully explained if we could decide on this law. But we do not get the answers to these questions and it is not good for the National Assembly to adopt a law today that will completely distance the National Assembly from deciding what is going to happen and the society under the control of the Government will decide which bad claim we will define as a bad claim, which we will not solve, but the fact is that some of the claims and the one that I have stated are completely unprotected, this will go to our shoulders. Is that the goal?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u143	I'll give my word to the Minister first because he asked for his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u144	This logic that you can cash in those claims that are insured, I hear it for the first time. But let's just leave it. You're going to have to think about that with yourself, how it really works. But, see, the law is not written to help the church and to write off claims. As I have explained many times before, claims will have to be transferred according to an assessment of what can be recovered for them and collateral based on this same assessment. This assessment must be confirmed by the European Commission. The methodology for doing this must be confirmed there. If you think that the European Commission will save the Slovenian Church, then you have high hopes that will probably not be heard. Another thing is what will happen to what will remain of this society if these claims are not cashed, if there are any claims left, if there are any assets left, like insurance. It is very clear that it is transferred to the legal successor of the Sod, which will be the Slovenian State holding company if the law is enforced. If there's anything left. However, it is so written in the law that there should not be much left and that these matters are actually cashed out in five years. What will happen to the private owners of the banks? The law is very clear about the need to pay the commission for these guarantees and for this resolution. By selling banks today, they could be sold at a price that would contain an estimate that would be lower for the estimated capital hole in these banks. If we clear this capital hole, then we can sell the banks at a higher price. The law also goes in this direction that when we sell State shares in banks, then the purpose is to reimburse the costs of financing this bank debt clearing operation, which means that it is already heading towards what is approximately necessary for this to happen. Now, is our goal to have a state bank? We have adopted a decree in the National Assembly that refers to a sectoral strategy where the target share is 25% plus one share. As I said, this can be changed by the National Assembly or not when it decides on the classification under the Slovenian State Holding Act, or if this law is not enforced, the strategy under the Capital Investment Management Act, which I think will now be the AUKN, if necessary, finally succeed and be able to prepare. The next thing I would like to mention to you is important, the situation in the banking system today is also significantly different than it was three, four years ago, and I think it is significantly different than we all knew six months ago. Let me repeat this once again, when we took over the mandate in February, we were reminded of the problem of the New Ljubljana Bank. We have been warned that it has been somehow trying to resolve this for six months now because the Bank of Slovenia has made some demands on the basis of the requirements of the European Banking Authority or the European Banking Authority. Now, there was not much to be done, except that 130 million were reserved somewhere in Kadu and Sod, which may require recapitalisation for a third. We've dealt with this problem intensively for a few months, as you know. We have tried, on the basis of the expressed preliminary interest, to ensure the cooperation of private owners. This failed for reasons we have already explained. At the same time, new results of the operations of the Maribor Credit Bank showed the need for recapitalisation. Every four-year account shows additional needs. There's another bank with serious problems. It turned out that the problem was systemic and much bigger than anyone told us six months ago and as anyone, except perhaps direct regulators, knew. We therefore propose, as I said, an intervention solution that suddenly tries to solve this problem, to address it in its entirety, not gradually, not with partial recapitalisations and so that we believe that the effects of this will be the fastest. Total cost, that's what I'd like to say, but it's about the same at the end of what's net left on the table after you cash the claims. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] which is a lack of capital in banks due to these weaknesses. [[...]] And it doesn't matter if you recapitalize the bank for that hole or if you end up with a hole like that. The effect is ultimately the same, only in this case [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u145	Good. Just to remind you, we are at Article 3 of the amendment to Article 3 and you want to have a discussion. Here you go. Just a minute. The time to report is running. Three panellists have been reported. First it's mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u146	Vice President, thank you so much for saying this. Say hello to everyone again! Today's debate shows how wrong it is that one part of the Members is not present in this Chamber, because arrows fly and cannot bounce. And we're not the one who's gonna say no. There's only one thing I have to say. When it was said to be a clientele, it was seen as an empty page. It was theirs. I personally do not actually believe that the Slovenian church with its economic story, which made a hole in the Slovenian banking system was a billion euro, their clientele. I personally do not believe that their customers were from 2004 to 2008, when the most money was spent on Taiwanese acquisitions in Slovenia, and as far as I know, their client was not in control of the Slovenian state at the time, or at least the government was not in charge as far as I know. I'd like to ask you a question, Mr. Secretary. Don't run away from me, please. I won't talk about the church or if you want to answer. Whether the church was their clientele or their clientele – I don't know, maybe someone will teach me. Will this number be a billion holes in the banking system you're talking about? These are numbers from publicly available, from the media in fact. But you, Mr Minister, are actually bound to this article as well as to the model you have chosen and now the coalition is following you – and I ask you why you should believe your words more than Velimir Bolet, who said some things. One of these things is, I will read very slowly, out loud and as distinctly as possible, in Slovenian, "that only technical problems would be great," talks about a bad bank, "administrative procedures would take inappropriately longer than direct recapitalisation." Of course, it is said that we all know that the credit spasm that is present is a state that is currently pushing Slovenia wherever we do not want to go. We all want to help, we all want the effect to be immediate. Mr Bole, who, as far as I know, is the authority of most Slovenian experts in this area, argues that the way you chose is significantly slower, and you claim it is the most effective. Please explain to me why Mr. Bole was wrong this time. But the other question is, Mr. Secretary. We are constantly discussing how market value will be determined, even some fair value of claims that will be transferred or purchased by the State. In 2009, you yourself wrote that if there was a market value, then the state should not interfere, but that where there is a market value, the one offering a market value should also redeem at that value. It's not like he's pushing the country into some financial operation that he's having a hard time getting money for. As far as I am aware of what my colleagues have said and as far as I have been able to read the expert articles, even the Americans did not really know how to do this because the assessment of the value of the bad claims is so complicated and is repeatedly unfair that they have given up on it. What model will you use? I can't find any of this anywhere in the materials that are available to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u147	Will you answer right away, Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u148	Look, first of all, about the clientele. I would say that we had to go to someone's bedside table because as many journalistic questions as I got today, whether I was with someone at lunch by accident, whether someone was lobbying at my place, or my secretary of state, or who would pay me, I wouldn't know how much money, I'd get rid of who and whom, etc., and I haven't gotten that many since I was secretary. Just today, look. Isn't that strange? Yeah, sure, sure. And we're adopting a law that says we need to find responsibility for these four billion where they went. And we adopt this law after three, four years, the regulators who are responsible were unable to determine the responsibilities or ensure the recapitalisation of these banks. Now, if we go to Mr. Magi. Pain. I would say first that I am somewhat disturbed by this debate, that I am here who propose something, but on the other hand there are some experts. I didn't fall from the moon where I'm sitting now, you probably know that, so you can quote some of my articles from before. My secretary of state didn't fall out of the moon either, because he's sitting down now, but he's fallen out of Frankfurt, which, look, in terms of quality of life, is quite a fall. What was he doing in Frankfurt? [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, well, look, it's worse. What was he doing there? He was doing exactly what we're proposing here. Technically, they're not that complicated, and a lot of the countries in the world have already done it. Above all, once again, recapitalisation is not the same as what we do. If you recapitalise the bank, the bank still has to do everything it can to clear the bank's claims. Look, the bank, yeah, but I'm gonna put money in there, the taxpayer, 500 million, a billion, and then I'm gonna try to influence what they're gonna do with this money, and we're gonna get all these 230 questions back in all those same newspapers, or I'm gonna be able to answer that to anybody, and I'm gonna take care of Klemenczyk for that kind of thing. And that sucks. Where we have also recapitalised ourselves, we have not done so in Slovenia, and this is one of the problems. Where the State has recapitalised banks elsewhere, it has given them very clear conditions as to what they must do with this money and has also ensured how this money is managed there. Not through some supervisory boards or through some normal forms of corporate conduct, because obviously you can't provide this through normal forms of corporate conduct, but when you give money and guarantees, you also have extraordinary measures available. One of the reasons why the NCBs did not recapitalise the New Ljubljana Bank is that, after all, the measures they received when they received State aid. So why don't I agree with Mr. Bolette? Yeah, because I don't think it's a question, and now let's put it there, yeah, we can recapitalize in one day. I think we're 30. 6. We have shown that we are able to recapitalise the bank in one day when this is really necessary. And if it's ever really necessary to recapitalise a bank overnight to keep the Slovenian financial system stable, we will. You can trust me on this. But we didn't solve any problems with that. If we had saved him, we wouldn't have this debate today, we wouldn't have a bad claims report here and so on, it's simple, but you haven't done anything about it yet. But technically, you have to ensure the same procedures. How this is done, Mr Juden, there are also very clear methodologies in this regard. Laws aren't the kind of thing I write methodologies for. I already said once or twice or three times that we used these methodologies when we were setting the price at which NLB recapitalised. This can be done and it is very clear, these methods exist. We refer to the rule of the European Commission. Even here in law and in explanation, I think these matters are also very clear. But we can also come to you once and for all to explain this to you if you want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u149	Thank you so much for explaining. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. Minister, I just want to clarify once again that it makes no sense for me to discuss with myself how these procedures are going to proceed. I want to discuss this with you because there is really no explanation in the law as to how this rehabilitation is to take place, what is going to happen to these claims. I'm afraid that's not in the marriage. I really want to clean this stuff up with government representatives. This is also for Parliament. That is why the Government is responsible to Parliament, not the other way around. However, with regard to responsibility, I would like to recall that if you accept this, the responsibility will be with the National Assembly, not with the Government. The National Assembly will be the one responsible for making a bad decision. And this saying that the government will bear responsibility — far from it. We've never seen this before, and we won't. It always ends: The National Assembly has made a decision. However, I am pleased with what the Minister has said to me, and this has been crystal clear to me all the time what will happen with the bad investments in this company to manage bank claims that will not be recovered until 2017. Finally, I received an answer that the period of this claim came to Slovenia's state holding company, i.e. to an institution that you or you are trying to legalise by law. This is important information. Indeed, if we look at what is happening with these holding companies, I can point out once again, in Austria, the state holding company has created 35 billion euros in losses from 1946 to 1995. In Italy, in the mid-1970s to 1992, he created 58.2 billion losses. So, we didn't save anything. We've solved enough to relieve banks of bad claims. And those who have caused these bad claims will, of course, not bear any responsibility, I am sure, but this claim will obviously remain at the holding company. If we go back to holding, what kind of resources does he have? The only important resource is energy, which generates around half a billion euros a year of resources that can be invested in development. The fact is that part of these funds will obviously then go back to paying off these bad claims, not to development. These things that you offer us through Slovenian state holding company and through the company to manage bad bank claims, we simply cannot support because they do not bring solutions for Slovenia, do not bring solutions for Slovenia, do not bring solutions for the vast majority of people in Slovenia, but only bring solutions for those who want to enrich their capital that they have abroad. Definitely. There is no other desire to adopt this law in the background. And that's what we're worried about. We therefore point out these things, and we really hope that there will be no decision to adopt this law, and that we will take serious consideration of all capital investments in Slovenia or the capital investment management strategy in Slovenia, first of all, let us agree on how we will manage this or determine in Parliament what is of national importance to us, which can then also mean the subject of selling and acquiring new markets, new capital, not the exhaustion of Slovenian companies. These are, I think, topics that we really need to talk about right now in a much more serious and responsible way, but not so flatly, when the Minister considers that what the Government is proposing right now is the only right. What will happen, no one has written in any explanation, and therefore no responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u151	Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, what we are discussing in this afternoon’s work is more or less a repetition. We've heard these stories before. If we continue with Mr Webra's story about the Austrian holding company, this holding was then sold, privatised, and today he has a profit. This has already been said in one of the holding discussions. I just actually remembered this data, and today all these people are working with profit, and at the first moment they weren't working with profit. The other thing is that here, and now I have to say, because we've been talking about this for so long, it's deliberately and seriously misleading what's going to happen, and if you want, with Bell 1 or Bell 2. Among other things, it was said that the church had no secured claims. The banks have caused claims, etc., Mr Weber and all those who have not yet represented this law and this operation of the law, the fact is that banks have unsecured claims that it is not the church that has unprotected claims in this context. Banks have unsecured claims. I'm quoting you here, what you're saying, and then you're taking a story that's going in the wrong direction. For these claims, which are in one way or another insured or uninsured, this company will issue State guarantee bonds and assess them. These sovereign bonds will not be obtained by the bank at the level of the book value, but, to the extent that this valuation represents this value. Here is the complete deception about how it will also happen, then it will continue to happen. If some of the bank's bad claims are completely unsecured, the bank will not receive any bonds. This is now the case and here's your story about Bell 1 and Bell 2 and if you want, any other financial holding company will fall at the beginning. It's falling from the beginning. That's why we're talking about evaluation. Even when we talk about what has been said today, how state property is all-powerful and will solve all these problems. Look, historical developments in recent centuries have not confirmed this. Historic development has simply rejected the most effective state property and we have opted for a market economy. In most cases, the market economy is based on private property. That's the world's way, if you want, of development. But there are also some countries where we have predominantly state property, we also have state capitalism and so on, and there is the biggest violation of human rights, in my personal opinion, and for the least social states, these are state property. I really don't see any need today, but I have to answer that we're going to a clean starting point, what's more effective and what's not. The fact that we are for the market economy has been decided 20 years ago. If we are talking about the period, I am responsible here 2004-2008 and the gross external debt, yes, that is when the banks were most indebted. Who's the one controlling the banks? Who's the bank regulator? I don't think it's the government. I think that we know so much about this in the National Assembly that Banka Slovenije is the one that also controls the lending of Slovenian banks by other banks, including how much Banka Slovenije can determine what kind of credit portfolio a bank may have or can plan according to capital requirements. The government of John Janša also assumes its share of responsibility. I do not want to talk now about the government 2008-2011, but what has happened to the government's debt and state deficit. There is no problem, there is no problem with accountability. But the problem is that then there's so much less talk about it and then you just don't understand things – that there's bonds here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u153	Thank you very much. We are opening another round for discussion by Article 3. Please sign up. Three reported, first mag. Thirsty. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u154	Madam President, I believe you understand why we speak so much. The problem of today's debate is that we're talking about such very large numbers, billions that they've actually become unimaginable again, so sometimes it looks like we're talking about things that don't matter and that we have to run right past us. However, I would like to point out to you all, in essence, that we have also discussed in this article, if we want to have the most effective solution, why the Minister thinks that this is a solution that is different from what Velimir Bole represents in his writings. So why do he think we can solve a credit crunch faster by setting up a bad bank, while other experts say it's a slower way, a harder way and a hard way to make? I didn't get the answer, Madam President. No one has said today that if this law were to be adopted and, by chance, what would be harmful for Slovenia would be the time when an ordinary entrepreneur in this country could expect to have the same situation as Austria has in Austria, Germany in Germany, because the size of the intervention, but let us not forget all together, but 4 billion represents the magnitude of the intervention Germany has committed to the rehabilitation of its banks in the last years of the 11 % of GDP crisis. 4 billion is slightly more than 11% of Slovenian GDP and I am interested in the forecast of the ministry, what effect will it have and what time will it have? I expect that something more will be said about the forecasts in this law if we enter into force in the Slovenian space, what is essentially the enforcement of this law also then on economic growth, on the activity of banks and so on, that is all the things you keep saying today that we cannot say anything because the claims today are so different, tomorrow, but we are talking about four billion. Madam President, I am actually asking you to explain how quickly this law will take effect if you adopt it, both from a microeconomic point of view, from a common craftsman's point of view? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u155	Thank you for your initiative. As you know the rules of procedure, the proposer shall at any time have the opportunity to participate. I expect him to answer these questions, too. The minister was also quite extensive in his responses. Now let's move on. Mr. Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u156	Perhaps Mr. Shirtzl would like to keep Mr. Shirtzl in the hall for a while. Debate about the question, politics from the economy or not. Absolutely, politics must absolutely leave the economy alone. Except for those issues which are of course regulatory in nature. But you know, we're different on this issue, because after we said no to the new Capital Investment Management Act, there's no more meddling around the economy. You're bringing politics back to the big door now. The Slovenian state holding company is made up of a delegation principle, which will result in economic companies as well. This institution is the political institution I am talking about today. And that's the problem. What we should agree on is this: politics has no entry into the economy, and the country can, where it makes sense, of course, remain owner because of the nation's strategic objectives. We should have this debate. And by the way, Mr Šircelj, we were not brought into this crisis on a global scale by the state and not by the state of the bank, we were led by speculations from private banks, especially investment banks. And since 2008, there has been a re-emerging trend in the world of state ownership in important economic sectors. And it is not a question, whether the owner country or not, the question is how will we empower the country to manage this property in a smart way, in the interest of as much revenue as possible for state finances, in the interest of the satisfaction of the employees and in the interest of those objectives for which we decide as a nation, yes, this bank, this power plant, we will keep this infrastructure owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Do not understand that we are opposed to this law because we see in it the Bible of neoliberalism. Of course, we see fears in one broad range of scenarios that your government has already made, namely, the intimidation of people, the reduction of domestic consumption, the reduction of expectations that we will all eventually adopt the absolute scenarios that the Government is giving us, including the sale of state property. No, that's not the point. I firmly believe that this law is difficult to implement and that it is more expensive than other alternative solutions. This law is so difficult to enforce that even the basic provisions of the implementation of this law have not been written into this law because you do not know it, but you have taken the time to save things under the law. The fundamentals are not cleared when we talk about this law. And, gentlemen, that's the problem. That's the problem. You expect us to trust you, and, of course, by your own political conduct, you do not contribute in any way to creating a normal climate of trust in this Chamber. That's the problem. I want unity in Slovenian politics, but unity based on some rational arguments, let's look at what alternatives are, and let's please calculate that. Since it is not a matter of feeling, it is not a feeling of how we will deal with four billion euro of state money, which tomorrow can become a state bond, which can be repaid. This is what this debate is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u157	Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u158	Thank you. I have no doubts about the market economy. I think it's a tested option all over the world, and it works. What we have to prevent from happening in the National Assembly is that the market economy is not being misused to exhaust state assets. That's corruption. I very much want the market economy in Slovenia to work in a way that really would have a lot of billionaires, but not on my account, not at the expense of the state. And today we are talking about some at the expense of the state becoming important managers who are supposed to be operating something in the market economy. We note, however, that they have actually misused our assets to promote themselves in an environment that is supposed to be considered a market economy as an important environment and to share some experience in this area. So, Mr Shircelj, this is really about how we will prevent this from occurring. And look, you rule out the control of the National Assembly, you rule out this organization of control through the Court of Auditors. Why? For what purpose? So that these procedures can be concealed. However, the sale of Slovenian companies, both those with bad claims and good ones, will take place. Everything. And look where it says in this law, Mr. Shircelj, that unsecured bad claims, and no matter whose they are, will not come to the Company for the Management of Bad Bank Claims. Where does this law state that unsecured bad claims will not come to the Company for the Management of Bad Bank Claims? Nowhere. Nowhere. So those unsecured claims will also come into this society. But if they don't pass, then I really don't see the point of this law. If unsecured claims remain on banks, then I don't know why anyone who is insured should stay. Much easier. What's this all about? In fact, there are no basic criteria cleared in this law. When you talk about Banka Slovenije, look, Banka Slovenije has the legal authority, according to our legal order, as regulator, to monitor the operation of banks and to decide what we have heard today by the Secretary of State about what is a bad claim. But you're taking this to the Bank of Slovenia. You take this responsibility and say, the policy will be the one that will make this determination more successful, but this is contrary to the legal order. Banka Slovenije has its powers determined by our constitution, according to the Banking Act, in short, you take something that is the original jurisdiction of Banka Slovenije and all national banks in all other countries. And all we are saying is that if banks have caused bad claims, then banks also have to take responsibility to resolve these bad claims. We can help them in this way to ensure adequate capital to help the healthy economy move forward. But we must ask them to solve the problems they have caused themselves. And that's the whole story. But if the interest of this law is the sale of Slovenian banks, then it is a wrong decision, which will actually have very harmful consequences for our generation and for future generations.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u159	Can I take it on a procedural basis? Here you go. A replica? Procedural. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues! The discussions that have taken place in the National Assembly since 11 a.m. do not, in fact, bring any added value in these last three hours. It's just about rolling the same stories, the same things. The former President of the Government, who has now fled the Assembly Hall, does not report to the debate on banks, but he could tell a lot of truths about why the previous government has not acted, including all these doubts, he could say a lot of things to the uncle, but obviously this is not an interest. I therefore propose that, on the basis of Article 67, paragraph 5, we vote that the speaker can only discuss this issue once on the agenda. Thank you very much. I suggest you put the motion to a vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u161	Okay. First, we put a procedural motion to the vote and we will vote on the procedural proposal submitted by Mr Tanko, then you will be given the floor. Let's go to the vote. There is no explanation for the vote in procedural proposals. Can I have your attention again? We're starting the vote. 39 Members and Members voted against this proposal. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 5.]] The proposal was put to the vote. If we repeat this, every speaker can only discuss the same issue once. Mr. Han, you have a procedure now.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u162	Thank you very much. I will have a similar proposal as Mr Jože Tanko, by asking the current Prime Minister of the Government to come to the Chamber and he will explain to us not what has happened now, but what will happen next. So I would ask if you, the chairman, put to the vote that the Assembly or you, as chairman, invite Prime Minister Janez Janša to come to the Chamber and in some way explain to us what happened, not what happened, but what will happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u163	Thank you very much for your proposal. Once again, I remind you that government representatives are present in the National Assembly, they can provide an explanation. But you have demanded, and you have a very special wish, and I respect your proposal and put it to the vote. So attention, time to vote is running out. Against this proposal, Mr Han, there were 42 Members and Members, 7 of whom were not accepted. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 42.]] We continue the debate. Give me a moment to clear up who's next. Mr. Weber, I am reminded that you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. In view of the decision voted where you are restricting the debate to the opposition, I demand a half break for consultation in our parliamentary group, because of course we do not agree with such a coalition operation and we are actually indignant. Look, five, six of us are here, seven of us, and we're paralyzing 50, 60 here. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, even 10 of us would be easy, but look, you're afraid of the debate of five, six Members and you have no arguments and therefore you're restricting the debate. Therefore, Madam President, I ask you to take this procedural proposal into account and order a half break for consultation in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u165	What advice, Mr. Weber, if I may ask you, is that it? In principle, the Rules of Procedure allow for suspension before a decision is taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u166	That's right. The decision in the National Assembly was taken to limit us to the debate. Unfortunately, we were not able to explain our views before this proposal came to light. We would like to discuss how we will deal with this agenda item at this meeting. So it's a matter of advice as to how we're going to deal with decisions about amendments and this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u167	Good. In view of why you are asking for a suspension in order to consult when the decision is up to date, I ask you to reconsider this procedural proposal once the matter has come so far as we will actually make a decision. For the moment, we would like to continue the debate. Would you like another procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u168	If you do not want to take ours into account, I must say the correct proposal to consult on how to actually move forward, then I propose that you allow us half an hour to consult in the parliamentary group to agree on who will be the one to discuss the subject, because only one and once can discuss the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u169	You can help me, Mr Weber, and refer to the Rule of the Rules of Procedure for which you have made this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u170	President, can you tell me where in the Rules of Procedure there is a limit to not being able to consult, who will be the bearer of the individual subject, because you have limited us in the debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u171	Look, you can all discuss any amendment, all of you from the parliamentary group. No one has been denied this option. This is said to be an arrangement that is not really necessary here. Therefore, once again, we continue the debate and everyone has the opportunity to apply, from all the groups of Members. This decision, which we have just adopted, also applies from now on. And once again, I give you the opportunity to apply for the debate on Article 3 and the amendment to Article 3. One more procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u172	I just want to state procedurally once again that the coalition has obviously overstepped the decision of the President of the National Assembly. The President of the National Assembly has ensured that this agenda item will allow for an unlimited debate on this agenda item. So it's a manifest and eccentric violation or, I'd say, ignorance of the decision of the President of the National Assembly. He made it clear that there will be no restrictions on the debate. Clearly, you have made up your mind, and you have also caused the President of the National Assembly, and I think it's a very difficult situation when you simply voted his announcement and, to put it into words, you've turned on this. This is also the last procedural proposal. I don't intend to make any more calls at this point either. I don't know how the others are going to act, so I actually asked to consult with the Group of Members. It would be right for you to let us do this. The majority of you can decide everything, but the President and the President always have the task of giving priority in Parliament to the minority, not the majority. This one can make any decision at any time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Above all, I must stick to the Rules of Procedure, which is perfectly clear here. The National Assembly has decided as it has decided. We continue with the debate and are at Article 3 and the amendment to Article 3. I am reopening, I suppose there is still a desire for a debate, a time to report to the debate. Here you go. We've got two applications, Mr. Franz Puksic is the first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u174	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that, after 5 hours of infertile debate, it has finally been decided for each amendment to be discussed once, it seems correct to me, and given the strong wisdom of the current opposition, the former largest government party we have listened to in these 5 hours, one cannot believe that things can turn this way in the opposition in such a short time. In fact, if this powerful wisdom applied even when you were in power; a fellow Jew said that someone had put it in a bad government today. You were probably in a worse government because if you had this wisdom, you would probably have ruled for six years, not just three or eight years. Or perhaps we would not have come from 28 to the 8 or 9 Members you have today. However, around this amendment, I would say that it would not be necessary, and I would also support this government or coalition amendment, all of which would not have to be done if exactly what you were talking about – the borrowing of the private sector in the time of the Janša government. The private sector's indebtedness has been through whom? Over the banks. Mostly through these state banks that don't have secured loans today. Debt through these state banks took place, including Zvon 1 and Zvon 2. And since you are talking so much today, and the next amendment that we will discuss at the end of the week will be yours to give control to the Bank of Slovenia, not to the Government, that it is now a pure policy, I wonder what Bank of Slovenia has actually done or I ask myself nothing, I know that it has done nothing. However, if nothing else, the Bank of Slovenia should at least intervene and demand the guarantees to secure the credits that Zvon 1 and Zvon 2 rented, if, of course, because of the political bots – when Zoran Jankovic called the Ljubljana Bank, he himself explained in the media and said, listen to this and you will give so much and so many hundreds of millions – if the Bank of Slovenia has not already controlled it, why not at least not. And, of course, no one's ever answered for anything before. However, in your government's time, it was direct, and no one was responsible for it, from the budget, i.e. from the taxpayer's money, collected almost 7 billion euros in one way or another – direct debt. You will recall my debate at one of the budgetary debates when I was angry here that this debt would mean the continuation of tycoon credits, not just the continuation of the repayment of tycoon credits, which actually took place for a while. That is why our government has not received a report from Banka Slovenije or even more for more than six months, and then, of course, the state has also come to be in charge of the construction of these Cologne and, of course, the collapse of the entire investment, such as it is, and the disappearance of hundreds of millions of money. Other options, such as the adoption of this law and giving citizens hope that things will move in the right direction, are clear that we have no other. Of course, all these delusions about the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank and so on are, I'll say, some ordinary populism that you know is not, so will not. But in view of all that you have just mentioned, there has finally been sobriety in the National Assembly that we will also limit these debates. If the president of the National Assembly has disappointed you too, he's disappointed us. It was promised that this meeting would take place yesterday, and unfortunately it did not take place yesterday, but today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u175	First, Mr. Matjaž Han, unless you have procedural procedures. It's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u176	He mentioned me. I must tell Mr Puksic, if he makes a proposal for the discharge of the President of the State House, you have my vote because as badly as in this composition, Parliament has probably not experienced this. And here perhaps the opposition and the coalition could agree. Otherwise, the replica's on this. It was a bad government, a bad government. It's really up to the criteria. The former government has been such that whatever it has done, it has observed a small man, including his standard, and has worked in this context. This government is obviously working and looking at something else. What needs to be said is, the previous government has committed itself. She was also responsible for keeping the standard, even as it is in Slovenia, but so did all other governments. Look at Germany. Germany, which you may not know at this time, is paying 80 billion euros a year for pensions to maintain the standard of its people. That's information most people probably don't know. €80 billion is paid by Germany to maintain the standard of its people. In a time of crisis, which is interesting, as a percentage of GDP, Germany is in exactly the same debt as Slovenia, so we can say that the previous German government has observed what it is doing, and you are watching what it is saying, and that is bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u177	Mr. Matjaz Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u178	Thank you very much. When listening to France Pukšič, I sometimes wish that there were more trips in the National Assembly, that Members could travel because sometimes some would be greatly facilitated in obeying certain laws. Given that I have listened to Mr Shirtzlj, and thank God that SDS also has Mr Shirtzl, I am interested, Mr Shircelj, in your words, if I have understood you correctly that unsecured claims will not be able to transfer to this society for the management of bad banks. I don't think that's true, because the law also makes it clear that it's possible to pay off the bankruptcy, because if you thought it was, I probably made a mistake, then you wouldn't have to make a bad bank work. I would ask if you could not reply to the Secretary of State, because it seems to me that this is crucial that we be able to transfer the bad claims that have also arisen due to the insecurity and poor decisions of the economic operators to this bad bank. I think we're going to handle the unsecured claims in any case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u179	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Here you go, mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for the replica. I did not say that it would not be possible to bear unsecured claims on this society, but [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u181	Let me remind you, it's a replica. He was challenged. Here, finish the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u182	Thank you very much again for your word. When this claim is assessed, it can be estimated either by zero or one euro or two euros. And in this case, this company will issue a bond for one euro or for nothing or will not issue it at all and will not get anything for it at all. It will still be a claim, but it will actually be unsecured. This is because this company will revalue these claims, taking into account, of course, how much this loan has been given and what the collateral is. And if there's no insurance and if someone's in bankruptcy and they're not even on the market, then this claim is nothing. There is an empty loan and, of course, this will be borne by the previous bank when it comes to such loans. And now, if you don't want to follow the basic concept and talk, of course, about how it's going to be, I don't know, but the Church and so on, the one that has unsecured claims and so on. No, the secured claims have a bank, always, in this case. No, you said the Church had them, the Church could have them for someone else, but that's another question. So we can't go from this basic concept to another concept and then, of course, make different stories about how everything will be privatized and so on and so forth, because it's not easy. I am even afraid that there are very, very few buyers who, of course, would like to buy these claims and that there is very, very little demand for this. I'd rather be afraid of this than going back here for some new sale and so on and so forth. So of course all these words of yours can be big words, but they are without any content and without any basis, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u183	Can I get you a replica? Mr. Puksich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u184	My colleague Han, as far as Mr Pukšič's journey is concerned, don't worry, because I travel mainly by bicycle and on vacation. However, as regards the exercise of the office of President of the Commission for Slovenians in place and around the world, this is laid down in the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and also in the law. in a law that was also passed by your vote when I was the chairman of this commission for Slovenians in exchange and throughout the world and later also the secretary of state. It is true, however, that from this route of the Commission for Slovenians in place and around the world, this has been done by the whole circus, because it was caused by the Secretary-General, Mojca Prelesnik, who was voted against by you in the first term or in the previous term and I was against her, and also in this mandate you probably voted for her, and I also against and, of course, that is the consequence. Apparently, the secretary-general went to this committee for personal reasons, which, of course, talks about 25,000 euros, but it was 8 and several thousand euros or its services that they found a map of 4 000 700 euros, and I, by the way, found a map on the Internet in three minutes for 623 euros. So much so that you know who's responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u185	Thank you very much. We have come a little off the subject of article 3 of the law and of the amendment. Those who have not yet debated are invited to apply if they so wish. Here you go, Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u186	If, until this last debate of Mr Shirtzl, I still thought I understood, I do not understand any more. Intentional, if [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm talking about myself. I'm not talking about you. I'm talking about me! So, what I understand is my business. And I'm talking about myself. Now, if we're just talking about, say, Bell 1 or Bell 2 and we're talking about billions and 200 million from newspapers, that's saying, liabilities or claims and assets on the other side of one million, then I'd like to know what's being transferred to a bad bank. And if there's an unsecured portion of the bank's claims, then it's crystal clear to me that we're going to have to recapitalise the bank and that we're going to do a lot more, of course. Therefore, the basic question here today is: in what way, what we are going to endure, what we are going to do. And one more thing, ladies and gentlemen, today we have in banks whatever these banks are and whatever this management is, but management of these bad investments. Someone's dealing with these bad investments. We're going to do this bad bank to put all these bad investments into a bad bank and start looking for a new management that's going to have to manage everything that's going on here, because I don't know how else to imagine how we're going to do this last time. [[...]] So it's supposed to be those who get to know each other. That way, the state property that's going to be in a bad bank can't be managed. So it's nothing more than someone explaining that I'm going to understand why I'm going to raise my hand for or against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State wanted another word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u188	Thank you very much. There's something else I'd like to explain. First of all, I would like to say that the opinions are professional, but there are also opinions from bank administrations. For example, the CEO of the largest bank said a long time ago that the administration could no longer manage bad claims. There's too many of these in the banks. Thus, the assessment of bank administrations is that they are not sufficiently strong and do not have sufficient processes to resolve these claims within banks. This should also be seen in the light of the fact that the focus of administrations is on bad claims because they are a pressing problem, not on new loans, which is also the case with the administrations of other major banks. That's the first thing. Another time. Why would it be quicker if it's centralized outside the banks? If banks set up their own units to resolve inherited investments, and as we know, the largest investment in Slovenia is in loans to non-financial corporations that have been indicated, then each bank has its own department for the same investment, for the same claim. So, we're actually doubling. Thus, if more banks are needed, more people will work on the same claim, it is more expensive than if there is only one team working centrally on a bad claim. Another issue, as mentioned above, is that private banks, especially foreign banks, did these departments to resolve bad investments years ago, at the beginning of the crisis. The state banks are just setting up these departments. So they're here in a few years' time. And the question is, if they are allowed to continue to manage these investments, when will these departments actually be established. Next thing you know, they're in banks like that. Of course, such a solution within banks is adequately cost-effective if the staff exist. However, there are those in banks that are not dealing with the resolution of bad claims, but with lending to a good committee. So banks should also employ people themselves. In fact, if you follow the media, one of the major state banks has additionally hired some experts to deal with inherited investments because they have not found adequate professional support within their staff. The next thing is, let's say, if we look at that there's a lot of bad property claims tied or secured in large banks, many banks don't even have these real estate valuation departments. Thus, the bank itself is not qualified in some credible way to assess these properties, or banks have even resorted to external evaluators. In fact, banks have already authorised foreign valuers because they did not have their own staff. In another large bank, for example, this department counts four people, which is absolutely insufficient for a successful fight against bad claims. The next important thing is that, of course, this company will not be a bank, so the Bank of Slovenia is not taking control because the company will not be a bank and in fact the Bank of Slovenia does not control it. The Bank of Slovenia, or the current idea in the banking union, even an international institution, is likely to be the European Central Bank, will continue its supervision in good banks that have been cleared banks. The next important thing is that this measure will not only resolve the investments of borrowers who are already in bankruptcy, but also those who will remain potentially bankrupt, where the borrowers are still healthy, but are still in debt. And if part of the debt is converted into capital, it is more appropriate to do so centrally, because at the moment, if you talk to bankers, they have great problems in coordinating within the banking union, because if only one bank disagrees with the reprogramme, the entire reprogram is failing and the company can actually go bankrupt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u189	Thank you very much for these explanations. I assume that there is no longer a desire to discuss Article 3. I don't see any hands, so we are closing the debate on this article. Article 4 and the amendment to Article 4 shall be put to the debate. The amendments were tabled by coalition parties. Anybody want a word? No one wants the word Mr. Frangež, do you want the word? [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u190	I raised my hand. Probably for a purpose. Isn't that right, Madam Vice President? Article 4 introduces one very important change which indicates that the concept itself has been changed during the adoption phase of this law. First of all, this was set up as an agency which, of course, is otherwise bound to report. In amendment 4 to Article 4, the amendment provides that the bank’s claim management company shall disclose to the public the information relevant to its business as applicable to public shareholders, except in the case of information which is confidential under the law governing banking. This means, therefore, that in this company, which will manage an extremely important process, we will in fact be sentenced to very supple information that society as a shareholder will in fact be obliged to provide to the public. I think that this is simply for such an important process, for such an important activity, on which it depends on the achievement of the objective of generating credit activity and consequently the conditions for economic growth, and in particular in view of the fact that the company will manage an important part of the assets that will be financed by tax money, cannot be enough. I understand the formal reasons for reporting as a shareholder company, but I ask the Government to justify it. The question is whether the Government considers that this makes the public responsible for the potential engagement of €4 billion in tax money sufficient in this regard. I do not expect Mr Šircal's response, I expect it from you, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u191	Well, as has been said many times, when the government wants to come forward, it will clearly indicate and receive a word. Does anyone else want to discuss this Article with article 4? There's only one wish for a debate, so I'm just giving you the word, Mr. Brultz.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u192	Thank you very much. This is the same as the holding company, when the law protects the public, or that there is no record of a sale before the National Assembly, of a strategy so far, it clearly states, in the case of business secrecy. Even today, the Slovenian steel industry still keeps business secrets from becoming public about the kind of nonsense that has been made. And it's the same here, but it's going to be a bank-related information that the National Assembly and other authorities aren't going to know, because it would reveal a lot of things. These are security guards that allow things to be resolved under the table. I will not support such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u193	Thank you very much. There is still a desire to discuss Article 4. I see more hands, can we give Mr. Meh a word? Mr. Meh and then Mr. Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u194	Madam Vice President. It is, of course, ladies and gentlemen, for the role of this Parliament. When a Member or a Member asks a question to a civil servant or an official, it shall reply. We cannot afford this, we can ask a question and then the Secretary of State decides whether or not he will answer when he applies. We ask questions, that is our right, and we must insist on it, because otherwise we are already very low with the reputation or image of the National Assembly, and we can certainly fall even lower if we do so. That is why I think that these answers should be given, not if the government wants to respond, the government needs to respond. He can also say he doesn't know. Now, however, if we don't get the information that we have by this law, the previous law around the Slovenian State Holding has decided that we no longer decide that we will not get the information, that we will not give the consent. So we won't even know what's sold, how it's gonna sell and what's gonna happen. And that's the worst thing that can happen, and I can't vote for it. I ask again, of course, how we will carry 1.2 billion Zvon claims and how much it will cost Slovenian taxpayers. And I was very worried when the Secretary of State said something, but I thank you for this, absolutely good, because it was said that an investment could turn into a bad investment and then this bad investment would move into a bad bank. In this case, it can be a part of a good company, a part of a company that has everything it can do, and then, in this case, it can be a sale of this part of the property, which is a state-owned, that is a bad investment, and in this case, what can happen in this company is probably something that we cannot afford to sell this company to a buyer who is not a strategic buyer who is, of course, a strategic employee and who is not a strategic buyer when we are able to produce and sell our products. That's why we're worried. I have spoken here several times about the fact that I am so concerned about what will happen to energy, and that, of course, I am also concerned about the society which is very important in this Slovenian space, I speak of course about Gorenje and about the fact that the country is a very important owner and if something can be done here. And it is, of course, that people have the right to know what we are actually going to do with all these bad investments, as well as potential sales or whatever happens. I still think that the design or management of these bad investments is extremely responsible, that is to say, the specific function or behaviour that a person must have, or the knowledge that he must have, and that this is a matter that we will have to form a group that can work with it. That's what I'm worried about again. But in any way, ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament will be valid if we choose it ourselves, and others will not give it to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Meh, also for your comments. But if you would like to take your proposal into account, I would suggest that you propose to amend the Rules of Procedure, which does not allow or require the Government to do so at the moment. Let's move on to the debate. What if there's another wish? Four. I'll open it up so there won't be any embarrassment, a chance to apply. Please apply for a debate on Article 4. Mr. Matjaž Han is first.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u196	Just a sentence. Three days ago, I listened to the gentleman with interest in the National Assembly. I could say the age of the National Assembly, Mr Jerovsk. And I have to say that I can't find this moment after the magnetogram that the subject was about. I think it was the RTV supervisory council, where he said, I'm going to make up a little, in half, Jože, that he doesn't allow the National Assembly to get acquainted with this and that subject, and that's not good. Jože, with this law that we will adopt today, even after you are in the opposition, and I believe that there will be a Member, you will not be able to discuss what happens to bad claims, how bad claims happen and so on. You'll be able to go online, and you'll be there to read all about these companies, or you'll be familiar with them, and unfortunately you won't have any influence. And as an old MP, a Democrat, you shouldn't let that happen. I won't allow it, and I won't support this article.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u198	Thank you, Madam President. Even in this article, I think, I would now like to point out that there is still no simple answer to the question, which is essential for decision-making, and generally there is no simple answer to this article, so when can a craftsman who has problems today expect to have a good business plan, with Slovenian banks, because they are inequitable and do not work, when, in the opinion of the proponents, if this law is adopted and will work, when will this craftsman feel any benefit from it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u199	Thank you very much for that question. Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u200	Thank you so much for saying that. I do not think that it is necessary in this House to force anyone to answer or to report to or to do anything. This is actually not in the Rules of Procedure and if the Rules of Procedure do not require it, then we can certainly refer to the Government, but it is certainly not fair if you want to refer here to the Secretary of State. I do not think that such matters and, of course, such pressures are due, or do not need to actually bear such matters here. And I think that it is also up to Members to raise this debate to a level that will not expose any individual here, especially one that has not come to this Parliament on the basis of elections. And again, Mr. Meh. You said before, don't represent anything else I said. I can do it again. I hope you will represent more, but Zvon and the other financial holding companies to which the claims will be transferred, the bank's claims to these holding companies will be transferred at the same time, and this insurance will be assessed as to the amount of this insurance and will therefore be issued to the State guarantee bond bank. And based on that, it'll all work out. So here is not the question now, how much will he get holding or not get holding, but is the question of how much will he get from the bank. We're not saving any holding companies here. We still have a lot of such holdings. We have other holding companies, and I'm not going to mention them now. We're saving banks, not holding companies, that's the thing. And, of course, here's the question of what the National Assembly needs, which data it gets. I think you all know what information is required to provide to a public limited company and what are the standards that determine which data should be provided to the public by a public limited company. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr Han, you can decide anything, you can propose a law in this House, you can do anything, you as a Member, I think you have the opportunity, like me, to propose a law, to break the law, whatever you want. Mr. Han says he can't decide and he doesn't have to influence. You can influence anything. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u201	Wait a minute, if you can finish [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u202	Do you know what a shareholding company requires to report?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u203	Mr. Shircel. Okay. Look, you can talk at the next point, you can also talk at this point, Mr Weber, because you haven't discussed it yet. While your colleague, Mr Matevž Frangež, is no longer able to discuss this point because you were already the first debater. If there is no more desire for debate, Mr Jerovšek. [[...]] But before that, it's procedural, first of all, Mr. Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u204	A clear question was raised. Look, we're deciding today on important things to solve an important problem. And it is not possible to go beyond one relevant question of a Member, Members, and above all the entire opposition party's parliamentary group without getting an appropriate answer to the questions raised in Article 4. Let me remind you, the current version of this law, you've changed it so many times to admit [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u205	Your procedural proposal, Mr. Frangež, is it?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u206	I'll tell you right away. "The Banks Claims Management Company shall be liable to provide information of a public nature in accordance with the law governing access to information of a public nature, except in respect of information which, in accordance with the law governing banking, may not be transmitted." The dictatorship, as proposed by the coalition in this article, is significantly narrower and reduces the public's ability to look at relevant data on how 4 billion euro of taxpayer money is used, which will be issued in the form of bonds to banks. Respected and respected, on the basis of these bonds, the bank's claim management company will receive some assets, and the public will have no other insight into this than to look at the balance sheet and balance sheet of the bank's assets management company. Ladies and gentlemen, this is unacceptable. That's why I'm asking the Secretary of State for an answer before we move on.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u207	Thank you for your procedural question. The Rules of Procedure are perfectly clear on this. We continue the debate. However, the Secretary of State made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I'd just like to explain for a minute. Involving the public in when something is to be sold can pose a material threat to the business of the company and thus increase the cost for taxpayers. This is why the amendment is proposed as it is. Otherwise, as far as reporting to the National Assembly is concerned, this will be done every six months. The company will also be audited every year. The Court of Auditors will exercise control so that security over control or control of the company is ensured from this point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u209	Thank you very much. I propose not to raise direct questions, but to discuss the article and the amendment to the article, and in this context there may be issues. Mr. Weber, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u210	President, now would you like to explain to me where you have the basis in the Rules of Procedure to prevent us from asking specific questions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u211	Mr. Weber, I apologize for my embarrassing formulation. I just wanted to point out that the debate below allowed us to do all the questions you still have and to ask them in the context of the issues raised in the debate on the following points. We will proceed with the debate if there is no further desire to discuss Article 4. Mr Jerovšek, would you still discuss Article 4? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u212	I've been challenged before, but I didn't report to the replica. Here I agree with my colleague Han, I am always against, I am not impressed by the limitation of Parliament's powers. It's the same thing in this case. So I even think that this is actually not a very happy formulation, although I think that the Commission for Budgetary Control must also get the data past that. And we have a commission of purpose in this House. And second of all, my friend, because my colleague used to quote me, he got me on the wrong control board. Here I want to say this: bad examples are spreading rapidly; you have set a very bad example of how Parliament's powers with that amendment are being taken away. You've been transferring from Parliament to the President of the Republic I don't know what. And then, of course, such bad examples are also found in government bureaucrats and all that. Last time I called you, don't do this to take the authority of the National Assembly. And let me also say something about the previous debate. My fellow Jew earlier said that the solution proposed by Mr Bole is better than what the Ministry has drawn up. Now I am asking the former Minister, the former Government, why you did not take the advice of Mr Bolet, you must have been doing some study to do this institution of law, where Minister Križanič came from, and Mr Mencinger was from the same institute, and Mr Pahor was sitting in the back, but I don't know why you didn't use this saving advice at the time, but today you are offering them to us, including Mr Bolet. When I first read Bolet's proposals, they seemed fine to me, but then I said to myself, "If his government didn't want to accept them," because he wasn't blind at the time in his previous term. If they were deaf and blind to his proposals, why should they be ours now, then this is a sublime matter on which those who could draw from state resources could continue to draw. I'm such a layman because I'm not an expert in financial matters. It is logical, however, that a fellow member of the Institute, Mr Križanič, engages his colleague from the Institute and that he is not deaf to his advice. And even when Mr Pahor elected ministers, he could have chosen Mr Bolet as Minister at the time, but he would have had a saving solution in that country, and he did not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Now I'm just asking, I assume you have the replicas, but I think the first Mr. Han with the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u214	That's right. Jože, I apologize for mentioning that you discussed when we talked about the RTV Supervisory Board – not really, you were discussing that amendment when we told the holding company that the president would have the opportunity to appoint members to the Supervisory Board. There you made it clear what we must do in the National Assembly so that we do not know what we are sitting on cut off. But I have to tell you, if that's what you were thinking three days ago, think like that today. And I must tell you that the Commission for Public Finance Supervision is not competent to discuss this society. She's not decent. Like us, we are not responsible for discussing other companies, where the co-owner state is, or whatever, so that we disable the system, every kind of debate. But we will somehow be informed of what will happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u215	Thank you. Next line. The Lord or the Magus. Thirsty.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u216	Even if you say comrades, I'll be quite pleased. Our colleague, Mr Jerovšek, probably remembers that I was an agricultural minister, not a financial minister, but, unlike this government, which is afraid to answer my questions, you are defending it, God forbid it to be pressure on the government, and I will answer you. The former government also helped banks, and so in 2011 we had an economic growth of 1%, not as you did in this year's second quarter minus 3.2%, which is the second worst result in Europe. That's the result of your government. Why, however, it was not possible to help the Ljubljana Bank more, but you all know here, also probably the secretary of state who, together with the minister this year, burned himself in the recapitalisation of the Ljubljana Bank because it was impossible to replace the supervisory board in which, as a assembly, there is more than a quarter and an early replacement in the ownership structure of the KBC as long as the mandate expires, is not possible. This bank, which is doing damage to the Ljubljana Bank now, has also done very effectively the same time we were in the government, and probably never again, and there was no way to replace it. But if it were possible and if we hadn't done it, it would have been a mistake. Nevertheless, the banks were operating in the previous system and did not say that they did not work, as this also resulted in 1% economic growth, unlike the situation you brought us into this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u217	Are we done with Article 4? I'm sorry, I didn't see you, Mrs. Potter. Wait a minute. Mrs. Potrata, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u218	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr Jerovšek is the principle of the relationship between the Government and the National Assembly and the President of the Republic. Whenever we have adopted any or any law and discussed who should have a word in proposing or deciding, we have always advocated the fact that the President of the State is less political than the National Assembly in direct elections. If I am looking at the National Assembly in this mandate, then the respected members and members of the coalition should ask themselves what decisions they have made to demand the fact that they have extended the deadline of the Government and that they have only confirmed government decisions. But with three examples, I will tell you from paragraphs 10, 22 and 31 what level it is, then the National Assembly will be appointed to the law. The Government may inform the National Assembly that it has issued, adopted or amended a sub-law. Excuse me. He may inform of the adoption of a sub-law. Now tell me what kind of sub-laws we decided in the National Assembly. It's published and we can learn, but you wrote it in the law. However, where the National Assembly should have jurisdiction to co-decision, it should be informed in due time, affecting decisions, and there you cut them. This is a question that we are discussing, a law that is a lot of questions, little answers, but above all, we do not get clear answers to those questions that are essential. Excuse me. There's talk of a cash flow, like a cash flow without money. Although I am more familiar with the flow of thought, but I know that at the end of the thought flow and at the end of the cash flow, I suppose that money or at least those who should pay something that will have to be taken somewhere and even if it is guaranteed, it is finally known who he is and what he is following in a particular situation. If you want me to explain this to you in detail, I can, too, but I find this House unworthy to explain it. And that's what we don't get an answer to. That's what the law says about recapitalisation. Yeah, I guess you're not going to say it's going to be without money. By not proving to us that we do not prove an appropriate level of understanding of the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u219	Thank you very much. What would we have a replica of, Mr Jerovšek? If she mentioned you, there's not enough reason for the replica. This time there will be no replica, let's move on with the debate. Mr Jerovšek, you will also be able to explain further. Just a moment. Can we close with the debate on Article 4? [[...]] We can close. We are moving on to Article 7 and to the amendment tabled by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. I'm opening time for discussion if there's any desire for a debate. Please sign up. Two reported discussers. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u220	Dear Chairman! I don't know how to ask a very polite question that no one will understand that I'm trying to pressure the government. Because the opposition's potential to pressure the government is incredibly large, it's terrible and it's frightening the coalition. But once again I will be extremely polite to have someone explain it to me, here in the National Assembly today we have a law with which citizens and citizens want to burden us with the potential of €4 billion. We all agree that the cause of the difficult economic and then the general situation in Slovenia is a credit crunch. I assume that with this purpose today, this law is present in Parliament, in the National Assembly of this country, but let someone say, if you are already thinking of giving us 4 billion, when will the effect be? Not in big words, but on a practical case. To repeat, very politely, without wanting to put any pressure on anyone or any of this scare, I do not really want to, let us explain, please, if today a craftsman has a good business programme, he will not get a loan from Slovenian banks, because they are in a credit crunch if this law, which we are opposed to today, is in what time will Slovenian craftsmen be without this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u221	Thank you very much, mag. Thirsty. Now you've asked this question several times. I am concerned that we have 20 open articles or amendments to the end and we can expect your debate, but you have every right. Now it is Mr Matevž Frangež's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u222	With the amendment to this article, we want to depoliticise the institution that we will set up under this law. The Bank Claims Management Company is a political institution. The Assembly of this company is on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Management Board of this company will consist of an interesting political key, where the Government will in fact appoint a whole set of non-executive directors, while the non-executive directors will then elect executive directors. This will be a political delegation and that is quite clear. We are trying to depoliticise this institution and give power to decide the fundamental issues in this society, in this measure for the rehabilitation of banks to professional institutions. Yes, we don't think that everything is fine in Banka Slovenije either. Nor do we think that the regulator has played a role in the process of creating the problem. It is evident that at that time all control mechanisms, including mechanisms in the Bank of Slovenia, were cancelled. But remember, first of all, they've canceled the supervisory mechanisms in the banks. And those who had the President of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank and the President of the Supervisory Board of the New Credit Bank Maribor today have found it very difficult to plead with the Bank of Slovenia where the central bank was with its supervision, after their people, members of their clients were the Presidents of the Supervisory Board. External control is important, but internal control is also important. And they both canceled. That's why we're here. Not because the state owns the banks, but because someone on behalf of the state as the owner has not done their job, and they have been politically engineered individuals. We therefore propose that the Bank of Slovenia play a role in the management of bank claims. Banka Slovenije is an independent institution responsible to the National Assembly. I am sure that this step will reduce the assumptions we have regarding the bank recovery process. I can describe it to you. We said what we were afraid of. We are afraid that this process will be too costly, due to the technical complexity, in particular the extent of the necessary valuations, the necessary procedures to be carried out, regardless of the fact that you have ruled out this, I will say, a large part of the system's legislation is so complex that it will not be feasible. We fear that, at the end of the process, many of these investments will be sold under the table, we fear that money will already be washed somewhere for this property to be collected and created through it what was the intensity of the 2004-2008 mandate has failed – a new economic elite that will be the basis of a new political elite, a political elite that will be fueled by friendly media, in the capital power of some authority. Was that the intention of the left? No, no, no. The Slovenian Hand once spoke publicly about this. And I'm afraid of this process. Let's make this process more transparent. Help us to remove these suspicions, give the role of the Assembly of Banka Slovenije. In this way, you will show that you really care about the rehabilitation of banks and that the rehabilitation of banks is not an excuse for another process that you can implement through this law. It is important that Banka Slovenije participates in the rehabilitation of banks, regardless of what we may resent in the past, today we can find that this law is adopted with clear and evident opposition from Banka Slovenije, that Banka Slovenije does not want the role, the marginal role you want to give it with this law, because it will assume sole responsibility, but cannot have the proper effect that the rehabilitation of banks would take place as we wish – in an undisputed professional way – be technically feasible and as convenient for taxpayers and taxpayers. This should be our common interest. Accept our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u223	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss the amendment to Article 7? I'm opening a debate. I'll open the application by asking you the following. In Article 2, we discussed in general, such established practice in the National Assembly. However, I ask that the following amendments or subsequent articles be discussed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the amendment. I'd ask all the debaters to stick to it. Now I'm opening the application. I'm asking you to sign up. Just one more thing, Mr Frangež, because I didn't mean you, I thought this was true for the discussion below. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u224	Thank you very much. We're back to the question of whether we're moving in the right direction. I said earlier that I am in favour of intensive control, and I will also consider whether it allows us to do so, or I will not support it, what Mr Han has put into question. Here, I believe that your proposal is going in the wrong direction again, as we are in the last supervisory council. In fact, if the Assembly is – we over the Government have political instruments to demand its responsibility, we have interpretations, we have everything, the ministers are sensitive, and the government is on thin ice, forever. I come to the Bank of Slovenia, and there our influence is absolutely not reaching, absolutely! This is today's condition that proves it. The Bank of Slovenia is a Babylonian tower in which it is impossible to get through the influence of Parliament. An additional argument, Mr Pahor, the former Prime Minister of the Government, acknowledged at least the post-festum that he had been misled, that he had not been given the right information, that the Government had made the wrong decision on this basis. The Bank of Slovenia and the Governor said nothing, for the last time, we did not tolerate any errors in banks. Think of it, we did not tolerate any mistakes, as if these Slovenian state banks were harmless. They've taken six billion unscathed, that's true, harmless to them, to bankers, for now. But for the people, sinners are great. And once again, here I think we have via the government, if the government is a congregation, a significantly greater chance of monitoring. For I know that any opposition, as soon as something gets out of the way – and it is always coming to light, at all times, from a government where nothing can be kept secret – will react quickly with extraordinary meetings, with the interpretations and instruments that Parliament has at its disposal. And such instruments, of course, must be used in this case. Here I suspect that in Banka Slovenije you will forever have more influence than our side, because bankers have their hands tied to old sins and will protect each other for a long time. This is how you try to ensure your influence. And before that, Mrs. Potura, when she said that I had started the debate on what to bring to the President of the Republic, I think that the last of my discussions with you had led to some discussions, and at least it seems to me that little Mr. Pahor had influenced you, but what are you breaking, so today Mr. Weber acknowledged that the ideological leader of this party, who is not here today, is Mr. Golobič, and that he is in fact also the leader of Mr. Türk's campaign. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u225	Mr Jerovšek, we are talking about the amendment to Article 7. Please hold on to this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u226	Yeah, it's a broader dimension, maybe you don't understand it, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u227	No, we have addressed it more broadly under Article 2 but now we are dealing with it more closely, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u228	But the state is the interaction of all levels. [[...]] You know, if you have the right president, then there's more order in the banks. We don't have it so far, in order, and there is something that needs to be changed in this position. And I said before, change is Mr. Beast, so we're clear. And this article of yours protects the current state so that we don't have a look at what's going to happen inside this society. And that is not a good solution, and it is also contrary to what you said in the preceding article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u230	Thank you very much. I will only talk about this article, namely the amendment, because it was felt that the amendment of the Social Democrats also required some kind of response, why not. Because, for the first time, we have the owner and we know who owns it. The owner is a country, the country in this case is represented by the Government and the Government, of course, also has a responsibility to the National Assembly, as explained by colleague Jerovšek. The second point is that, in my view, the Ministry of Finance and the Government have cooperated with the Bank of Slovenia in the preparation of this bill, by stating, of course, that the Bank of Slovenia would probably not be the best solution, as has already been said today, in short, on the conditioner and so on. And, of course, here is also now the question of the consent of the Bank of Slovenia, whether it would even like to be a assembly, regardless of whether it is essentially the owner and representative of the owner of the Government, this is not appropriate. Last but not least, it is the claims of business banks controlled by Banka Slovenije. And here the question is whether it is possible for both functions, the role of supervisor, to be on the one hand, and on the other hand the role of the Assembly to be on the Bank of Slovenia. This, in my view, is not acceptable and, therefore, I cannot support the amendment of the Social Democrats. However, I agree with something else, or I appeal to something else, that, as already in this law, regardless of the fact that Banka Slovenije has great reservations to this concept, the Ministry of Finance or the Government has adopted a number of proposals or several proposals by Banka Slovenije in this law. And for the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks, cooperation is essential on one side of the Company for the Management of Claims of Banks, Bank of Slovenia and Ministry of Finance, in the innermost circle. And here I think it is extremely important that these three institutions cooperate with each other, so that this society can also be effective, successful. It is also successful in this direction that as much as possible will be derived from the so-called disputed claims. But for the reasons I've said, I can't support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u231	Thank you very much. I ask if anyone else wants to discuss it, but I find that no, so I am closing the debate. And I am opening the debate on Article 8 or the amendment to the same Article. Anybody want to talk? It's just another term. Apparently, no one wants to discuss it. We continue with Article 9 or the amendment to Article 9. Amendment of parliamentary coalition groups. I'm guessing there's a desire to discuss it, so I'm opening the application. Please sign up. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u232	Mr. President-in-Office. This article also discusses measures and modus operandi, which is why I am again asking the question in this article, for the sixth time, and I will also ask it 20 times if it is necessary. I actually want to have an answer why we're even adopting this law if you can't even tell me when it's supposed to take effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? The Secretary of State will make a statement when he decides he will. Of course I call him if you want a word? [[...]] Dr. Krusec, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u234	Thank you very much. So, the question about the credit crunch. One of the aims of the law is to eliminate the credit crunch. A credit crunch can be eliminated when banks have sufficient capital and when dealing with new loans, not with old or bad claims. So the credit crunch can start after the bad claims have been transferred from the banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? He won't, so I'm opening a debate on Article 10. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment to Article 10, which is the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Does anyone want to discuss it? Yeah, I can see the hands, so I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u236	I turn on the microphone, I see the shape of this article, so it allows me to ask a question. I would like you to remember that this National Assembly is sovereign. Do not act like you are dealing with children in kindergarten. You have received a specific question, this law has some effect, I suppose, at least if the goal is to give EUR 4 billion guarantees as a country and burden citizens and citizens, everyone will calculate how much it is on their heads. And I'm actually interested in when the effect will be, because the only reason this law is going to end the credit crunch. You said when we recapitalized, but as far as I know, this law doesn't talk about recapitalisation. So I ask again if today the law will be passed, when will the craftsman expect him to come to the bank on a normal path to the loan, like Austria, Germany, France and, what we want, Slovenian craftsman in Slovenia. Remember, today you want us to adopt a law that will burden the country for 4 billion. I assume you've done at least a projection of the effects, but if you haven't, say so and withdraw the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u238	Thank you for your word. Article 10 deals with the activity and rules of operation of the company. And in the DeSUS Group, we have proposed a subparagraph to this article, which reads as follows: "On the basis of the audit findings of the infringements, the Bank Claims Management Company must propose within three working days, in accordance with Article 32, paragraph 1, of this Act, a temporary prohibition on the possession by the competent court of assets of the infringer. In the evidentiary procedure, the owner must prove the acquired ownership within six months of the seizure. Unproven assets from unlawfully acquired assets become a source for the recovery of bad investments in banks. In order to issue a provisional prohibition, the provisions of the law governing enforcement and interim insurance shall apply mutatis mutandis in accordance with this paragraph." I think that the solution proposed or covered by the amendment is primarily to resolve the issue of origin as quickly as possible. Which is another thing about banks, and I would add that we are only talking about operating according to the economy, but I think they have a rather negative effect on us individual beneficiaries of banking services. I suggest that we also consider in this direction that all mortgage loans granted for the purchase of apartments or dwellings should be extended from 30 years to 50 years, as this is still easier to repay to young families and all those who have committed themselves to this account. Maybe there's one part of the solution to this, but not to sell it, we get new social problems in the back, people who lose. It seems to me that this could be achieved even in the future, when this law will be dealt with in detail or the supervision and appointment of all these executive and not executive directors will continue to take place, including in this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u239	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Yes, I'm opening the application, please sign in. Mr. Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u240	I would like to draw attention to two things in the coalition amendment at the time of Article 10. For the thirteenth paragraph, this is, inter alia, the definition of this amendment, the following paragraph 14 is added: "The Banks Claims Management Company must sell at least 10% of the estimated value of the funds acquired on the basis of this Act each year." I want to know why it's in there. The question whether this provision follows what you wrote in Article 2 that the purpose of this law is to treat public money economically. The fact is that in a given situation, regardless of possible differences between us, we can agree that time is probably also important in determining when an item can be reached with an optimal purchase for a given asset. I wonder whether this makes sense under the clear concept that the 4 billion euro bond contribution also provides for a certain refund, but whether, in view of the optimal return on this asset, it is reasonable to set annual quotas for the sale of this property. The new paragraph 20 provides for the possibility of seizure of acquired property if it turns out that this ownership was obtained unlawfully. I agree, I will say, with the substantive intent of this paragraph, but I would like to point out that the article, as it is now written, is incomprehensible and I call on the coalition to avoid different legal interpretations before the National Assembly to correct this amendment. In fact, "on the basis of the audit findings of the infringement, the Bank Claims Management Company must propose within three working days, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 32 of this Law, to the competent court, a temporary prohibition on the possession of the assets of the infringer. In the evidentiary procedure, the owner must prove the acquired ownership within six months of the seizure," in fact, I apologize, the article is correctly written. On paragraph 19, however, I wonder why, without the congregation’s decision. The Assembly has a role to play under the Company Act. The congregation’s appeal is not such a hindrance that we cannot do so in the manner prescribed by systemic law. That's why I'm asking why there's been a withdrawal. Thank you very much in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Certainly, those Members and Members who follow the entire law and the time frame of the law can somehow be foreseen, and we can assess when this law will have a certain effect or when it will have an effect. And if we are now talking, of course, about this change, as also mentioned by Mr Frangež, that at least 10% of these funds should be sold annually, then of course we have a framework and we also have a framework, if we know that this company is time-limited, which is limited to five years. I am extremely sorry that Mr Jew, MEP of the Jews, is not in the Chamber, by asking this question, I think it is already five or six times, however. Here's an impact assessment. The first effect will be when this law is passed. The first effect will be when this law is enforced and when a signal is given to the international markets that in Slovenia we are ready very seriously to rehabilitate the banking system. The second effect will be as soon as there is a transfer of bad claims to society. In view of the legal provisions, where it also states how long it is necessary to establish a society, in what time it is necessary to adopt sub-legislative acts, this year is certainly this year. And the third effect will be when the banks themselves recover their balance sheets when they repair any, I'll say, under-corrected claims. And the greatest impact, or the final impact, will be, once pension reform is adopted, a labour market reform when the overall financial system or public sector system is consolidated. These effects will then show up. Now, of course, you can define this over time, but I think this is about the months, and then, of course, there will be effects. I hope that the Member of the Jews has listened and heard this answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u244	Thank you. But this has almost been heard as a fairy tale that the international monetary markets will probably be affected by the adoption of the law itself. However, I had listened to one of the largest coalition parties in the parliamentary group before, but said that the bank's problem with this law would not be solved. It's just a lever for recovery. Now think about what it is. Nor do I believe that the adoption of a law that the professional public has not only with us, but also with so many different judgments about whether it is the best possible solution to the banking system or not, is so different that the adoption of such a law will in itself be a solution and an effect. It is not true that what I have heard from the economy – and in fact we are dealing with banks because banks are the backbone of the economy and because we want the economy to receive capital – that neither those previous measures, nor the two packages of measures taken by the Government so far have shown what effects, but this will just be the adoption of this law [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u245	Mrs. Potrata, we are talking about the amendment to Article 10.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u246	Yes, Mr Vice-President, Mr Shircelj has also spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u247	Yes, we're talking about the amendment to Article 10. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u248	Yeah, sure. And this will just now blow up everything and raise the ratings of the country of Slovenia. It's strange where this party was in the previous term when our ratings fell due to unaccepted reforms. It's just, by the way. But now, here's paragraph eight in this amendment. If this eighth paragraph, the amendment of paragraph 8, is read - I must say that the language is very complicated, I think I have read it four times to capture its meaning - it is the fact that the declaration of the suspicion of a crime is already an official "persuasive" act and must be made public by those who perceive the suspicion of a crime. This should be put into law for a limited period of time, since this law is supposed to last until 2017, but it is probably an emergency measure which should have an effect only, in my opinion, for that in return. Because if I read, as you said, Mr Shircelj, this 10th article in the chain of all articles of the law, and some say that it is the core of the law in Article 32, then it is a limited period and I can imagine that things are set within the time frame of the government's operation. But things will be run away and run away as they will be. And now to those great stories about this relationship between the National Assembly and the government. Right here, it shows how the National Assembly will have absolutely no role to play. Everything will be decided by the Government and by the Government appointed administration – DUTBA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Replica, Mr. Matevž Frangež. It's a mag replica. Andre Shirtzl or what? Here you go. Yeah, 'cause he called earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u250	Mr. Shircelj, you're saying you're referring to the purpose of the whole process. Look, if this is the point of a sale, and it's logical to give up some property, we also have to pay for the fact that in the end the matter does not become a public debt burden, what happened in Ireland, logically, that this property will then be sold off. But, Your Honor, you should write this down in some expected projection in the explanation of the law. As you have now written this into law, it is not an optimal solution if you really want to manage well with public funds that will engage banks in the recovery process. You said 10%, you could say 20, you could say 30, you could say 5, absolutely administratively, we have to sell that much a year, regardless of whether we get the optimal payment in this way. Remember, however, that in the first year or so, given the transfer, there is likely to be no further extensive assets available. For example, in the first year, many things will not be clarified and similar and in this way, administratively, in my view, you do not necessarily have to tie your hands without being able to achieve the goal, and that is to really use the public funds that you will use for this purpose for the rehabilitation of banks. Step away from such commitments. They're dangerous. In particular, if we want to achieve real effect with 4 billion public money, the taxpayer's money, I will say, an effect. Then this type of interest – at least 10% every year, but if we look at the whole period of validity of the law for five years, we see that we should therefore sell 20% per year. You have probably found that this is not optimal because it makes sense to sell this property when it has the optimal price to pay the value of tax money in an optimal way. At this outset, you will not achieve what the Minister of Finance is talking about, that EUR 4 billion from the privatisation of banks, from the privatisation of assets that will be transferred to the banking management company, and we will repay these EUR 4 billion. No, you won't. This way, no!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Don't let anyone protest, mag. The spread has a replica to discuss the mags. Majde Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u252	Thank you very much again for your word. Well, here I really think I was misunderstood. I did not say that this marriage would bring a miracle and that all the problems in the country would pass into honey and milk, far from it. The question was repeated several times by your fellow Member, Mr Židan, when the effects of this law will be visible. And I have said that the first effects, once the law is adopted and enforced, will be the other effects when the claims are transferred and, of course, when banks are further rehabilitated, when they make some adjustments in their balance sheets and, of course, when the authorities in banks and the supervisory councils start acting differently and not under the burden of these bad claims. Further, once the pension reform has been adopted, labour market reform will take place once public finances have been recovered. These are, of course, the things that are expected from us today by all international if you want, including professional and political institutions including the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission, the European Central Bank and so on and so on. And this is what I said that I was misunderstood, so again, these are the first measures that will of course have an impact on Slovenia's ability to be in debt at lower interest rates and that these banks may also be in debt to cover existing loans at lower interest rates and that credit ratings will fall, credit ratings will stop and start to rise. It's multiple procedures and it's not a day and it's not a moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u253	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss the amendment to Article 10? I can see that I am, so I'm opening up an application for debate. Mrs. Damjana Petavar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u254	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I support this amendment. The bank debt management company will also carry out a review of the legality, efficiency and effectiveness of credit and investment approval processes and the use of credit funds, which are conducted as balances. It must also report any other irregularities identified to the competent authorities immediately and in an appropriate manner. In the light of the new Article 20 and the link with Article 16 paragraph of this amendment, given today's situation, when we note that in these banks in the past there has been not only negligence in the granting of loans but also intentional misconduct in the assessment of credit risk as well as criminal offences, I think it is necessary to establish responsibility for the occurrence of bad bank claims due to this underestimation of credit risk. This law and this amendment allow for revision, so I am voting in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u256	I would still believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a responsibility if it were a pre-September 1st 2012, which is a risk if this was a back-date. This is also said to cover fresh, bad investments and all or credits. But I wanted to ask the 10th article about this. This is said, "DUTB may acquire or by other means cover risks arising prior to 1 September 2012, in particular claims, securities, derivatives, rights and liabilities arising from approved credits or guarantees and shares, in any case together with related collateral..." This is so written that it is crystal clear what we can do and how we will then work after this first paragraph of Article 10. I therefore believe that today we should tell Slovenian citizens and citizens out loud that by adopting this law we will not eliminate the credit crunch, so that entrepreneurs will not receive credit if they do not. It must be said that we still have 18 or 19 banks that are not state-owned and are doing well, and they are not lending. It has to be said that what we are doing here today is actually confusing the situation that has been at least clean today in that we had all those bad investments and claims in banks and that we are going to transfer them today to a society that we don't even know when it's going to start working, we don't know what conditions it's going to be selling, and at least we don't know what's going to happen to it, because we don't get the information either. That's why I don't think I can support these changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u257	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Obviously not, so we continue with Article 11 or the two amendments to Article 11. The first is the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members and the second amendment is the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I see one hand, so I'm opening up an application. Mr. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u258	Your Honor! We propose that the first paragraph of Article 11 should be amended to read as follows: To finance the purchases of bank claims in accordance with Article 10 of this Law, the Bank Management Company may issue bonds or other financial instruments and rent loans with the guarantee of the State approved under the adopted specific guarantee law. The special guarantee law between mandatory components contains an assessment of the risks of redemption of claims. Bonds or other financial instruments issued by the Company for the Management of Bank Claims may be paid by transferring bank claims to a special fund. We therefore propose that the guarantees be approved by a specific guarantee law, which will define risks more clearly than has been clear so far. With the law we are enacting today, we are giving the government a blank opinion to potentially repay the country for EUR 4 billion, thus potentially reaching 60% of our gross domestic product. It's a dangerous process. We propose that the Bank Claims Management Company, on the basis of negotiations and analysis of the situation in banks, determine the extent of the necessary transfers, evaluate these risks and then re-enter the National Assembly by means of a specific law, so that we do not, today, without financial analysis, decide on the country's 4 billion-dollar bond guarantee for the Bank Claims Management Company without any financial projection. This is our shared responsibility to the public finances of this country, to the stability of public finances. I think that this is a very reasonable amendment, which reduces risks, because at that point of risk it will be possible to better define, better predict. We don't know these risks today. Please accept the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u259	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Yeah. Opening login option. Please sign up. Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u260	Thank you very much. One more word for it. With this amendment, we would really lay the groundwork for re-adopted legislation in the National Assembly and would translate the actual implementation of this law into the future. I do not know where this future would be, but I think that, because we would postpone the implementation of the resolution of bad bank claims, that this would actually have a negative impact on the international financial markets and thus the country could be in a worse position, so we certainly cannot accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u261	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u262	Thank you. I hope, Mr Vice-President, that you will notice that I will talk about the two amendments to Article 11, because you have previously given me a lot of warning about what I am talking about, and Mr Shirtzl, not in his discussion or in his replica. And here it shows what arrogance, cynicism and what else the coalition can deal with a small amount of opposition that can only speak of every amendment once and cannot respond to the repeated words. I will not support the amendment of the coalition to this article because it does not seem substantive to me. This is the nature of the second reading we met in tonnes, I will say, I have already said, to every article except for the 5th, and 36th, but those who had previously had an important role of the National Assembly against the Government, but this amendment of the Social Democrats' Group should be supported because, in fact, this amendment gives the National Assembly the opportunity to decide on things that we did not get the right answers to in this law. We don't know how much, we don't know how many times, we don't know, we don't know what the effects are. It is said that this law will take effect immediately, as Mr Shircelj said, immediately with the adoption of the law, will be the first effect, then followed by the following, but here is a principle of graduality that these 4 billion will be decided in the National Assembly by section. And I don't know what fateful consequences this will have on international cash flows, but maybe on some other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah. I'm opening the application and please sign in. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u264	Thank you. Despite all that I thought it was wrong for the opposition to even discuss the decision that you have made, that we can only talk once about the question, because, look, there are five of us, of course, 50 times you can beat us like you want, but we cannot react to it. But what I have heard from the coalition MP, however, needs an additional explanation, an additional reaction by the opposition and, last but not least, by the Social Democrats as the proposers of this amendment. Look, in the entire consideration of this law, we have found that we do not know what amount of bad claims this is and how we are going to solve them and how we are going to spend 4 billion guarantees. We only propose that when you clear these claims, then the National Assembly adopts a special law, in which you will have to specify exactly what bad claims are made and how much guarantees we will make for these bad claims. Here, however, it is really about the transparency of the operation of both the Bad Claims Management Company, the Government, which is provided by the National Assembly with the adoption of specific laws, where we approve the level of guarantees for those claims which will be subject to funding under the law that the National Assembly would deal with. Here is, I would say, the pervasiveness of those who blindly defend this law, that it will save the banks and that it will be a solution and that, finally, all the public will be aware of what is going on in the country. You are consciously preventing what is going on, and if this amendment is not supported, if this amendment is not adopted, you are simply further confirming our positions and you are actually saying your powerlessness because you have no arguments, but you want to cover it up by contradicting our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u265	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Yeah. Opening login option, please log in. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u266	Thank you, Chairman. In fact, this amendment should be accepted if good intentions are present. However, after the last debate, which also clearly showed why the Secretary of State could not determine the impact. He can't because he won't. The effect that the credit crunch will drop in this country and that we will develop normally further, when banks are further rehabilitated, I think we can translate, recapitalise and replace, say, incompetent administrations. We're going to have to do this anyway, the only question is if we're going to play in the middle of a game or if you're going to play with our Santa's money and share various gifts worth 4 billion euros out of our pockets, 4 billion is the guarantee scheme you've proposed, or it's going directly to investments called recapitalisation, which are due to the fact that they're not gifts, because in this way the state gets at least ownership in the first step. With this amendment that we have proposed, at least partially prevents us from giving a gift, indeed from Santa Claus from our pockets, so I suggest we accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Obviously not, so I'm closing the article. We are moving on to Article 15 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I see you don't. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I see you don't. I am putting to the debate Article 19 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Is it a wish to discuss it? Yeah. I am opening up the possibility of a debate or application for a debate. Mr. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u268	In order for this debate to be understandable, it is necessary to state what the Interdepartmental Group is. The third paragraph of Article 19 provides that the application of the measures for which the initiative was given in accordance with the first paragraph shall be deemed to be the application of one of the measures provided for in this Act, shall be decided by the Government on the proposal of the Interdepartmental Commission referred to in the fourth paragraph of this Article, taking into account the importance of the bank concerned for financial stability, the burden of risk items for the bank itself, the necessity of measures to ensure the capital stability of the bank and the most efficient and economic use of public funds or funds of the fund. However, it is worth noting what this Interdepartmental Commission is. As set out in this amendment to the coalition, the Interdepartmental Commission of the Government, the Interdepartmental Commission has 8 members or members, 5 members of the Interdepartmental Commission, i.e. an absolute majority, is appointed by the Government or appointed on a proposal from the Government, one of which is proposed by the Cabinet of the President of the Government, three ministries and one Ministry of Economy, the Ministry is considered as the Ministry of Finance, says three, the Ministry of Finance, one Ministry of Economy and one Cabinet of the President of the Government. The three members of the Interdepartmental Commission shall be appointed by the Bank of Slovenia and may also appoint other members who do not have the right to vote. I would like to know why the political regime of the Interdepartmental Commission will take key decisions on which bank may receive measures under this law, which assets will be transferred to the Bank's Claims Management Company and so on. These will be political decisions. I respectfully ask that the Secretary of State very clearly substantiate why a model has been chosen where the government, as a political body of the State, will have absolute competence in assessing issues of a highly professional nature. Why is politics so deeply embedded in the concept of bank rehabilitation? Would it not be wiser to leave this task to experts without political criteria? We keep reminding ourselves that this institution is a political institution and that this is also part of the lack of confidence in this concept because we do not trust this government. I'll be grateful for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Dr. Dejan Krusec, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u270	Thank you very much. With regard to this commission, such arrangements are also in other countries, in those where the bad bank has been successful. Such arrangements are in Germany, such arrangements are in Ireland. This is a matter of accountability or liability because it is tax money. If it were not for five members of the government, who would be the guarantor that the solution would truly be the most expensive for taxpayers if it were an independent professional council? That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm opening the application. Mag. Maja Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u272	Thank you. I have a very simple question for the Secretary of State. On what grounds can you claim that the government is the only guarantee and the only competent and only one really thinks about the interests of citizens and citizens? If that were true, there would be only a limited number of responsible people in this country. All other policies, with a national assembly worth — what kind of people? Who don't talk and act in the interest of people? This is the first question I ask you, and I think it is very questionable. By what criteria – should we still tell us – does the government act only in the interests of people? Is the decision to raise VAT on the media in the interest of people? I've only made the last decision for you. And this thing about counselors. The advisers may also be members of the government. Who are they? They're without a vote. It is not known how many members of these advisers can be additional. This is a very misplaced decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u274	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're off the subject today. The following should be said about today's topic. Today we are dealing with a solution called the recovery of Slovenian banks, especially system banks that have recently become sick for a serious disease. The first thing is before I even begin to argue that we should say something about politics. Politics is a decision-making process. It's a decision to make. The government, respected colleagues and colleagues, that Mrs. Poor Willingly, decided three years ago that this anaemia was adopted by the current government, which was confirmed by [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u275	Mr Breznik, I must warn you that we are talking about Article 19 but not whether we are talking about real politics or not. Today we're talking about the real topic. Please follow the amendment under consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u276	Mr Vice-President, allow me to make my remarks because the problem is that we have gone completely out of the way.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u277	Let me warn you, we've done nothing wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u278	I can warn you, we're gone. The first thing that is, is the history that these banks have been extremely ill lately and that there is a need for a solution. The solution is on the table today. So it's just the treatment that's on the table today. And look, appointment because we are talking about Article 19, Mr Vice-President, appointment is always a matter of policy. Politics is here to decide, which is why politics has gained its power and its government in the best things that are called elections. Elections are the basic "and the way" of democracy, which is why opposition colleagues today say they have only 5 or 6 Members, and we are 26 Members. This is the problem because this history was not correct three years ago. And we have this problem here today, and that's why the other government is here today, and this government has taken over the executive branch to solve the problem. And this government communicated to the public and to this Parliament as soon as possible and gave basic solutions to this problem, a drug called the cleansing of Slovenian banks. And the 19th article, which I am reminded of, spells out exactly how the Interdepartmental Commission, which will be established by the Government, will appoint members or members of this Interdepartmental Commission. And I don't see any problems here. Look, I don't know what you're afraid of. Governments are falling. In some normal democratic system, one government is coming, another government is coming. As you can see, today's government has five clients. Five parties have to coordinate. They're looking at each other in a coalition under their fingertips. And I don't see any fear. What do you see the problem here? As you know, Slovenian political space is extremely, I could say, balanced on one side. In the present case, I see it's not because I see it's [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u279	Is this article 19?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u280	Yes, this is article 19.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u281	Okay. I thought you were talking in general. This was to be said at Article 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u282	The question was, and the question of this article is, above all, who appoints this interdepartmental group. And that's the argument. The government appoints, the government is credible and will do so as soon as possible and solve this problem that we have. That is why the government is also the top of the executive branch of power. That's the point, and I don't think we have anything to add here.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u283	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. He made sense of you, he did, so you have a replica. Mag. Maja Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u284	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll be very short. It's not a matter of my mood and will, but it's a question of education, do you notice that there are women and men in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u285	Thank you very much. I've noticed a long time ago. It probably didn't fly me, did it? Okay. Since I no longer think there is a debate on Article 19 or the amendment, I am putting Article 21 or the amendment to Article 21 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I don't think so. That is why I am putting to the debate Article 22 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. No, no, no. We continue and put into debate Article 23 and the amendment of the coalition to Article 23. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I am putting to the debate Article 26 and the amendment of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 26. Anybody want to talk? I see you don't. That is why we are moving on to Article 27 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I see you don't. We continue with Article 28 and the amendment to Article 28. This is an amendment to the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Yeah. I'm opening the application. Mr. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u286	This Article and this amendment excludes the application of a series of system laws in its third reincarnation. Why did the government decide to exclude the application of the bond code? The Bond Code is the basis of our civil law and also lays down, inter alia, the conditions for the withdrawal, divorce, the modification of the contract due to changed circumstances, excessive deprivation, the disposal contract and a number of other civil law institutions. I would like to know why, from the point of view of the operational implementation of bank recovery, the transfer of claims and the similar need for such a radical exclusion of basic civil law rules. I understand that we have a slight problem because, for example, the credit agreement is concluded between the bank and the borrower, of course the bonding relationship, and that the transfer would require the consent of the borrower. I therefore understand the practical need, but I wonder why it is not possible to define, by law, those bonds that occur and need to be excluded in the light of the operationality of the transfer or redemption of claims to that end. Why is systemic legislation, the basis of civil law, excluded in general? This is a relevant question. Just exceptions to the system rules, just because we deviated from what is customary in international law, Slovenia has been in trouble in many areas. And this has caused a depraved situation, causing fishing in mud because there are no clear examples of what some rules mean. And then there's an additional accident by making our courts, higher and higher, different interpretations, I'll say, certain legal regulations. The best guarantee for a regulated legal state is insistence on systemic rules, that we do not give up because of the short-term needs of this or that we insist on what is in our legal environment, and this is not just Slovenia, because we belong to the wider legal environment in corporate matters, largely linked to the German legal cycle. So why are we excluding systemic legislation? It also seems particularly problematic to me that the fifth paragraph, which states, "without prejudice to the provisions of the law governing insolvency proceedings, the proceedings relating to the claims of banks receiving measures under this Act shall be considered as a priority to bankruptcy debtors and shall end within six months of the jurisdiction of the decision to initiate bankruptcy proceedings". I am very much in favour of the rapid bankruptcy process, but I am warning that if we want to achieve the proper and fair payment of all creditors, not only banks, other creditors must be relevant when we decide on this issue, because they are our citizens and our companies. An absolute advantage in this process means that some other bankruptcy proceedings will be pushed to the brink. And that's not right, because that's how things don't work out. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the initiation of bankruptcy proceedings under complicated insolvency legislation, as we have it and should generally be amended, is impossible, you have no guarantee that the procedure will be legally, transparent and fair to all creditors within six months. This can't be written in a marriage. It's like someone steals a bank, and you write in a criminal code that the police have to find out who did it in one day. Okay, sounds good, but you don't have any guarantee that the standard of marriage will be real. And the purpose of this House is to lay down clear abstract rules, not to impose, for some regimes and for some purposes, a special regime. Let me say that the Legislative and Legal Service of this Parliament has very clearly pointed out the derogation from the system rules. They are also largely covered in this Article. They're also in other articles. And that's dangerous. In doing so, you do not contribute to the transparency of the law in order to bring this law to life in a predictable legal environment. And this is important in terms of legal certainty. This is also important in terms of equality and equality of all before the law, of all participants. On the basis of this Article, [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u287	Thank you very much. I ask if anyone else wants to discuss the amendment to Article 28. I see you don't. That is why I am putting to the debate Article 29 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. On the following point, I have a warning that the coalition has tabled one amendment to the title, chapter 5, which is for article 30, which is incorrectly tabled, and that is why it is not being discussed and we will not vote on it either. That is why I am opening or putting into discussion Article 31 and the amendment to Article 31 of the coalition groups. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. He doesn't want to. I am putting to the debate Article 32 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I am putting to the debate Article 32a and the amendment to Article 32a of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I am putting to the debate Article 32.b and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 32.b. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I am putting to the debate Article 33 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups as of Article 33. I see that it is a desire to discuss it, so I am opening a report to the debate. Please sign up. Mr. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u288	I apologize deeply. An important topic today is, we are discussing an important problem and in Social Democracy we want to be sure that the coalition has considered all things. We set up a company to manage bank claims with a limited duration – for a period of five years. In the process of five years, let us hope that the law will show its effects. We have no doubt that the law will not bring about an improvement in the balance sheets of banks. However, we fear that this clearing of the balance sheet of banks is an extremely heavy burden on public finances. The applicant also refers to the Irish case several times. And with the concept, Ireland has led to a radical loss of its public debt and a radical increase in its structural deficit. Let us not repeat the mistakes that others have made! The Bank’s Claims Management Company shall cease to exist on 31 December 2017. In the process of five years you will also sell the assets that will be transferred from banks, of course to a large extent. You have determined the minimum dynamics of this sale: 10%, regardless of whether the optimum value of this property will be reached at some point. These are bad decisions. And allow me, because this is one of the last substantive amendments to point out that there are only two arguments for this law. Firstly, to clearly recognise the problem of all its size and to give a symbolic effect to the financial markets, there is a type of danger that, the coalition, despite the three rounds of amendments, has not been corrected. Many of the concerns that pose a great risk to our public finances, that a large part of the 4 billion euro bond guarantees will eventually also de facto be poured into public debt, the burden of our taxpayers that the law is based on an unproduced financial structure, without a single financial projection, without one serious analysis of the problem itself. Therefore, we argue that there is an alternative that is cheaper, which is more effective, not that the problem is completely left to banks, but that it is an additional effort to how the banks will also manage bad investments in an appropriate legislative framework in order to obtain what is lacking in the interbank market today. Today, it is not a problem of bank liquidity, the problem is access to long-term funding sources. And it is also a key problem for a number of companies, a number of companies, factories that rely on thread, because they do not have longer-term sources of funding and are forced under water by short-term commitments to banks. Let us improve the credibility of banks, improve their capital adequacy. We are today at 9% on the capital adequacy of banks, according to the minimum of first-class capital. The average in Central Europe is 12 to 13%. Consider the examples of other countries that have invested significantly higher shares of gross domestic product in the resolution of the banking system, and therefore this problem is smaller for them. We are dealing with the problem in a smart and rational way, which will not create a billion-dollar hole in our public finances, but will give banks an improved capital structure, thereby significantly improving credibility to access longer-term sources of financing, thereby giving a lot of the poor investment they already have in their balance sheets a more successful restructuring. Let banks together or individually exclude bad investments, but in their own direction, so that banks can handle their "core business" by lending and, on the other hand, train teams within the bank that can restructure bad claims and ultimately sell them well on the market. Dear coalition, I know this marriage is important to you. We're assessing the problem as important. We want to save him in the right way because we don't want to be hit hard over the years by the project.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u289	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I'm opening the application. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u290	Thank you. Amendment 33 extends from the original four paragraphs to seven. The explanation is a skeptic. Only the new fourth paragraph explains why it is as it was added, and then also for the sixth paragraph. For example, the second paragraph is not explained. But I'm interested. Here it introduces a different possibility of the duration of this terrible society. Previously, it was considered to cease on 31 December 2017, and this law is no longer applicable. However, the law may cease to apply if more than 75 % of the obligations entered into are sold. You don't know when. It is only known that the first things will be sold out in 2013. Some things will start to run after six months. And I'm asking a rhetorical question, which is real. What if, by that date, it won't be able to sell even 75%? I can only get 50%. Then what? But I would like to have an answer to this question, because there was a lot of talk earlier about how these are just guarantees, no obligations, nothing else. However, this amendment supports that sales performance will be significant and that performance will expire before 2017. Now, if I'm evil, could I say: Will this possibly be in 2015? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u291	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Dr. Krusec, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u292	Thank you very much. According to this point, only a brief explanation. It's just that the law also says, "you can suggest." And it would be pointless if, in some scenario, the company sold off claims earlier than in five years in order to pay all employees for the period to the end of existence, even if there were no claims or its basic activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u293	Thank you very much. I ask if anyone else wants to discuss the amendment to Article 33. I guess not. For this reason, I am putting to the debate Article 34 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 34. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am also concluding the debate. The amendment decision will take place in 30 minutes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this item of the agenda and also interrupt the 6th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 18.50.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u294	Dear colleagues, we continue the meeting. We are moving to the vote, so check the functioning of the voting apparatus. First of all, we have a vote on the 1st item of the agenda, these are questions of Members and Members to the Prime Minister of the Government. First of all, I put to the vote the motion for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Janez Janša to Mr Jank Webra's question on transparency of government governance. We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 77 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] The decision was not adopted. I also put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to Mr Jani Möderndorfer's question on the announced discharge in the public sector. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u295	A respected choir! On behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to explain why I will vote in favour. In the light of the answers given by the Prime Minister in this Chamber to the question of what criteria and criteria will be for the recruitment, both employment and discharges, and in the light of how he responded, I can say that this desire was also transmitted after this debate by the President of the Government. If you look at the magnetogram, he made it very clear in his debate that he has too little time to explain the whole issue, so I think it is right that the National Assembly will finally allow the President of the Government to explain here in this Chamber of Democracy what new approaches will be within democratic processes when the Government either continues to decide on human resources policy, to set new people, professional people, and above all what the criteria and conditions of resolution will be. I also have in mind forgiveness here. That is why I think this is all actually one aid to the President of the Government. I appeal both to the coalition and to the opposition to allow this public general debate, where we can also put, if only such will, new criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u296	We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 77 Members and Members, 30 to 46. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to item 3a of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. We will decide on the amendments tabled, based on the review of the amendments you received today. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia is obstructing this point, as you know. We are moving on to a decision on amendments to Article 2 of the Act. First of all, we have the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors under order number one. Mr Janko Weber has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u297	Thank you. With this amendment, we have made it possible to debate today in the National Assembly on what a bad claim actually means. And really after two hours, we finally received the Secretary of State's reply that the bad claim is actually defined by Banka Slovenije and our amendment, of course, we want to allow Banka Slovenije to be the one who, also by its decision, will define which company will be defined as the one that will have to be resolved due to bad claims. The Bank of Slovenia is also an institution which is already responsible under the Banking Act for carrying out this task. Of course, this law takes this task from her. Thus, not only do we define more clearly what a bad claim is, for which we allocate 4 billion euros, but also this amendment makes it possible for the Bank of Slovenia to actually carry out its legal duty under the Banking Act, even in this law, which talks about the Company for the Management of Bad Claims in Banks. This amendment brings us closer to what would be normal in the rule of law, and we hope that this amendment will be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u298	We are voting on the amendment of Article 2 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present for 10 to 46. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are still voting on amendment number two. This is an amendment to Article 2 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Mr Happy Meh has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u299	I cannot support this Article 2 for a number of reasons. Let me repeat today what are the reasons the Slovenian public must hear. First of all, the fact that there were no professional arguments and no proposal by the opposition that the broad and public debate was not that this was adopted in a short, fast procedure, that there was no President of the Government here today in Parliament, nor a minister, but that we considered one of the most important laws, and that we did not get answers to our questions, that the credit crunch with this law would not stop, that we would put in the bank bad investments, if I may say so, all those investments from all Slovenian banks, not just state banks, as it was said, and that we would put in this bank bad investments also everything that was made in Zvon Two and that we would pay completely everything taxpayers. It should also be said that they are not responsible for the credit crunch of state banks that have misdirected everything that could have been done and what had to be done, so it was obviously a bad management of all banks, because even those banks that are not state banks are not lending credit at this time, and we will not help the economy with this. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot support the amendment to Article 2, which in fact does not change anything, and I cannot fully support Article 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u300	We are voting on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 2 of the law. We're voting. I'm closing the vote. There's 57 in attendance, 47 in front of 8. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 3. The explanation for the vote is mag. Mr Dejan Židan on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u301	This amendment allows the actual parliamentary group to make it very clear why we oppose this law. Today, the debate was useful. During the debate we found, as probably all viewers and viewers, that this is a law that is made over the finger, that is a law that does not have projections, the financial effect is clear, it will go for 4 billion euros, we can call it gifts, but what is most important, this law does not allow the Slovenian economy, agriculture, craftsmanship and ordinary people to go better. This law does not resolve the functioning of Slovenian banks or banks operating in Slovenia, and this law does not resolve the credit crunch. It was very clear during the debate that even under this law banks will have to be rehabilitated, read recapitalised, with tax money and also under this law, the incompetent administrations of banks, including state banks, will have to be replaced. That is why we do not understand why tax money is being spent or is intended to be worth €4 billion when a better effect could be achieved with significantly less money. And once again, my respects, we would like to reconsider our actions, as the state of Slovenia could spend 4 billion more usefully elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u302	The explanation for the vote is mag. Mr Andrej Shircelj on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Today we are actually adopting an expert and we can also say a slightly more financially difficult law on a special company to manage bank claims. This company will manage these bank claims. The time limit by which it will do so is set by the principles under which it will manage these claims, and finally the valuation of these bad claims is determined. The debate on a bad bank, if you want, has been taking place in Slovenia since 2009. And this is an expert debate, a political debate. In these expert debates, much has been written in the last three years, and special round tables have been organised on how this is resolved and how they have resolved it in other countries. Therefore, the fact that it is not discussed that this is done quickly is certainly not true. But the question is, when and how has anyone been active in this room as well? This issue was not addressed in Slovenian politics during the previous government, and this was discussed in June of this year. A working group was established in July, where both representatives of the opposition and representatives of the coalition were present. This working group met four times and was agreed, not unanimously, on how these claims will be settled. This is not about automatic 4 billion taxpayers' money, it is only about bad claims being issued in bonds that will be guaranteed by countries and that can be paid. It is the fact that this way of saving banks allows banks to play their primary role, it is said that they will lend to the economy, farmers, entrepreneurs, the population and will be successful in doing so. It would be unacceptable and irresponsible of the government to provide on the one hand a guarantee of 4 billion and on the other hand have no control over how this money is actually spent. This is certainly one of the solutions today, followed by others: better management and management of banks and, if necessary, recapitalisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u304	Thank you. I would ask all of you to stick to the box of explanations of vote, not to repeat the debate on the law, on the amendments. We've been doing this for seven hours. We will therefore vote on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 3 of the law. Mr Happy Meh has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u305	I apologize for the views and for what many of us would like to do, so go home. However, this is something so important, it is such an important law that we cannot say that we have just adopted it and that we have not given our opinion, so I would like to express my opinion on this article. Of course, we have been able to discuss this law since 2009, ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday, when we received the amendments. It may be a professional law, but the professional public has not been unified in this regard. That's the basic problem with our law. The problem is that in the end we did not get the solution that would be coordinated and that would be the best thing for us all. Therefore, it seems to me that the control can be, I'm sorry, because we have always argued that the control of what is going to happen in the so-called bad bank will be by the Slovenian government, whatever this will be, so that political control will be. We are always fighting the darkness so that this control is not political, that it is mainly professional. And now someone says this is supposed to be an argument why we accept it, and we're talking about strengthening banks with this law. Okay. We need to strengthen the economy, we need to enable the economy to open up new jobs. And we have not heard anything about when new jobs are going to be, nor have we heard about when the credit crunch is going to be released, and we are talking only about how we are going to rehabilitate the banks. And when we read the newspapers, one among them is here, we can read about their conclusion, as journalists who know everything say, at the back of the bargain about what we are talking about in this marriage today. I can't support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u306	Thank you. I would ask if you would stop directly violating the rules of procedure, because we are in the vote and you can only explain your votes. We vote on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 3. The vote is under way. There are 57 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 8. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 4. Mr Matevž Frangež has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u307	The text of the law, as you are now amending, provides that the Company for the Management of Bank Claims is obliged to provide information of a public nature. The coalition amendment will bring this to a close, so that the Bank's Claims Management Company will now disclose to the public only the information that is relevant to its business, as is the case with public shareholders. In bank debt management operations, up to EUR 4 billion of taxpayer money will be involved. It is unacceptable that only information on what is the balance sheet, what is the balance of success of this company, will be disclosed to the public in this regard. Consideration should be given to better, more efficient public information, the same public, on behalf of which and at the expense of which you will use EUR 4 billion of taxpayer money for the wrong concept of bank recovery, without any guarantee, so that most of this amount will also be reimbursed and that it will not permanently be transferred to public debt and not to the structural deficit of this country. Social Democrats will oppose such solutions and I predict that we will vote against the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u308	We vote on the amendment to Article 4. The vote is under way. There are 55 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 8. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The amendment was accepted. We are under the amendment of Article 7 of the Social Democrats' Group. Mr Matevž Frangež has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u309	The Bank of Slovenia deserves to be critical of it. The absence of the role of the regulator and supervisor of the banking system in 2004-2008 is as valuable as the condemnation of the absence of internal control in the two largest state banks led by members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, Banka Slovenije is an important system institution that co-operates with the entire Eurosystem. Banka Slovenije is, by its application under the Banka Slovenije Act and under the Banking Act, the institution which must be involved in the process of bank rehabilitation. We do not trust this government, and therefore we do not trust it that it is in the interests of sound public finances, in the interest of overcoming the credit crunch as soon as possible, in the early recovery of banks and thereby in the creation of credit activities, and in the interests of creating the conditions for the start-up of economic growth, in the Banks Claims Management Society as necessary. We propose that we properly include Banka Slovenije in the whole process of bank recovery and the role of the Assembly of the Bank Management Company should be entrusted to an independent central bank. We invite you to support our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u310	We are voting on the amendment of Article 7 of the Social Democrats' Group. The vote is under way. There are 57 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 46. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 46.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 8. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 8. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 9. We're voting. There are 57 present, 47 votes against 8. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 10. We're voting. There are 57 present, 47 votes against 8. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The amendment was accepted. At article 11, we have two amendments. First of all, the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors under order number one. Mr Janko Weber has an explanation on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u311	Thank you. In the amendment to Article 11, we would like to stress once again that we will allow the National Assembly to adopt a special guarantee law and that the National Assembly may also receive direct information on what we will give guarantees for which there are poor claims. This law gives the government a four billion-euro snag to decide what it will define as a bad claim and why it will spend this 4 billion. This amendment allows us to adopt a special law, which defines precisely, for these claims, for example, one billion, for the other billion, for the third billion, and so on. That is all we want to achieve is that the decision to distribute billions will not pass through the National Assembly. And of course we will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u312	Matevz Frangež, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u313	In this situation, we have no financial assessments, no financial projections. We potentially owe the country 4 billion euros with a blank opinion. In the history of this country, it is not possible to find a major single financial operation with public funds such as this. Therefore, I respectfully ask you to seriously consider whether you are willing to give this blank menu for claims that are not assessed today, which we do not have any data on which we do not have any data. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u314	Mr Frangež, I would like to warn you that in explanation of vote you somehow cannot ask others how to vote. You explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u315	That's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u316	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u317	That's what we're gonna do. This issue is important for easy decision-making without relevant data. Our amendment allows the National Assembly to know that when we see a more accurate view of poor investments after the establishment of the Bank's Claims Management Company, only the Governor, the Finance Minister and the Prime Minister, not this National Assembly, but Parliament, as the highest body of democratic power in this country, know about this. We therefore propose to settle the guarantee with a special law. One way or another, you will propose it by means of an urgent procedure, so that it is not afraid that this process will take too long. When we assess what we are going to pay, let us issue the state guarantee and then we will have more assurance that we will actually repay the 4 billion euro guarantees, but not that this will be a permanent part of our public debt and a permanent increase in structural deficits for taxpayers. The proposed amendment will be supported by the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u318	We are voting on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 11. We're voting. There are 57 present, 10 votes against 46. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 46.]] The amendment has not been accepted. And an amendment under number two. This is the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 11. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 7. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the seven.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 15 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 7. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the seven.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 16 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 8. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 16 was adopted. Amendment of Article 19 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 8. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 21. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 8. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 22. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 6. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against six.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 23. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 8. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 26 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 8. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 27 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Mr Matevž Frangež has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u319	In its opinion on this law, the Legislative and Legal Service has made it clear that this law constitutes a serious derogation from the system regime, from excluding the application of a type of system law in that country. Such a situation certainly does not contribute to our being able to trust the proponents on the well-intentioned approach to the resolution of banks. The use of basic civil law institutions shall be excluded, the application of binding legal relations shall be excluded. And if we can still understand that these institutions need to be excluded from the issue of transfer of claims, where it is difficult to interfere with the contractual relationship between the borrower and the borrower, we cannot fully understand why the fundamentals of our bond law are excluded. It's not a good trip. It is also not a good passenger for believing in the rule of law the provision of this amendment, which provides for the absolute prioritisation of insolvency proceedings when it comes to the issue of the bankruptcy debtor and the investment that is the subject of treatment in the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. This absolute advantage means that someone else, someone, some citizen, an economic company, which, like a creditor, has an interest in its procedures, workers in these proceedings will wait for the resolution of bankruptcy proceedings for longer. Where does this right to be placed in front of other participants, in front of citizens, in front of other economic operators when there is no argument? It was also dangerous to provide that the bankruptcy procedure should be completed within an absolute period of six months. We all want it to be that way. Therefore, let us reach out and amend our insolvency legislation, but not on the basis of complicated, complicated procedures, expect that the court will bring proceedings within six months, because you have no guarantee that these procedures will be transparent, legal and just, to which insolvency law should also be burdened. You are using the wrong criteria in this law, derogating from system regulation. We believe that because there is a big agenda in the back: the sale of state property and the possibility of participation in commissions when this property is to be sold out. This is not the purpose of this law, this is not the intention of the necessity to rehabilitate our banks, this is not the purpose of what today should be a common task, and this is the start of credit activity, which is a prerequisite for us to start recovering economically in this country. We will oppose your amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u320	We vote on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 27. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 8. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 28 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 7. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the seven.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 29. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 8. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 8th.]] Amendment accepted. Amendment to Article 31 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 8. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 32 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 8. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 32a of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 8. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 32.b. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 8. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 8th.]] Amendment accepted. Amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 33. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 8. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 8th.]] Amendment accepted. And the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 34. We're voting on the amendment. There are 56 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 8. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The amendment was accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. The legislative and legal service and the Government have not informed me of any non-compliance due to the amendments adopted, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Procedurally. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u321	Since there is no government representative here, President, how can we trust you that the Government has not warned the National Assembly or you that the law is not harmonised?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u322	You can trust me because she didn't warn me. The amendments were known, the government was involved with them, so they'd know if anything were out of line. Mr Janko Weber has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u323	Thank you for your word. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will not support the Proposal for a Law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks for a simple reason, because we simply do not trust this government, which is itself within the mandate 2004-2008, in large terms, it has allowed banks to be indebted beyond all reasonable limits. From 15 billion, gross external debt increased to 39 billion. At that time there were bad claims, which also threatened the banking system in the Republic of Slovenia, especially those in state ownership. We simply cannot trust those who have allowed and cooperated in solving this problem today. However, to be able to consolidate and prove this mistrust, it is certainly also the content of the law and amendments that have been adopted during the hearing in the National Assembly, where it is very clear that you will distribute 4 billion euros of taxpayer money for claims, for which no one knows how they will be evaluated, on what criteria, and why some will be saved, others will not be saved, and what will ultimately be the result of this work. You have not even agreed to allow the State Assembly, in the interim stages, to adopt specific guarantee laws that would, for example, define that half a billion or one billion guarantees can be allocated to specific bad claims that the Banks Claims Management Company would have to explain to the National Assembly if our proposals were taken into account, to explain what this is all about. We really believe that today, if you adopt this law, you are legislating corruption that you will be able to carry out as a ruling policy in a legal way. We oppose this and we will express our opposition in the same number as the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats does. However, we hope that this will be permanently recorded in the history of Slovenian Parliamentarianism and that responsibility will be truly known when the consequences arise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u324	I am opening an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. The votes of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be explained by Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u325	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the law. I think that, after today, no one can say that there has been no opportunity to debate. We have been discussing practically since the beginning of the summer. Just the last week, actually, more than 10 hours. Members of the coalition, some of them were even more deeply involved in this law, we have received heavy accusations that we will legalize the theft, that we are being humiliated, even depraved, that is to say corrupt. All because we decided on something else, something new. After this law, we will use a maximum of EUR billion for recapitalisation and up to 4 billion only guarantees, not money. Everything else is a deception that the opposition can easily afford, as well as all allegations of planned robbery, which is to be staged by five coalition parties together. We have only two options, honourable Members and Members, for the problem that we agree to exist, so we must save the banks. Should we continue to direct government money to banks and hope that something will happen on its own, as it has done so far? 250 million today, 250 million tomorrow, will probably need another half million by the end of the year, and so on, without knowing when it will be over. So this is the only recipe offered to us today by a colleague from that party who has been using this recipe "successfully" for the last three years. But we can look at it differently. We will transfer bad claims to a special society that will specialize. Not me, not any of us, respected colleagues and colleagues, will study what a bad claim is, which is suitable for transfer and which is not. This will be studied by people who are professionally involved in it, who have experience with it. Banka Slovenije will also participate with its experts. Both concepts are painful, both concepts will also require state money. Today, of course, we could not be united about what it cost more. The opposition is convinced that the continuation of their way, i.e. the gradual recapitalisation, costs less. We, the government coalition, don't think so. However, we would like to make recovery as quickly as possible, that if we are already investing certain financial resources and providing guarantees, it is right to at least know what is going on with this money. Once again, support for the law by the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group and then for the work to begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u326	Mr Richard Braniselj will explain the votes on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u327	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues! The law that we are now adopting is dealt with by an emergency procedure. Although intensive coordination arrangements have been taking place for two months, we cannot say that this law has not been made with a hand in hand with a broader policy, with the entire policy and with the entire expertise of this country. It followed the practices of other countries, and at this point we have a law before us that is hard to say is ideal, but we can say that it is optimal. The Civil Code will support this law, and this law actually brings solutions to banks that do not need to use them, but can have a whole set of different measures that this law brings. Why are banks getting rid of them? To protect the taxpayer's money. Why can the Claims Management Company be effective or the most effective in recovery? Because all bad claims will be made in one place, by one organisation, by one society. We have real estate executions, executions and recoverys based on real estate insurance, real estate patents and, of course, we can follow some logic and solution so that the company can do so in one place – centrally and efficiently manage all claims. The law also brings longer outages, so there are no obstacles to processing and demanding both compensation and criminal liability here. That's what this law brings. And we cannot be blinded to a solution that will be free of charge for taxpayers. That's not possible. And this solution, we think, is very good. And one thing that is important in every law and also in this law: it is not a key marriage solution; it will be a key implementation. We are confident that professional key personnel will be put in place and that this matter will also be effectively carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u328	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, he shall have the word mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We will support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. There's more than one reason. The first reason is that this law saves the banking system, part of the banking system, unfortunately the part where the state owns it. This means that this law will primarily save state banks. Not because this would be intended only for state banks, but mainly because according to the Bank of Slovenia they are in the worst position. There was a lot of talk today that there was no data, no analysis. The Governor, Dr. Marko Kranjec, presented to this high assembly in July the data he had broken down by group of banks. If someone wasn't here, if someone didn't hear it, then that's no reason to listen here to the obviouss that there's no record of it. Finally, the Finance Committee also listened to the analysis of the Slovenian banking system by the Bank of Slovenia. This law has been coordinated with many, and this law also requires the participation of many, namely Banka Slovenije, Ministry of Finance and, of course, the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. In addition to these institutions, the comments of the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the Anti-Corruption Commission were taken into account, which means that the debate was broad and, of course, comments were also taken into account. This law gives the government responsibility to rehabilitate banks in order to serve the economy. And this bank doesn't legitimize corruption. This law may prevent further customeristic connections. This law may prevent the granting of friendly or political loans. This law transparently regulates the responsibility for granting these loans. This law quickly, I will say, effectively and quickly wants to resolve the problem of bad claims in the Slovenian economy. For these reasons, the Slovenian Democratic Party will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u330	On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u331	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposed law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. This is because since the summer we have had the opportunity to participate with our experts in the drafting of this law. I think that all together they have made such a law that will bring the necessary solutions for the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks and thus for the rehabilitation of our economy, as banks will also be able to share loans with the funds and thus help the economy in general. Someone whispered in my voice, more out loud than in silence, yeah, you didn't talk during the day. No, I'm not because we speak two languages in this National Assembly. We don't understand each other. But we, who don't understand any, don't talk and we're quiet. Especially because we think that what we are doing in this house does not lead to solutions and a better state of the country and the situation we are in. We've been talking for nine hours, and we haven't made any progress. Respected, tried methods – allow me to say to the end – the solutions that we had in the past repeatedly in hand or the recapitalisation of Slovenian banks have proved to be not the right solution. You know, if a farmer doesn't grow garlic twice in the garden or in the field, she'll never plant garlic there in a farmer's logic again. She'll go into some new form. She'll plant something new there. We, however, do not know how many times, want to solve Slovenian banks in the same way with recapitalisation. It's a survival method, and I hope we're all together, the ones we've found a better solution for bank recovery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u332	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u333	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I announce my support by the New Slovenia Group for the Proposal for a Law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. Ladies and gentlemen, today is more than an eight-month period, from which, with the signing of the coalition agreement on 25 January this year, the coalition announced very clearly how it will solve the problem of bad loans and how it will stimulate the credit activity of Slovenian banks in state ownership. Thank you to all those who have worked hard for this solution, which we will soon decide on. Thank you, too, my colleagues in Social Democracy. Unfortunately, I cannot thank my colleagues and colleagues of Positive Slovenia, who care little about this Slovenia. The debate on the so-called bad bank in Slovenia has lasted for at least three years. So there's no rush. We heard a lot about it, read it, and made sure of it. It is a difficult matter of marriage, which, with competent management, I stress, with competent management who knows what business ethics is going to do. We believe in the New Slovenia Group that this solution will have effects. Amendments. True, many of them were, but we have actually succeeded with them in bringing the original solution to a better and better solution. This was also said by the Governor of Banka Slovenije. In recent times, representatives of eminent international institutions have been in a hurry in Slovenia. The OECD supports this government in its efforts to stabilise public finances and to rehabilitate banks. Likewise, the European Commission. Also the IMF. The IMF supports this government in its efforts to stabilise public finances and rehabilitate banks. The European Central Bank has also given a green light to this solution. And I repeat again today our commitment here before the Slovenian public, reading the coalition contract, "with recognition of bad credits, the process of determining responsibility for their creation will also be initiated". And this kind of responsible people who were responsible for the bad situation in our banks will be extremely long. The New Slovenia Group therefore supports this solution and will also monitor its implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u334	After eight hours of debate, we are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. But there is a desire to explain the voice. It's not like I'm asking you or asking you to cancel or at least stick to the business clause on the explanation, but I would say once again, we've been discussing the law for eight hours and I think it's all been said. You want to explain your voice? Yeah. I am opening an application to explain the votes of individual Members and Members on their own behalf. The word for explanation of vote is mag. Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u335	Thank you for your word, chairman. Greetings to all present! It would be difficult for me today to explain in any other way than I did last week, when we were actually shifting the decision to yesterday or, as a result, to today. Today it has been said many times, one could say that it was a collision of two thoughts, the left or the right side of that hall, or a search for solutions. The proposed solutions, as I said last time, were opposed by a multitude of eminent experts and institutions, so I will also attract their opposition and will not support the proposed law. Nevertheless, I would like to take the words of my colleague Branisl, and I have somehow remembered that I agree that the implementation of the proposed law and not the law as such on paper is important in particular, so that I will also follow with great interest the solutions that have been cited by the applicants as arguments for the adoption of the proposal, whether they will be implemented in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u336	Mr Happy Meh has the floor to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u337	Ladies and gentlemen! Let me try again tonight to say that we don't know today whether 4 billion will be enough, because there may also be 6 billion bad investments. And he doesn't think we're going to end the recapitalisation of our three banks with a bad bank. Nevertheless, we will have to recapitalise our three banks. What we're doing, we're not gonna get rid of the credit crunch. No one has said today when we can start lending the economy, when we can change the relationship between banks and borrowers. Today we are giving a green light that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in addition to the Slovenian State Holding, will decide on the sale of companies from the Slovenian State Holding Company, and will also decide on all other investments that we are transferring to a bad bank today, if I say so. They are 4 billion, ladies and gentlemen, for all banks, all bad investments, not just state banks. This needs to be made clear, and taxpayers need to know. But something is crystal clear. It is crystal clear that 1.2 billion will be paid in full for Zvon One, for the investments that are at Zvon One, and therefore I strongly oppose this law because of its solution. We accepted it quickly, we received the amendments yesterday, and today we will decide what is far from normal for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u338	Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u339	Your Honor! True, 9, 10 hours was a debate, but some of them did not, so that Mr Jurša can have a good conscience. However, the efforts of the Social Democrats were to improve this law, but of course we did not succeed. The government does not burden citizens' and citizens' wallets with this law, but will continue to rob them. I'm sure that's because these 4 billion guarantees are going to have to be settled in some way, and that's going to come out of taxpayers' wallets. It is important to me that the proposal of this law is not accepted by the National Assembly but by a coalition. I will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u340	Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u341	Thank you, President. For the last time, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I will vote against this law. Not because I don't know that the credit crunch in the country right now is the worst evil, but because the coalition on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance has taken the wrong path. It has taken a path through the law that will burden citizens and citizens up to €4 billion without the banks being rehabilitated, since today during the debate it has been clearly announced that banks will have to be further rehabilitated and better managed. The coalition has also chosen a path that is opposed by most eminent Slovenian experts, a path that is also not favoured by international foreign experts, and a path that will have an impact over a longer period – not immediately, which would give rise to recapitalisation. In particular, it raises concern that this does not create a way to deal with bad claims, allowing for many abuses. That abuses are possible, it also indicates today the coalition’s view that at least some parts of the law need not be re-examined in the National Assembly. So to benefit from this law, at least to me, it was very clear. I will vote against this law, this law will put too much burden on Slovenian citizens and citizens without need, but it is the coalition, with you, president, at the helm.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u342	Mr. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u343	In a situation where it should be in the interest of all of us to resolve the issue of the rehabilitation of our banks as efficiently and as cheaply as possible, the government majority is pursuing its political agenda. The deprivation of social rights, the introduction of fear, the reduction of the country's credibility and the reduction of people's expectations have a very clear political objective. Today you are adopting a law that is one of two grounds for the sale of state property. You are not solving bank recovery, you are not launching credit activity, you are incorporating a systemic need to sell jobs as soon as possible after the shortest possible procedure, regardless of what any investment means for the development of this country. The rehabilitation of banks and the Slovenian state holding company are twins. A couple that will lead to bad solutions. You have had cheaper, more accessible, more transparent and technically feasible alternatives to improve the capital adequacy of banks, thereby restoring credibility to banks in international financial markets, allowing new borrowing of loans in the interbank market, thereby extending the maturity of loans to businesses and thus spilling over a variety of bad investments again among stable debtors. You've made the wrong choice. Not because it's smart, but because you want it. I will oppose the proposal for a law on bank stabilisation measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u344	Mr. Matjaz Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u345	Thank you very much. Respected and respected! Surely we all had one goal or two today. The first objective is to rehabilitate banks, and the second objective, which is very important for my notions, to eliminate the credit crunch. But the fact is, our two concepts are completely and fundamentally different. Now I'll tell you why. For these two purposes, you will spend substantially too much taxpayer money on my terms. First, you will spend 4 to 5 billion to issue a guarantee to transfer bad claims from banks to this company, and secondly, to eliminate the credit crunch, you will have to recapitalise banks with a billion euros. And you won't be able to avoid that. The second thing I'm going to say is, there's too much confusion in this marriage. If I stop only to evaluate these bad claims, as Mr Krušec has made clear, if they are too high, Europe will consider that if they are too low, we will have to recapitalise banks. And today we have signed a document, where we already know, at the start we will spend 5 billion taxpayers' money to pursue these two objectives. I think our concept is much easier, much better, but it is true that we don't have the right analysis, and it's just sadder that you don't have it and you rule. I'm going to argue with you in some way. But I fear for your economic policy, because we know that tomorrow you are adopting a law that will raise VAT on the media, and that the economy will be even more, I will say, in a way tighten that they will not be able to operate in some way. I think your economic policy is wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u346	The cycle of explanation will be concluded, I hope so, mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u347	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will all benefit if the promises of the bill's proponents are fulfilled. This will be known in one to two years. There is only a few interference with the extreme complete distribution, the diametric contrast between the applicants of legal solutions and all others: the opposition, the Bank of Slovenia, the Association of Banks of Slovenia, the professionally interested public. So far, it has been shown that great unanimity does not usually bring solutions that are beneficial to the majority but, rather, to the minority. I hope it's different this time. We can hope that this will not happen again almost 20 years ago, when the distribution of property certificates has brought only a handful of benefits to all citizens. Now we share our debts with citizens, and we only hope that it will not benefit a minority who knows how to work and who has enough information. Due to great unanimity and because I believe that such legislation must be adopted on a regular basis, but of course I have actively participated in the working group and in the discussions, I will remain active neutral and abstain from voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u348	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u349	Thank you. I am not a lawyer, but I do not think that a bad marriage can be fixed or turned into a good reality. I am also not sure that the centralisation of action and the new politicisation provide for significantly better action because I do not agree with the idea that the only government knows what is good for people. If that were the case, people would also give higher public support to the government. I can't forget, I can't help but feel the support is extremely low. Nor can I be satisfied with the fact that only one policy option knows what is good for people. And I would expect the profession, Banka Slovenije, experts who did not work for our client for any political or professional analysis, but we did what we quoted, at least for myself, read in public publications. That's why I find public publishing very valuable and the fact that VAT will be raised for the media is certainly not good for people and does not help [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u350	My colleagues, I'd like a minute of your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u351	to better information. [[...]] Now the coalition can protest as loudly as it wants, but I will not support the marriage. The law does not talk about the social impact, the direct effects on the economy, just read what the introduction of the law says, what development planning will be like — none of this. We should only believe that this will be a solution that will take effect immediately and that will be good for everyone. It will be for some. And those you certainly want to be right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-03-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u352	Mag. Maja Potter had her last word today. After exactly 9 hours of debate, we are moving to a vote on the Proposal for a Law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 9. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the law has been passed and I wish him a happy way to enter into force and to succeed in implementation. This concludes this item of the agenda and also the 6th meeting of the National Assembly. I inform the members and members of the Health Committee that in 10 minutes the 5th urgent meeting of the Health Committee will begin in Room 212.
