ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-14-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. It's 2:01 p.m., and we'll start the sessions right away. Can I have some peace, please? We continue the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I have invited candidates and candidates for Members and Members who have the right to replace the Member and Members who have taken over the functions of the Government and the representative of the State Election Commission to the 3rd item of the agenda. For today's meeting, I have not received any apologies from a Member or a Member, so we are complete. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 3. Agenda item — DETERMINATION OF CandidateS TO BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH 14. Members of the law on business performed the function of delegates instead of delegates who took over the government's functions. Because Mrs Ludmili Novak, Mr Franc Bogovic, Mr Zvonk Černač, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, Mr Vinko Gorenak, Mr Mag. Andre Visiak and Mr Magi. Mr Radovan Žerjav, appointed Minister and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, terminated the mandate of the Member and Members, the State Election Commission forwarded a decision to the National Assembly on which candidates and candidates have the right to replace the Member and Members who have served in the Government. The decision of the State Election Commission was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the working body of the State to report in writing to the Assembly and to submit a proposal for a decision. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like a word with the representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] Individual Members and Members? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus, which I will also do myself. I shall put to the vote the following motion for a decision: At a time when a Member and Members who have taken office in the Government cannot act as Members in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, they shall perform this function in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members from today the following Member and Members. Instead of Franca Bogovica Roman Žveglič, born 3. 4. 1964, resident of Stržiště 4, Zabukovje. Instead of Black Bell Patricia Szolin, born 25. 11. 1965, 48 Cankar Street, Nova Gorica. Instead of Karl Viktor Erjavac Marija Plevčak, born 25. 1. 1945, the resident Latkova village of 227, Latkova village. Instead of Dr. Vinka Gorenaka Ivan Pišek, born 7. 4. 1965, living in Goldilocks 105, Goldilocks. Instead of Ludmila Novak Janez Vasle, born 27. 5. 1944, living at 16 Gregorčičev, Domžale. Instead of mags. Andrej the Visionary Mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek, born 28. 5. 1966, residing on Ship 2, Radeče. Instead of mags. Happy Zeriva Jasmina Opec, born 2. 8. 1985, Living Lake 22, Rakičan. We will now vote on the proposal for this Decision. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. The vote was 79, against 1. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Is there a problem with the voting device? Too late. The decision is adopted. We cannot repeat the vote, but it is clear that you wanted to say your will positively. My fellow Members and colleagues are invited to join us. [[Applause]] I want colleagues and colleagues to do their job successfully and congratulations to all of you! I hereby conclude this agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-14-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u2	Dear fellows and fellows! We're moving to four. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Secretary-General of the State. On the basis of the second paragraph of Article 25 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a proposal for a decision was submitted to the Assembly by the College of the President of the National Assembly, which proposes that the Assembly for the Secretary-General of the General Assembly appoint Ms Mojco Prelešnik. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the President of the National Assembly, Dr Gregor Virant. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-14-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u3	Dear colleagues and colleagues! For the Secretary-General, I propose Mojca Prelešnik, a university-graduate lawyer, with a judicial examination, which he also performs in the last term from 2008 to 2011. The candidate has a successful legal career, and then a successful career in the state administration. Before the appointment of the Secretary-General, she was the Deputy Information Officer. In the last term, she carried out her work professionally and efficiently and I have full confidence in her that this work will be done in the same way in the future. With the exchange of power, I believe it is good to adhere to the principle that people in key places in public administration do not change automatically. The fact that someone has worked well with the former authorities cannot be a negative reference, but rather a positive reference, and I see it this way. The fact that someone has worked well with the previous President of the National Assembly, with my predecessor, is not a negative one for me, but a positive reference. Even when I was Secretary of State and Minister, I always followed this rule in my practice of choosing my associates, and I didn't look at political affiliation or anything like the criteria of choice, and it worked out for me. The results were always good when I did so. But I've always done it. The criteria for selecting co-workers in public administration must be competence and motivation for good work in the direction of the objectives set or, if you wish, also the relation of views to the objectives of the organisation, but of course also confidence. It's good that there's also some kind of personality match, some kind of chemistry, as we say. This creates a positive climate, which then produces good results. My candidate meets all these conditions, she's capable, professional, competent and motivated. Before our joint decision on the candidacy, we discussed each other thoroughly and came to the conclusion that we have a very similar view of the leadership of the National Assembly and the functioning of the services of the National Assembly. Allow me to give you a brief introduction to this view. You can also see him as some kind of president's programme for this mandate. What's going to be at the forefront? Simplification of internal procedures, procedures in the National Assembly and removal of administrative barriers, bureaucratic barriers because they still exist. Promoting e-commerce, which should be as user-friendly as possible, with an ambitious goal if you support the leadership of the National Assembly in this regard, in order to reach a completely paperless operation in the National Assembly in this mandate. High level of response of problem-solving services. Whenever a member group has any problem that services can solve, and this applies to external users, the services must be responsive, they must immediately find a solution to the problem and not find reasons for not doing anything, but looking for ways to do something as quickly as possible. The openness and transparency of the work of the National Assembly. This has also proved to be true in practice at these first few, I would say, more interesting meetings during the mandate vote and so on, when the media regime was fairly liberal and it turned out to be good. We had a deal, we stuck to it on our side, they stuck to it on the press side, and things went well. Rationalization. The National Assembly, like the Government, will have to demonstrate by its own example that there is much to be saved in the public sector. In the National Assembly, savings cannot be very high, because the budget of the National Assembly is not very large, but it is symbolic and exemplary, for example, travel abroad and so on. Order and legality without any exception. The equality of all parliamentary groups and Members, i.e. the neutrality of the leadership and the services of the National Assembly. Maybe that's all there is to it. Like my candidate, the Secretary-General before her, Mr Lovro Lončar, did an excellent job. At the 1st meeting of the Government, he was appointed Secretary of State in the Cabinet of the President of the Government and will be responsible, inter alia, for communication between the Government and the National Assembly. So we're going to have two great professionals take care of this contact, so I have no doubt that things are going to go smoothly. I'm asking you to support my candidate Mojiko Prelešnik. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-14-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u4	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-14-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u5	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, welcome! This morning, we met with a candidate for Secretary General and talked. We asked her a number of questions, including unpleasant questions. I must say that this meeting was a high-quality, fruitful meeting and that, on the basis of this meeting, we have also decided to vote for the Secretary-General. On this occasion, I would like to mention the following. When the last College held a debate on when the Secretary-General's election should be held, some of the leaders of the parliamentary groups proposed that these elections should take place after the presentation. This seems kind of meaningful and right, and that's what we've achieved, and I think that's right. On the basis of these interviews, we have made the decision we have made. One last comment. I wouldn't want a big story to come out of this. Immediately after the College, we were able to read in the media how the first cracks appear in the new government coalition, how the new government coalition is not harmonised with respect to the secretary-general. I would just say that, big stories here won't be, but you have to give us a chance to discuss things, talk about things, and agree.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-14-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the positive Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-14-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u7	President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The position of Positive Slovenia towards the Secretary-General is positive and that is why we will support it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-14-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-14-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u9	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! We believe that it is the responsibility of the President of the National Assembly to choose the closest co-worker and that we are offered the opportunity to have a conversation with both the President of the National Assembly and the candidate. On Friday we had a discussion where we received some more information, and above all we had the opportunity to share our views on the work of the National Assembly and, above all, the leadership of the National Assembly. We are aware that the organisation of the work of the National Assembly is difficult and that Parliament is closely monitored in the public eye and, above all, critical. We also want to contribute constructively to the functioning of the National Assembly and thus to Parliament's greater reputation in order to inform each other in particular of the projects that we want to address before they actually begin. With these assurances, we can see that Parliament's work could run even better, and our decision is to support the appointment of the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, Mrs Mojce Prelesnik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-14-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Braniselj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-14-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u11	Dear Vice President, colleagues, colleagues! The Secretary-General of the National Assembly shall manage the services of the National Assembly and shall carry out other matters laid down by the rules. The services of the National Assembly shall carry out professional, administrative and other tasks, as well as technical tasks, which shall provide the conditions for the work of the National Assembly. The Secretary-General shall be appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the College of the National Assembly for the duration of the term of office of the National Assembly, to which the Secretary-General shall also be responsible. The Citizens' List will support Ms Mojco Prelešnik, the proposed candidate, for several important reasons such as professionalism, political independence and references. The candidate is a university-graduate lawyer with a legal examination, and she has worked for almost ten years as a lawyer and a lawyer, which means more than a guarantee for her professionalism, but also the necessary work experience in the private sector. It is undeniable that the candidate has been a good secretary-general for the past three years. The coming mandate will also be extremely difficult for the employees of the National Assembly, so it will be necessary to be decisive in carrying out measures that will certainly not be dealt with by the services of the National Assembly and that measures will be prepared and implemented professionally and legally correctly. The appointment of a candidate will ensure continuity in the management of the services of the National Assembly, without any disturbance in the functioning of the services of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-14-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-14-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u13	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a decision appointing the Secretary-General of the National Assembly. The proposal by the President of the National Assembly to propose Ms Mojca Prelešnik, MEP and Member of the DeSUS Group as Secretary-General of the National Assembly was not exactly surprising. At the meeting of the College, the latter further explained his proposal and is still firmly behind his arguments today. Although certain concerns were raised in this move by the President of the National Assembly, they did not go in the direction of professionalism, preferences and quality of the work of the candidate, but referred to the inappropriateness of the proposal itself. The wishes of several parliamentary groups were expressed for the candidate to be personally represented in the parliamentary groups. I must say that our Group has also expressed this wish, so both of you, Mrs Mojca Prelesnik and the President of the National Assembly, have met with us, both of us, to discuss what led to the conclusion of our Group, that the proposed candidate is suitable for the Secretary-General of the National Assembly. Not only on professional grounds, but also on its own experience, since in the previous term it successfully led the operation and organisation of many services of the National Assembly. In the Group of Members, we trust the election of the President of the National Assembly. After all, it is his closest co-worker, and we believe that he is on his side to choose a trustworthy person for the quality of his work, for which he, after all, guarantees himself. The candidate for Secretary-General will also receive our unanimous support. In view of the previous views of the other parliamentary groups, we can assume that the candidate for Secretary-General of the National Assembly will be confirmed today, so on behalf of Members and Members of the DeSUS Group, I should like to congratulate her in advance and wish her a successful work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-02-14-SDZ6-Izredna-07.ana.u14	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I have no proposal for a debate between Members and Members. However, I ask the proposaler, Dr Gregor Virant, whether he wishes to further explain his proposal. You don't want to. This concludes the debate and brings us to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of Mrs Mojce Prelešnik as Secretary-General of the National Assembly. We're starting the vote. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 2. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I congratulate the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, wherever she listens, and wish her a successful job. / applause/ I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
