ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I begin the 22nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Melita Zupevc, mag. Dejan Židan, Borut Pahor, Roman Jakič and Richard Braniselj. I also invited government representatives to the meeting. Nicely greeted! I salute you all very much! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 22nd extraordinary meeting. You received your daily proposal on Thursday, 22 November 2012, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the proposal in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have not received any proposals for an extension of the agenda, so I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda be set, as you have received by reference. We will now vote on the agenda, so please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting on the agenda. There are 44 Members and Members present. Can we re-vote? Be careful, please. We're voting on the agenda. There are 46 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 22nd extraordinary session has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, that is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on amendments to the Act on Income. The draft law was tabled by the Government and I now give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Janez Šuštersič, for an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members, Mr President! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act introduces some important changes especially for the economy, introducing the possibility of so-called flat-rate taxation. It is a matter of determining the tax liability on the basis of standardised costs if the debtors choose to do so voluntarily and if they do not have more than EUR 50 000 per year. We propose that standardised costs of 70% of turnover be recognised and that, in different ways, a tax assessment of 20% is made as a final tax for persons performing activities and for independent entrepreneurs. Here, for the first time, is a certain reduction in the tax burden for most of the taxpayers. Today, as you know, this difference or their income is taxed on a progressive rate of income. Another matter that may be even more important is administrative simplification. Much less records will have to be kept. And it is also about increasing the certainty of the tax liability. When this tax, which is cedular, is settled once, it is complete and there is no longer any possibility of finding out any additional obligation, as opposed to the situation that is today. We create a simpler, more predictable and tax-enhancing environment for small debtors; for people who perform an activity either alone or as independent entrepreneurs or self-employed. Other changes that are still in law represent the changes that have been proposed recently. In the area of volunteering, we are expanding or making more friendly provisions and reducing certain benefits, especially for student work. The last proposal with the amendment is to reduce it by a quarter – this is also confirmed by the committee. We have withdrawn the proposal to eliminate the possibility of facilitating cross-border labour migrants because this relief is currently under constitutional review, because the representatives of the debtors have also made different proposals on how to deal with this. We will wait for the decision of the Constitutional Court and to consider these other options and then, if necessary, propose some changes in this area next year. What is also important is that this law also includes income from renting of assets among income taxed on cheddar taxes. This rate, as you know, is 25%. It is a new system regime, since all other incomes from capital, i.e. non-working incomes, are already taxed in the current income system by so-called cedular taxation. In view of the fact that income from the rental of capital and not labour income is also income, we propose that this income be classified or taxed in the same way as other income from capital. With these amendments, which I have already mentioned in the introduction on the basis of the Government's original proposal, the draft law has also received support from the Committee on Finance. I think that, in particular, flat-rate taxation is something that has been generally accepted as something positive, and that is why the Government proposes that we take advantage of business options today, in the context of this meeting and together with another, we also have a third reading of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u3	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body and I give the floor to Mrs Patrice Šulin to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u4	President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! At its 38th emergency meeting, on 27 November this year, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. On the basis of Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a general discussion was held at the 20th ordinary meeting on 15 November this year and adopted the conclusion that the draft law was appropriate for further consideration. The representative of the proposal, Minister Janez Šuštersič, highlighted in the supplementary explanation of the bill the change in the definition of the tax base from the income of natural persons engaged in the activity, taking into account the standardised expenditure. A higher limit is set for operating revenue, which is defined as a condition for entry into the standardised expenditure system, amounting to EUR 50 000. In addition, the amount of standardised expenditure shall be raised to 70 % of the tax revenue recognised. He further stressed that the proposal for a law eliminates systemic inconsistencies in the law in force, including income from renting. In determining the tax base, a standard cost of 10 % will be recognised, or the actual cost of maintaining the property that retains the usable value of the property if it is paid by the taxable person himself at the time of the lease. With regard to the proposal to abolish relief for cross-border migrants, he stressed that the applicant supported the proposed withdrawal amendment. With regard to the proposed reduction in tax relief for student work by 50%, however, he supported the compromise proposal and the amendment, which reduces this relief by just a quarter. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Andreja Kurent, pointed out that, with regard to the comments made in the Opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the proposed amendments to the coalition groups were largely clarified, and certain shortcomings were also addressed by the proposed amendments to the coalition groups. The debate on Article 15 was based on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, which opposes the proposal that the standardised costs of the taxation of rent income should be reduced from 40 % to 10 %. The amendment applicants proposed a reverse solution to recognise standardised costs of 60% when determining the tax base. An amendment to Article 35 was also tabled in connection with this amendment, which proposed progressive taxation on the basis of which taxable persons would be liable to incomes which give less real estate are taxed effectively less than those who generate higher incomes than real estate. The fear of both amendments was stressed that, while the proposed solutions were maintained in both sections of the bill, the share of the issue of property would be increased to black and the costs of the higher tax would be passed on to the tenants. With regard to Article 25, the opposition of the Positive Slovenia Group to the proposed reduction of the tax base for student income was expressed, as the student work, in their view, represents an important social adjustment, and the proposal for a law constitutes an equalisation of the student work with the contract. With regard to the proposed abolition of the tax relief for cross-border migrants, however, in Article 25 of the draft law, the majority of the members of the Committee were of the opinion that this relief should be maintained in accordance with the adoption of the appropriate amendment. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 4, 10, 12, 19, 21, 25, 31, 35 and 39 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Slovenian People's Party, DeSUS and New Slovenia by Articles 25, 27 and 29; SD Group by Members Gaspar Gaspar Mišić and Branka Ficka by Article 25. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the SD Group to Articles 15 and 35 and the Polish Positive Slovenia Group to Article 25. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the draft law together and adopted them. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u5	We deal with the law on a regular basis. We have already held a general debate at the 20th extraordinary meeting on the proposal for a law, and it is therefore not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups today. We do not have any amendments to the amended bill, so I am concluding a second reading of the bill. However, the vote on the bill will be held in the framework of Friday's vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. The proposal was tabled by the Government, so I give the floor to Minister Šuštersič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u6	Your Honor! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, as I explained earlier in the case of income, introduces a system of flat-rate taxation – for small enterprises in the same way as for income, the condition is that they do not have more than EUR 50 000 per year – and the determination of the tax base with standardised costs, 70% of the standard costs. The difference is in the tax rate because the tax rate applied here is the same as the corporate income tax. This year's 18, next year's 17, 16 and 15. This bill also reduces the possibility of using the benefit or transfer of losses from previous years in the coming years, this right reduces to half the profits found in the current year. It's not that we want to put extra pressure on businesses, but it's that everyone who generates profit will pay at least a little tax on that profit. It will be possible to reduce the base by half if it has created a loss in the previous year. It will also be able to enforce this loss in the coming years, but in no year more than half of that tax base, i.e. the profits that will be found in that year. This reduces one of the benefits that we still leave to a significant extent, but it will still help businesses at a time when they start doing a positive business. Given that the financial impact of such a relief can be around 25 million, we have estimated that, in view of the other benefits that we have already given to this tax this year – we have reduced the rate, as I mentioned earlier, to increase the incentives for investing in research and development for investment – so that we can reduce this benefit here. This gives us a system that is generally more favourable because it is a lower rate and encourages, in particular with targeted incentives, those companies that actually invest in investment, research and development. In view of the progress of the Committee's proceedings, we also propose that a third hearing be held at the same time as the second one at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u7	The draft law was examined by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. For the presentation of the report, I give the word mag. Damjani Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u8	Hello, everyone! How nice to welcome the president, the Minister of Finance and the representatives of the Ministry of Finance! Dear Members and Members! At its 38th urgent meeting, on 27 November, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax. In addition to the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Commission of the National Council for Tourism, Crafts and Finance, the Committee also took note of the proposals for amendments to the coalition groups and the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats. The legislative and legal service examined the proposal within its competence and made specific comments. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also stated, in a brief summary of these remarks in writing, that the amendments of the coalition parties follow the comments made. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the Finance Minister highlighted the introduction of a flat-rate taxation system by identifying tax expenditure on the basis of standardised expenditure, which allows small taxpayers to form a tax base with a standardised expenditure of 70 % of the declared turnover by applying the level of the prescribed tax on a different basis, which at the same time represents a substantial simplification of the procedure. At the time of consideration of the individual articles, support was also expressed in the text, with the explicit emphasis of appropriate prior coordination with the institutions concerned, both with the Chamber of Commerce and with the Chamber of Accounting Services. The discussion below opened with regard to the enforcement of past years' losses in the consideration of Article 3 of the proposal, namely the proposal of the Social Democrats to delete paragraph 2 of this Article. At the same time, the Minister of Finance stressed that the proposal clearly pursues targeted, stimulating, economic orientations. In conclusion, the answer to the question raised regarding the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce concerning the imposition of flat-rate solutions, taking into account the Committee's standard expenditure, has also explained that the latter constitute a legal novelty, which makes it difficult to predict financial effects at the time of the introduction. At the same time, they do not focus on the diversity of individual industries, legal solutions need to be introduced systematically and uniformly. It is only on the basis of the conclusion of the implementation of the solutions in practice, after answering the question whether the current proposal is sufficiently stimulating, that it is possible to approach appropriate adjustments or to improve this newly introduced system. The Committee adopted amendments to articles 5 and 7 of the legislative proposal by the coalition groups. The amendment of the Social Democrats' Group in Article 3 of the legislative proposal was not adopted by the Committee. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the legislative proposal together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law as an integral part of the report of the Committee was prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u9	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with co-workers, I wish everyone a good day! The financial crisis and the euro crisis in our country are causing a difficult economic situation and a developmental stalemate. The government is also trying to boost economic growth through tax policy measures. Tax measures are an important part of a comprehensive set of measures to boost economic growth. The National Assembly has already adopted tax measures to relieve the economy, a gradual reduction in the general rate of corporate income taxation and a strong increase in tax relief for those who invest in research and development. The objectives of the draft law are based on the Treaty for Slovenia 2012-2015, which stated that economic policy measures will ensure the conditions for relaunching the economy in the country. Tax measures represent an important part of economic policy action. These objectives are also to be achieved through some of the proposed measures in this proposal for a law. The law introduces a new institution, which is aimed primarily at quick and easy compliance with the tax obligations of smaller taxpayers. The taxpayers will be able to determine the tax base by taking into account standardised expenditure. This means simplifying and consequently reducing the administrative burden on the fulfilment of the tax liability, thereby increasing the legal security of taxable persons with regard to the determination of the tax base. For a specific set of low-income debtors, this objective will be reflected in simplifications in the management and provision of records of tax-recognised expenditure and in greater certainty the amount of tax-recognised expenditure. We are introducing a flat-rate taxation system, which means that taxpayers with annual turnover of less than EUR 50 000 are allowed to voluntarily decide on a flat-rate mode or to establish a tax base with a standardised expenditure of 70% of turnover. In the New Slovenia Group, we estimate that, in addition to some of the other innovations brought by this new Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, a voluntary decision on flat-rate taxation is an essential novelty brought by the novelty of the law and we favor it. Whether the amount of revenue that still allows a flat-rate mode of taxation, set at EUR 50 000, will be optimal, will show the analysis that will enable us to decide in the future on any change in the income ceiling. The new law will be supported by the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u11	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Aloj Potočnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u12	Your Honor! The consideration of the bill is closely linked to the Income Act – through flatlists – due to its content. As regards the procedure, however, it is linked to the law which we will deal with later and which regulates the tax procedure. In Positive Slovenia, up to all three laws, we do not have any more serious reservations to the whole package and we will support them. The applicable Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons does not apply as a bad person, nor as a perfect one. This, after all, shows frequent change. The situation and views and tax policies are changing. This year we have already addressed reduced tax rates and reliefs. Interested, in particular, the economic or entrepreneurship public is in agreement to allow small entrepreneurs, that is to say, small taxpayers with low tax revenues, to be able to charge and pay taxes in a simplified manner. Thus, a ceiling of EUR 50 000 is set for entry into the flat-rate system, which is still to be determined in accordance with accounting rules. The tax base shall be determined on the basis of tax-recognised revenue and standardised expenditure of 70% and revenue. Among the possible ways in which the so-called flat-rate taxation is applied, the government, as a proponent, decided on a simple, almost elegant model. The undertakings are companies governed by the law governing the company, with very few exceptions. The entry is optional, the decision is taken by the debtor, the income threshold is one and one is the amount of standardised expenditure. Such a system, if translated into an idealised form, works both in terms of direct costs of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and, more importantly, in terms of indirect costs of taxpayers as good and important. So we will have a non-excessive service of legal advice, accounting, inforamtics and paperwork. So much for good intentions. The problem is, and this is also a serious thought, in the glue of this consistency, in tax culture. If this does not work, they have, and may have, a common problem with the Minister of Finance and the Director-General of the Tax Administration. It will be called tax revenue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u13	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u14	Hello again, all present! The government is trying to take various measures, including fiscal policy measures, to encourage economic growth of small, micro- and small enterprises, which is a priority in Slovenia, and to ensure healthy sustainable development. In 2012, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, had already approved tax measures to relieve the economy, namely a reduction in the general rate of corporate income taxation and an increase in tax relief for the debtors under this law. These measures will reduce corporate tax revenues in the short term. Since the financial crisis and the euro crisis in the Republic of Slovenia are putting great pressure on public finances and as the budget revenue will be further reduced as a result of these tax burdens, some measures should also be taken to ensure greater predictability of the revenue of the budget for corporate tax purposes. This is followed by a proposal to restrict the use of tax losses from past tax periods up to 50% of the tax base of the tax period. Another measure of this law is taxation on the source of payments for services, which provides a clear and clear definition of income which has a source in Slovenia. This is a tax avoidance measure. The third most important measure, however, is the possibility of identifying the tax base by taking into account the standard costs. The taxpayers, who will determine the tax base by taking into account the standard costs or expenditure, will see tax revenues as so far, that is, on the basis of the principle of the occurrence of a business event and taking into account the specific rules laid down by this law. The taxpayers will not identify tax-recognised actual expenditure, but will only deduct the amount of standardised expenditure of 70% from the revenue generated in the determination of the tax base. This will enable the debtors to self-account in the form and under a simplified existing form for the calculation of corporate income tax. However, these debtors will not be able to impose relief. The tasks of the State in respect of the accounting and payment of taxes and resulting controls will be carried out by the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. With the introduction of a new tax base system, taking into account standardised expenditure, a specific group of taxpayers will have an additional possibility or way of providing a tax base. In this case, the implementation of the new system will actually simplify the way in which these taxpayers are subject to tax control, as DURS will review the business of the debtors only in terms of income and not expenditure, which means easier and faster tax controls. In addition, the application of the rules on entry into the tax base system by taking into account standardised expenditure introduces simple administration with regard to the exercise of the right to determine the tax base by taking into account standardised expenditure. The taxpayers wishing to identify the tax base by taking into account the standard expenditure will be obliged to notify this, not being obliged to file an application to extend the method of determining the tax base by disregarding the standard expenditure for each period, but to assume that they would want to identify their tax base in advance also if they do not provide a notice of termination of the determination of the tax base in such a way. The latter is a simple administrative solution for the taxpayers in the tax base system, taking into account standardised expenditure. These changes follow the coalition contractual commitments towards a more favourable tax and business environment for micro and small taxpayers, and we propose that this amendment be read by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u15	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code, Mr Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, and a very nice greeting to everyone! Members of the Civil Code will be happy to support this law. We are pleased to be able to propose some law that will have a positive impact on our entrepreneurship on our economy at some point. Many times we feel that we are not doing enough in this area. Something has happened in this area so far, as has been said. We have reduced the general level of tax, introduced possible tax write-offs for investment, for smaller economic debtors, these are espies, we are correcting the Income Act. I think that times for small entrepreneurs or espouses will significantly improve with this possibility of flat-rate taxation. When we talk about how difficult and excruciating he was for a business deal and a conversation with tax inspectors who visited them, how they agreed on which costs were recognised, whether we recognised so much representation, or whether we had all the travel tasks written for the daily routes. I think that the tax inspection and the service will also be able to relax, but above all they will be able to relent to anyone who will be able to understand in advance what the tax will be like in these cases, there will be no specific records. I think they're going to save a lot of money with this, especially this nervous war, when they never knew what their taxation would be in the end. However, in terms of turnover and classification, it is clear what the tax base is and what the expected tax of this base is, and I think it would probably be good that this amount, which allows flat-rate taxation, would be increased by a thousand Euros in order to include more of these independent entrepreneurs. I think that this will have a very positive impact on smaller entrepreneurship in our country. In addition to what I have said, we are also discussing the law that membership in craftsmen will no longer be compulsory, but voluntary, and a whole range of other things, so we have done something. We hope that this will also be known in the new boom of the small economy. We will be happy to support this proposal in the Citizens' List. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u17	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Roman Zveglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u18	Your Honor! Good day to you all! In the Slovenian People's Party, we welcome the direction of such legislation. Its purpose is not to grant additional tax incentives and benefits, but to simplify tax procedures. It should therefore be understood that there is not much room for manoeuvre when setting the threshold for standardised costs. Reducing the accounting administration is one of the most important requirements of the small economy. The only solution that concerns us in the Slovenian People's Party is a low limit to entering the system to EUR 50,000. According to the Ministry, this restriction covers about 50% of all legal entities, which sounds great, but it is estimated that this low threshold will only be favourable for about a thousand small businesses. The biggest benefit for low-cost companies is that there is little investment, i.e. tax-recognised expenditure of less than 70%. It's about companies with one, not more than two employees. The Coalition Treaty mentions flat-rate taxation for micro-enterprises. The extract from the recommendations of the European Commission in 2003 defines a micro-enterprise as having less than 10 employees and having annual turnover and/or a balance sheet amount not exceeding EUR 2 million. This is a high number, as in Slovenia we already consider the middle-sized enterprises. However, the limit of €50,000 of revenue leaves out the healthiest part of the Slovenian economy – companies that have ambitions to expand, which have good foundations to invest, to employ. We encourage only some initial activities within one employee, counselling, intellectual services, lectures, design matters and so on. Is this really a group that needs further encouragement in these times? All other entrepreneurs, i.e. commercial activity, carriers, the vast majority of catering and other services will not be subject to such taxation, as they will remain in the current regime as a result of tax-recognised costs higher than 70 % of their revenues. Most, however, because of the nature of the business, exceed the limit of EUR 50,000 in one way or another. We certainly do not encourage new employees by this law because, for any additional employment based on higher incomes, business entities will fall out of the scope of the flat-rate taxation system. Taking into account the possibility of choosing a tax base system, the figure is that this tax will be practically interesting for a very small number of companies. According to the Ministry of Finance estimate, less than 2% of all those who carry out a profitable activity. We can recall that the neighbouring Austria has a threshold of €220,000, and Hungary has a border for a simplified corporate tax for legal persons of around €90,000, Romania has €100,000, and around this figure Latvia, while the Czech Republic has a slightly more complex version on average about €200,000. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will vote in favour of the adoption of this law, but after its entry into force we expect an analysis of the new state of affairs and if we will also need to make corrections, because this is one of the most important measures to promote small entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u19	On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs. Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! Let me start by expressing my support for the DeSUS Group for this bill. We agree with the regulation of flat-rate taxation. This will certainly contribute to facilitating the business of legal persons in terms of reducing administrative work for those who have up to €50,000 per year. Each entrepreneur will thus be able to decide whether or not to benefit from this flat-rate taxation. Of course, we have also had doubts in our Group of Members about such arrangements. First of all, in terms of whether this 50 000 euro limit may be too high. We have come from the fact that many entrepreneurs will be able to do much better by choosing flat-rate taxation, as far as the tax is concerned. He'll be able to calculate for himself what's worth more. Undoubtedly, such taxation will be most beneficial for those who do not have high costs for their business, as the proposal raises the amount of standardised expenditure from the current 25% to 70. In particular, flat-rate taxation will be of interest to those undertakings and entrepreneurs with a small scope of business which do not intend to expand and generate higher profits with minimum operating costs, do not have any costs related to the purchase of fixed assets, investment costs, research and development, and labour costs. That's what they say they do most of the time on their own. These are, in particular, companies and entrepreneurs offering intellectual services, various counselling services, as an entrepreneur only needs a computer and an internet connection. On the contrary, such a decision is unlikely to be decided by those entrepreneurs whose management is linked to high costs, such as the purchase of material, the automotive industry, the production of various appliances, and construction. As a rule, they have even higher costs than they could apply with the flat-rate, so they will not choose to do so. However, after a certain period of application of this law, the results will have to be verified and the level of the flat-rate may be changed. It is also positive and certainly valuable to support the creation of the possibility of donating funds for generally beneficial purposes that can be invoked as a tax relief. The proposal for a law and a system for introducing flat-rate taxation, which is also subject to the income law, is acceptable to us and will be supported by the party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u21	Thank you. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 29 November 2012. I'm sorry, we don't have any amendments to this law. However, we will vote tomorrow, 15 minutes after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to the next point, where we're going to have the amendments, 3. POINTS OF THE DAY, THIS IS A PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE Tax PROCEDURE LEGISLATION, ANOTHER REFERENCE. For further reasons, I give the floor to Dr. Šuštersič, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u22	Your Honor! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act, in addition to regulating certain things arising from European directives, introduces at least two important innovations aimed at reducing tax evasion. Firstly, it is a regulation that provides that those who have cash registers should use computer programs that do not allow the deletion of source data, i.e. the editing of records, with appropriate supervision, which is still ongoing today as regards the issue, and then the recording of invoices issued. This is a step towards reducing evasion or avoiding taxes in cash transactions. The second, perhaps even more important, news, which has also been discussed, is the instruction or authority of the Tax Administration and the Customs Administration to publish a name list of major taxpayers with the name of the company or person who is the taxable person. This is a measure already taken by several European countries in order to encourage those who are committed to regular payment of obligations and to ensure that obligations are settled. Such a measure is always a matter of debate. There is some danger, particularly in the sense that someone has been published needlessly, sometimes even unjustifiablely, for example, if there is no tax debt in fact but is recorded and can lead to stigmatisation of certain debtors. We avoided this in the bill with some important restrictions or conditions. The most important thing is to publish only those debtors whose tax debt exceeds EUR 5,000 and in which such debt exists for at least 90 days. This is a longer period of non-payment of an important part of tax liabilities. At that time, 90 days each has the opportunity to determine that this debt exists, this debt is also settled, or, if a business is in difficulty, to agree on a delay or a partial payment of the debt per step. This prevented the possibility of unjustified publications, making the lists shorter and more important debtors. One more thing is important. The first such list will be published within the fourth month following the entry into force of the law, which means that from the time of the adoption of the law, the 90-day period in which a debtor has to be held in order for his or her company to be published on the list. During this time, it will be possible to prepare all technical solutions for such publication. These are kind of major changes in this law and since not many amendments have been tabled here too, we propose that the third hearing be held at the same meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u23	The draft law was examined by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, mag. Mr Shirtz to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u24	Thank you very much, distinguished Mr President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! As already mentioned, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act. The law, like the other laws, was submitted to the committee by the Government. At the meeting, the Minister of Finance explained in the introductory explanatory memorandum that, in addition to aligning the legal text with the European acquis, two important substantive amendments were proposed. The first is the publication of a significant list of taxpayers whose tax debt exceeds EUR 5 000 for at least 90 days and those debtors will be published on the website of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia or the website of the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. This aims to encourage voluntary payment of taxes and to contribute to the reduction of the grey economy. In addition, another important solution has been considered, namely the prohibition of the use of computer programs or other electronic devices that allow the deletion, correction or modification of the original record without storing the original data. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to the comments made by the Service in its written opinion on compliance with the rule of law referred to in Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and commented on Articles 5, 7, 10, 50b, 83 and 96a. In the debate, members of the Committee generally welcomed such solutions and different opinions were expressed on individual solutions and issues in this area. That's how it's about publishing the name list. This was mainly the case with regard to the limitation of the amount, which is EUR 5,000, and the length of the debt, which is 90 days, and the issue of stigmatising taxpayers due to minor infringements of tax legislation was raised. It was pointed out that the problems related to the publication of the nominee list of taxpayers, including with regard to the protection of tax confidentiality. In addition, possible abuses and, of course, appropriate controls were noted. With regard to the prevention of the grey economy, the possibility of introducing tax warehouses, although not addressed by this law, and also the effectiveness of the public disclosure measure for taxpayers was highlighted. In any event, the Committee also expressed the need for stricter rules in the field of tax evasion. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted amendments to the coalition groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he drew up the text of the amended law, which included the amendments adopted. The amended bill is also an integral part of this report. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u25	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia has the floor of Mr Alojzij Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u26	Thank you. Your Honor! A relatively interesting, perhaps even important law, unfortunately followed the practice of such laws in this National Assembly. It is accompanied by a wide-ranging, highly critical opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and an even more extensive amendment of articles. While the law lays down in graves the procedural solutions necessary to establish a new way of determining the tax base of so-called flat-rates; provides for mutual assistance in taxation between the Member States of the European Union; it is provided that no computer programmes or electronic devices may be used to delete original records without their advance storage; it is proposed that the tax and customs administration, which keeps a record of debtors in respect of the payment of public financial obligations, should authorise them to publish periodically on their websites a list of all taxable persons whose tax debt exceeds EUR 5,000, but only if the debtor owes public taxes for at least 90 days. At least three of the four tasks listed are delicate and provocative, challenging to our situation, both for the taxpayers and for the tax administration they will carry out. They will have a rapid turnout in the public eye, and this is, after all, the aim of the proposer. The interest in disclosure of tax confidentiality – I am talking about a list of debtors – will be over the interest in safeguarding tax confidentiality. Through the lever of public pressure, not only will it strengthen or help to strengthen tax culture. Let me ask you a few questions. At the beginning of the journey, of course, there is a lot of enthusiasm and enthusiasm, and problems arise. For example, what about those who are outside the system that are in the grey economy and who are said to be – some debate has already been about this – one quarter? What will happen now with significant neighborly assistance and legal ignorance, and by referring inspectors to some advice from some accountants who are doing it in an arbitrary afternoon and so on. I could still list the problems. And with regard to institutions. You still remember the article in the same law that we are considering today, in the Law on the Tax Procedure, which is its own time, not far from that, a few years ago, provided that taxpayers, that is to say, inform us every year, and the date was supposedly 31 August, about our obligations and claims relating to tax duties. In the performance, the idea went all the way down the line and went quietly to the history dump. It's a long list, and I could keep going. Let me add one more not entirely verifiable and good news. The British tax administration has made the most of the decisions to co-finance a cult strut Only fools and horses. Not that way – but we will support the law, including the amendments you received on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u27	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u28	Thank you very much again, Mr President! Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support amendments to the Tax Procedure Act. This is a procedural law under which taxpayers must be treated. We believe that there are quite a few positive things in this law, both for the tax administration and for the taxpayers, and for the improvement of the tax culture in Slovenia. One of the important news is the publication of debtors or taxpayers who will not pay the tax. If this amount exceeds EUR 5,000 and if the period in which the tax was not paid is longer than 90 days, then these taxpayers will be published on public websites. I do not think that any entrepreneur, any entrepreneur who is seriously involved in the market, is interested in coming to this list, as this list will also result in other entrepreneurs, other undertakings having large restrictions and will require additional insurance to deal with such a taxable person. After all, such a taxable person will in some way be able to get himself out of the market and this will mean more order in the market, including in the payment of obligations, which will have a long-term impact on the liquidity of the economy itself. In addition, procedural solutions for so-called flatlists are regulated in this law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we welcome the flat-rate tax solutions, which means that those taxpayers who have turnover of less than 50,000 euros will be able to determine their tax base on the basis of standardised expenditure. This means lower costs or lower costs for them in the preparation of tax accounts. This will mean, for those least, that they will be easier to start their business on the market and that they will also succeed. But the question is, is this amount 50 grand the right amount? Given that the Government will continue to examine and analyse this amount and find it too small, it will also be able to make appropriate changes. After all, this law means that it cooperates in depth with the tax authorities of the European Union and also the possibility that tax fraud in the European Union itself will be reduced and that there will be more order in this market, especially if we point out so-called tax whirls. It is also important for taxable persons to have a provision that allows for the correction of the tax bill in cases where a formal error is a matter of making a mistake when the taxable person is prevented from making an administrative error. In such cases, the Tax Administration will ensure that the taxpayers do not correct this and that this does not happen, as is the case with practice now, that it has to repeat the entire investment of all documents, all records, all tax accounts, but it will be done in a simpler way. That is why this law, in particular the Tax Procedure Act, is important both for taxpayers and for the Tax Administration, and for all of us, especially if this law reduces the grey economy by at least a few percent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u29	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, all present! Social Democrats will not oppose amendments to the Tax Procedure Act, as this law provides for the imposition of flat-rate taxation on independent entrepreneurs and businesses. However, on the basis of the trade union requirement, the law proposes solutions to authorize DURS and CURS, which keep records of debtors with regard to the payment of public financial obligations, to publish periodically on their websites a list of all taxpayers whose tax debt exceeds EUR 5 000, but only if the debtor owes public benefits for at least 90 days. This includes persons with a significant debt to public cash registers who do not pay taxes for a certain period of time, while not listing persons who rarely miss the payment of taxes or for a few days, since it is, of course, mostly linked to the shorter liquidity problems of taxable persons. This eliminates the risk of stigmatising taxpayers due to minor infringements of tax legislation. Those taxable persons who are unable to pay the tax for justified reasons, and who are objective, which they themselves have not been able to influence, the existing legislation allows for write-offs, partial write-offs, deferrals or interest payments and in this case does not treat them as debtors. While we are not opposed to the proposed solutions to the announcement, we believe that periodic disclosure of debtors on websites will not have the effect of a public declaration that seeks to embarrass the larger debtors of debt. The government and DURS should improve the recovery of tax debt. The information system, which was established in the first government of Janez Janša, proved to be a disaster. The measures imposed by the previous government at the end of the term of office have already been repealed by this government. The former government has proposed a cap on cash transactions and the introduction of tax registers. In fact, this government is promoting a grey economy. It repealed the level of limitation of the former government regarding the limitation of cash operations. Nor has it put in place tax rebates, which means that the Government will consciously cancel up to 200 million revenues from measures to prevent the grey economy proposed by the previous Government. The publication of taxpayers alone will not change the tax avoidance culture. More stringent rules are needed to punish tax evasioners and to increase tax control by increasing tax inspectors and by adopting measures prepared by the previous Government. As already mentioned, Social Democracy will not oppose amendments to the Tax Procedure Act, but we do note that the Government is promoting a grey economy rather than persecuting it. And that's the reason people don't have anything to live on anymore, and the government hasn't even thought about them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u31	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code, Mr. Bojan Starman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, again! Good-bye! The Parliamentary Group of the National Charter with the proposed law has no problems and will support it. It will also support the proposed amendment proposed by the Committee, which simplifies the non-necessary reporting to the National Assembly on the non-payments we received twice a year. If this information is published online, any data on the non-payers will be accessed. I think that this way is right to expose these people who don't pay taxes, that the fuse is that those who don't pay taxes for three months are published, that they owe over 5,000 euros. I also think that taxpayers have the right to find out who is not settling its obligations. I think that this will also psychologically affect people who will make sure that they do not find themselves on these lists and that this will reduce their competitive ability and so on. This law does not solve the problem of those — it follows and publishes taxpayers — who have concealed or have no obligation to do so because they have not properly declared their debt or otherwise. We're gonna have to find other ways here, and it's only right to find them. If we simplify procedures, of course, there will be fewer tax evasions. This legislation in some way allows the procedure to implement previously agreed or flat-rate taxation in practice, which, as I said earlier, is a very positive thing for all craftsmen and small entrepreneurs. The only thing I have mentioned before has been repeated several times: it is likely that this threshold for flat-rate taxation will have to be considered very quickly, at least once. In simplifying, I have to say that it is thought that the VAT threshold would also be raised to EUR 50,000, which would make it even easier to do business, because it would not be VATable for those who reach the turnover of up to EUR 50,000. Once again, the National Charter will support the proposed changes in the hope that they will have a positive impact on the grey economy and on the recovery of more unpaid taxes and contributions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u33	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Roman Žveglič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u34	Another good day, all of it! Your Honor! In view of the different way of taxation, taking into account the standardised revenues, the Tax Procedure Act also had to be harmonised. In addition to this harmonisation, there are some changes that we fully support in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. The current proposal for the publication of tax debtors who are more than 90 days behind in payment of more than EUR 5,000. Although this is a solution that has sparked much critical debate, in the Slovenian People's Party we estimate that regulation will have a positive impact on the responsibility of individual companies to settle their obligations not only to the country, but also to their business partners. Progress has also been made in the planned improvement of tax evasion control by means of computer programs or other electronic devices that allow business events to be deleted and thus tax evasion. In the Slovenian People's Party, however, we join the view that legislation needs to be further strengthened in the field of tax avoidance, and this is only the first step. The following is also expected to strengthen and empower the inspection service of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal also sets out the possibility of disclosing data which are tax confidentiality to the Ministry responsible for technology and science, to determine the effectiveness of tax measures in the field of research and development, or to analyse and monitor the award of R & D incentives. Such arrangements shall also be made possible by the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development and other state aid operators, in accordance with the laws governing agriculture. The need for more transparent supervision has also emerged in this area. We also welcome the simplified possibility of repayment of the debt by the taxable person if the tax does not apply to the conduct of the business. This shows a little more understanding for taxpayers who have been in temporary difficulties or who have been deprived of liquid assets. We fully support all the changes mentioned in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u35	On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs. Marija Plevčak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. According to the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, the Law on the Tax Procedure includes two extremely important novelties: the obligation to publish tax debtors and the prohibition of the use of computer programs and devices that allow the deletion, correction or any modification of the original record without the store of the original data. Our Group fully agrees with the mandatory publication of the taxpayers. We believe that this is an instrument that will certainly reduce tax debt, as other countries' experiences show. It is only logical that no one has the desire or the need to be on such a list on a shameful stake as some call it. So, at least we hope, they'll make sure the list doesn't include them. On the basis of the tax administration's data, there are now more than 14,000 such debtors and together they owe about 809 million to the country. 809 million, which should be in the budget today, when the budget, which we also have at our disposal, cuts not only the country's banal costs, but investments, governance in research and development, social transfers of the most vulnerable people. Every group of people, from children in education, schools, students, workers, unemployed to pensioners with the lowest pension, is not the burden of this financial crisis. It's about time something was done here. I am aware that many have been in the position of a taxpayer, not because of their guilt, but because of the conduct of their business partners. But isn't this also partly responsible for, if we can call it, a poor choice of business partners, for not protecting their claims and so on? In the opinion of our Group of Members, this is also obliged to bear part of the responsibility. I believe, however, that we have a large number of those in the group of debtors who play the basic activity. I am aware of this – this is not just about playing state, it is about people who do not get paid for their work, that we do not even talk about unpaid contributions to pension and disability insurance! At the level of the debt, three activities stand out: construction, processing and trade, maintenance and repair of motor vehicles. According to information, the country's largest debtor owes as much as EUR 24 million. And figure out for yourself how many minimum wages or minimum pensions this is. We will continue to hide him in anonymity and quietly approve of his doing, or let us say out loud who he is. Therefore, Members and Members of the Democratic Party of pensioners believe that it is right and fair that taxpayers whose debt exceeds EUR 5,000 and whose settlement delays 90 or more days are published monthly and on an up-to-date basis. In our view, this measure will encourage voluntary tax payments and reduce the grey economy. A number of countries have already introduced this and the effects are positive. In Croatia, the debt decreased by EUR 4 million in 10 days. Therefore, we do not understand those who oppose all of this. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we expect that this solution will receive broad support. We will certainly be happy to support it ourselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u37	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Joseph Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I announce my support for the amendment of the Tax Procedure Act. We will also support the amendment proposed by the coalition parliamentary groups. We are pleased to have a common view in today's treatment of financial or tax laws and that obviously these laws will receive a lot of support in voting. The Law on the Tax Procedure introduces several necessary innovations, which constitute procedural solutions for the introduction of flat-rate taxation, i.e. in conjunction with the amendment of the Law on Taxes on the Income of Legal Persons and the Law on Income. The Law introduces the publication of a nominee list of all taxpayers whose tax debt exceeds EUR 5 000, but only if the debtor owes at least 90 days. The procedures for the debtors are being simplified, as without the proposed arrangements they should submit a statement of income assessment in order to obtain an overpayment of income paid during the year. The electronic service of acts and the transmission of data to banks shall be determined when they perform the tasks of tax enforcement. The possibility of payment of the tax liability to natural persons shall be introduced without demonstrating the fulfilment of the conditions for the payment of the interest. There are also some other solutions that will lead to the harmonisation of legislation in the field of tax procedure with European Union legislation and some improvements not in the field of tax procedure, which are the removal of the shortcomings of the current Tax Procedure Act. In New Slovenia we especially welcome the introduction of the so-called blacklist or the blacklist of major taxpayers and contributors. The list of publicly published tax debtors shall only cover persons with a significant debt to public cash registers who do not pay taxes for a certain period of time, while not listing persons who rarely miss payment of taxes for only a few days, which is mostly linked to the shorter liquidity problems of taxable persons, but not to default on their tax obligations. Among the innovations that are improving the current regulatory framework, it would highlight the possibility of paying tax returns to taxable persons, natural persons, without demonstrating the existence of conditions for this, but only if the tax obligation does not stem from the exercise of an activity. The possibility of paying tax by hand will, in my opinion, make an important contribution to reducing the number of taxpayers, natural persons. In particular, during the economic crisis, there is an unplanned reduction in inflows in the family budgets, and this option of payment of interest, without the necessary proof of the terms of the interest payment, will allow the taxpayer to settle the tax debt in due time if the tax obligation is to be divided into instalments, amounts to a longer period of time. In New Slovenia we also welcome solutions that promote electronic commerce and data exchange between tax authorities and banks, as these solutions reduce costs and facilitate procedures. In the New Slovenia Group, as we say, we support the amendment to the Tax Procedure Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u39	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. We have two amendments. I am putting to the debate Article 7 of the draft law and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia to Article 7. I'm asking you to report to the debate. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u40	Thank you. I'll be very short. I have already raised this issue at the committee meeting. If we are already talking a lot about removing administrative barriers and non-determining certain things, I would suggest, or I would ask you to support our amendment, which burdens the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration in this work, to send, as the law currently imposes, twice a year to the National Assembly the names of the taxpayers. We are proposing, and somehow in this direction we have also spoken with the Minister of Finance at the Committee meeting, that it is certainly right that the National Assembly is aware of the state of debt and the movement of debt, but that it is not necessary, given that all the data will be made public once again, i.e. twice a year, to send more than ten or more pages of material to the National Assembly. So I ask you to support this amendment of ours.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u41	Thank you. I give my word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u42	Thank you. In fact, we discussed this at a committee meeting. I think your proposal is correct in terms of simplifying the procedures that we are doing at the Ministry of Finance. In fact, it does not make sense that, as has been the case so far, the entire list is transmitted to the National Assembly, but only that part that speaks of the debt movement. That is how I think, as Minister of Finance, this proposal makes sense, as well as to you, if you ever stay at work, it will probably make work easier.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u43	Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u44	Thank you very much. In Article 7, I myself have no reservations to add anything to this Article 7. Perhaps, however, I will take advantage of this, Mr President and ladies and gentlemen, to raise another question in this direction, whether we are simplifying the work of taxation today and reducing administrative and other obstacles. Is that gonna make it any better? At the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, we discussed this law and discussed the tax procedure, the publication of tax debtors, and I agree that this proposed amendment is rationalisation. I think that today, at the meeting of the National Assembly, it is important to say once again that the Rule of Law service has had an extremely large number of questions. It is also a matter of Article 38 of the Constitution, if I have correctly remembered, as regards the protection of personal data, and of the question of where in some way we ensure the protection of personal rights. But I am in favour of saying the debtors and saying everything you want to say in this area. I would like to talk about taxation from the point of view that it is important for the municipalities and the state budget and should therefore be successful. Legislation should be effective and should be very effective in solving problems, and those who are in trouble and cannot pay as well as in recovery of all those who can pay are avoided. Therefore, it seems to me that our legislation should go absolutely in this direction. It is also a grey economy that has been discussed today, as well as information support alone, about the EDIS programme, if I remember it correctly, which today does not give the results that planners wanted. That's the information from the field. It does not produce results for taxpayers and does not produce results for taxpayers. It would therefore be right, ladies and gentlemen, that any change we make would be very well analysed. What's she gonna do? What will be the consequences? Is she going to be operational? Will people therefore be able to work more easily, and will taxpayers receive the necessary information they need to have? Therefore, it seems to me that the simplification of Article 7 is appropriate, and I myself will support the law and Article 7. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u45	Thank you. There's more mag in the word. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to discuss it a little differently. It is interesting how easily we treat taxpayers. We don't ask ourselves why. And it's interesting how we place economic operators as enemies of the state. We've been doing this for almost two decades. Is that our ally? Are these the entities that pay taxes and fill the budget? At this point, we do not ask ourselves what is the real reason for not paying taxes — but even if the state is no longer in a position to settle its obligations! The next thesis is interesting because it seems to me that we are going to some stampede – now it is popular to beat those who have not paid anything by chance, and then the country whose representatives we are, one of the biggest non-payers who takes away their rights by one law, is bound by some obligations and so on. But the company can't do that. What's interesting is the fact that the entrepreneur himself is the most responsible for not paying him and because then because he's not paying in the chain, he can't pay himself. We can even agree with this problem, but what we are citizens, then 2 million citizens, blames us for living in a country that is no longer able to guarantee social security, rights and fulfilment of our obligations. So let's take a look at the problem a little bit wider. I wonder if the basic purpose of this law, to which I do not object, is far from this — we must live in a country where we will pay and where we will all be able to pay taxes. However, this will not reduce the grey economy in this way, as the crisis has only increased everywhere in the world. I'm still very committed to the economy, and I can tell you that there are quite a few good companies with large debts, but I don't know what we're going to do with them. Is it the basic purpose of the law to pay taxes or to embarrass people? Isn't that embarrassing enough? Do we not have a reflection on what we are doing in Maribor’s and Ljubljana’s events? I think that things will have to be done differently, not with shame, but by making such a tax environment, making businesses less burdened and paying taxes more easily. If an individual does not pay a bill – what do you think he does not pay because he does not want to pay or because he cannot pay? What problems today the mayors face in the municipalities when people come to the municipality with a power station and say they cannot pay to help them! You know that's what happens in the company. How many of those who are very loud about the conviction had a company with one, two, ten, one hundred employees and we were ten, twenty years in a position to pay taxes, and that we have experience in practice with what it means if someone doesn't pay you and you can't pay yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u47	Anybody else want to discuss this? Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u48	I would respond to what Mr Vogrin said now in the end. This was a dilemma that we were facing, but it prevailed that the publication of taxpayers was something that could encourage increased payment of taxes, that in the end this could also contribute to greater payment discipline and that the tax administration, as you know, also has certain mechanisms with which, as I mentioned earlier, could grant some remuneration. In the case of larger debtors, we also have cases based on laws where tax claims are converted into equity shares or something like that. This bankruptcy, rescue or forced settlement, and so on, may be involved in some way. At the same time, we find it very difficult to accept thinking that excuses some culture of non-payment. I know that firms in difficulty are difficult to settle all their obligations on a regular basis. And that's why this 90-day deadline is here. We cannot compare this with the situation of people who do not pay bills or something like that because of social distress. People who don't pay bills are a social problem that the social state has to deal with. However, companies that are not able to meet their obligations are not a social problem, but are an economic problem and it makes sense in economic life that those economic operators who cannot operate and who cannot settle their obligations in a longer period cease to operate, are restructured, go into some form of transformation of forced settlement or bankruptcy. At the end of the day, we have the phenomenon of payment non-discipline, which is very large and which is not only related to the crisis, and it has not started with the crisis. It is partly linked to the functioning of the execution, although this has improved with electronic execution. However, it is partly related to the fact that we have a system in which someone may be in debt for a very long time, but it still exists as an economic operator, which is somewhat unusual and would not justify such a situation itself. Finally, the Chamber of Commerce recently sent us a whole set of proposed measures to improve the situation in the economy. One of the proposed measures is the obligation for the Tax Administration to propose bankruptcy of a company that does not pay taxes or not settle all tax obligations for one year. This may be a bit of a grave measure that we will certainly still discuss how best to do, but it shows that we are moving slowly in this country from apologizing, from non-payment, to resolving these matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u49	Thank you. Any other desire to discuss Article 7? If not, I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to this Article. Anybody? If not, I'm closing the debate. The two amendments will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote, 15 minutes after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, that's a second defensive bill for the tax on financial services. The Minister of Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u50	Your Honor! During the financial crisis, not only in Slovenia but globally, there was a demand that the financial sector should contribute more not only to solving the crisis and solving the problems, but also to public financial revenues, which, on the other hand, largely finance the resolution of the consequences of the crisis, in particular its social effects, as well as the effects on the banking system and the financial system. Such requirements were also very clear in Slovenia at the time we adopted the Public Finance Balance Act or measures in this area. That is why we have decided, even on the basis of the agreements concluded at the time with the unions, to propose this tax. The best option would probably be to agree on an additional tax burden on the financial sector at European level, but there, as you know, this initiative to introduce a financial transaction tax, which is said to be a proposal for a directive, could not be agreed by all Member States of the European Union. This is why the process of enhanced cooperation of a group of countries, including Slovenia, is now starting to be introduced only in a smaller number of countries, in order to introduce such a financial transaction tax. Of course, it is impossible to assess how long it will take to harmonise all technical solutions and then transpose such a directive into national legislation. Even if someone said this could be expected in 2014, I think he would be an optimist. That is why we have proposed this tax, which is different in content from the financial transaction tax. It is the burden of payment for financial services, namely those payments which are not included in the value added tax system, in view of the compromises that were adopted at the time when the value added tax was introduced. We propose a rate of 6,5 % on a tax basis, according to the payment of commissions or other costs of payment services. The rate of 6,5 % is the same as the rate currently applicable to the loading of insurance services, which are also not included in the value added tax system. In view of the warnings which were particularly relevant to the cascading of this tax in the field of financial markets, the Committee has adopted amendments exempting from this taxation of financial services services provided at the stock exchange, i.e., for stock exchange or fund management, for fund management companies. This makes sense, too, in this respect, that when a financial transaction tax is introduced in the European Union or in a narrower part of the European Union countries, it will be introduced precisely on this financial market segment – so this is a complement to these two tax forms. The expected effects of the tax are approximately 30 million. Our assessment is that because this is a low level and because it is also a matter of having the cost of payment for financial services for the entire volume of business or, given the total amount of payment, usually very low, there will be no very large negative consequences. From this point of view, we consider the proposal for such a tax to be justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u51	Thank you. We have already held a general debate on this law, so it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. We don't have any amendments either, so I'm breaking this agenda. I apologize. Before that, the Committee on Finance will present its report. Mrs. Patricia Shulin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u52	President, thank you for your word. At its 38th emergency meeting, on 27 November this year, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a Financial Services Tax Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. On the basis of Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a general discussion was also held. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposed law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative technical point of view, and has commented on Articles 3, 4, 8, 10 and 15. In its opinion, the Commission of the Council of State for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance supported the bill, subject to their comments and proposals. They proposed a supplement to Article 8 of the proposal for a law not to pay taxes on insurance intermediaries and agents not exceeding EUR 100,000 per annum. The representative of the Ministry of Finance, Aleš Zivkovic, said that the bill introduces the obligation to pay the tax on financial services, under which financial services are subject to taxation, which are exempt from value added tax under the law governing the system of value added tax. He explained that the financial service tax was a transaction tax and would therefore be charged from the services provided during a certain period. The tax base for the payment of the tax is considered to be the refund — commission — which the taxable person received as a payment in respect of the financial service performed, and the tax rate is set at 6,5 % of the tax base. There is also provision for the exemption of the payment of taxes on certain financial services, namely services subject to VAT and taxes on insurance transactions, and financial services provided or carried out by certain entities such as the BS, the ECB, the European Financial Stability Instrument, other bodies or bodies set up by the European Union, the international financial institution set up by two or more European Union countries, the European Atomic Energy Community, the EIB, international organisations and diplomatic or consular offices of foreign countries. He also said that the tax would be charged and paid on the basis of the tax accounts that the taxpayers would have to invest monthly with the tax authority. To this end, the Minister of Finance will prescribe a form of accounting within 30 days of the entry into force of the law. The applicant expects the first tax payments to be made in May 2013. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that most of their comments were taken into account in the proposed amendments to the coalition. In the course of the discussion, some members and members of the Committee felt that the tax on financial services would mainly affect the social weakness of banks, as the cost of the tax would exceed the individual, that the imposition of additional taxes would be poor for the start-up of credit activities and that the introduction of such a tax would further burden the functioning of banks. In their discussions they also referred to the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and the Association of Banks of Slovenia. In practice, the representative of the Association of Banks of Slovenia felt that the tax on taxation would accumulate in the implementation of the law and that the cascading effect of the tax would in practice increase and also depend on the number of taxpayers. Other discussers said that this law taxes banks, and a similar law prescribes the European Commission, because banks are also responsible for the crisis in the world and in us. The commissions, which are among the higher in Europe, already account for the banks, so that we can talk about bank performance in the financial services tax. Likewise, no value added tax is paid to financial services, so that banks do not pay any tax on services. Following a final discussion on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted amendments to articles 3, 4, 8, 10, 11 and 15. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u53	Thank you. As it is said, there are no amendments, so I interrupt this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, that is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on amendments to the law on value added tax. The proposal was tabled by the Government. At its 38th emergency meeting, on 27 November 2012, it was considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. The Committee did not adopt the articles of the proposal after the discussion had been concluded, and consideration of the draft law was therefore concluded at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. First, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy discussed this law, a general debate was also held, and in the general debate it was found that there were a number of concerns as to whether certain services or certain goods taxed at a lower, 8.5 % rate are to be taxed at a general rate of 20% in the future. The theory, the profession, if you want, is not unique. It is still the basic principle of value added tax, that because of the simpler administration and because there is no impact on the market – taxes in particular with value added tax, we can influence producers, traders and so on – that not everyone is in the same situation because of the tax. Especially if we have different degrees. That's what the profession says, and that's why, as I mentioned earlier, the best step. Of course, several times, both in the European Union and in individual countries, it is possible for countries to introduce two or more levels of value added tax for different reasons, and also the European Union Directive provides that countries must have a maximum of two levels and specifically determine goods and services that are taxed at a lower rate. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we understand the Government's efforts to reduce the deficit, stabilise public finances and therefore look for different possibilities to increase budget revenues. One of these options was put into public debate. The public debate has shown that most Members and Members, as well as the public, are against increasing tax on hairdressing services, on food for animals, on cut flowers, on cleaning of premises and on municipal services. The public debate has shown that, in order to address public finances and public financial deficits, with other measures in other areas, particularly in the field of excise duties, it will be necessary to ensure that the deficit of the state budget is reduced and that public finances are consolidated. However, not with value added tax. This is why we support or agree in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this law does not go into further consideration and that, of course, these services, which I mentioned earlier, will continue to be taxed at a lower rate. After all, it is right that public debates weigh on where the chances of increasing revenues are, thereby reducing the public financial deficit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u55	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matvež Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u56	We welcome the fact that the Government has learned the wrong concept of facing fiscal consolidation and has deviated from the concept of selective value added tax withdrawal. Social Democrats believe that we have also helped with our clear and sharp opposition. We believe that we need to be careful in the next steps as to how this will become a source of compensation. The proposal for a value added tax law provided for €70 million in tax revenues. Instead, the government is expected to raise excise duties on fuels, excise duties on alcohol and cigarettes, and double the excise duty on electricity. They're also supposed to impose a tax on sweet drinks. Social Democrats are estimated to be a problematic doubling of electricity excise duties. While the minister says that this will be known on the stand at the rate of one euro. However, this rise will also affect the most socially sensitive. It can also be problematic that if the Government raises electricity charges for businesses, the rise will endanger the labour intensive sectors. Social Democrats are therefore proposing that the Government cancel the tax reduction on legal persons' income in 2013 of € 190 million, but not that it raises electricity costs, thereby further burdening the household and the economy. The Slovenian Chamber of Commerce also rejects the proposal to introduce higher excise duties in energy consumers who, in their view, are already too high and could further jeopardise the competitiveness of the Slovenian industry. They are also opposed to the introduction of a sweet drink tax because this way customers will focus their consumption on cheaper drinks with sweeteners and colours. The recession in which the Slovenian industry is located does not allow the increase of excise duties on energy products. For some companies this can be very dangerous, as the increase in already high and therefore uncompetitive excise duties on energy may no longer be tolerated. This is also the emphasis of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. In their view, the measure is selective and may have similar negative effects in particular sectors, such as the selective increase in value added tax. The Ministry of Finance is therefore proposed in the Chamber of Economy to immediately withdraw the proposed increase in excise duty on energy. However, the Ministry is expected to move excise duties on energy products downwards towards the average, as is the case in the European Union, rather than upwards. It is also expected that the anticipated introduction of excise duties on certain other products, such as sweet drinks, will be withdrawn. The revenue from excise duty on energy consumers in the share of gross domestic product is already the highest in the European Union and even higher excise duties will significantly reduce the competitiveness of the entire Slovenian industry, which already suffers from high energy consumption. In this respect, it is worth noting that the Social Democrats to the concept, as introduced by the Government by the Law on Public Finance Balancing, in our opinion, were too quick to oppose public financial consolidation at the time. This does not mean that we do not agree that public finances need to be consolidated accordingly. But in doing so, we recommend that we do this more gradually, to do so by means of measures that will be more involved in our grey economy. We know that this is moving between 20% and 30%, and in this field we need to be more actively looking for answers to the country's public financial problems. Let me remind you that the European Commission has already approved a more gradual transition to a targeted structural deficit in July this year. Therefore, in the debate on how to balance public finances in the medium term, we are sure to be interested in how the government will also face yesterday's views of the European Commission with the objectives set at 3% of the structural deficit and, on the other hand, with the appropriate measures, have an impact on economic recovery. We fear that the manoeuvre space is no longer sufficient and that every day of delay with the right measures is delaying valuable time and preventing the right solutions for Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u57	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code, Mr. Bojan Starman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u58	Say good-bye again! Members of the Civil Code are expected to withdraw the change in value added tax. At the first reading of this law, I said that we would strongly support it as it was set up to selectively increase VAT in certain categories of services and products. At that time, I said that we would make and make every effort to find one thing that would not interfere with the current customs, so that we would not interfere to such a large extent as is done here – from the tax rate of 8.5 to 20% – and that we would make sure that we would try to replace these 70 million, as would be saved in the state treasury, somewhere else. And in fact, we have made efforts, we have talked and sought solutions together with the finance minister, and we are glad that we have been able to find a proposal which, of course, immediately raises the question if the places where we will gain this difference are right or could be otherwise. These mentioned excise duties on cigarettes, on petroleum derivatives, on electricity, on sweet drinks, on alcohol. Of course, there is something very small about these wastes of change that would not be so drastic. But there's somewhere to get the money. This savings is taken into account in our budgets, and if we fail to replace this planned reduced expenditure in some other way, then we have a hole in the budget itself, which is already problematic in one way or another and has an over-planned deficit for the next two years. Still, these ways are better for us than were foretold earlier. You've seen how many different comments there have been. We do know, however, that unfortunately, this savings must be realized and that any form of increased tax is unwelcome. I hope that the measures we discussed earlier and some others will boost the growth of our economy, and that competitiveness will nevertheless gradually improve, that we will succeed in reverseing the downward trend of our social product, employ a new person and thus increase the revenues to our cash register, and that we will not always be forced to just reduce and reduce our expenditure. We have once again supported and will support this change. She is very welcome to the Members of the National List because we think she is more honest and that we do not have time to argue about what services and what things are more needed, which are less – we need to decide how to get out of the crisis as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u59	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Roman Žveglič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u60	Your Honor! Good day again. I hope it's the last time today! As you already know, the government coalition has never fully aligned the amendment to the Value Added Tax Act. Some of us had very serious reservations about the increase in public hygiene tax – most of it on municipal services – as well as the increase in the tax on printed media. In the Slovenian People’s Party, we look at these matters in a broader way. So not so much in terms of how much an individual raise means for the budget, but what it means for the final payer and for the individual industries. Rare countries have higher rates of taxation in newspapers, while quite a few countries that completely exclude this industry from taxation and thus help it. Regardless of what we think about the objectivity of any newspaper or publication, we live in a democratic country where freedom of speech and expression apply. The country must promote as much information as possible for citizens and provide them with as many different information as possible. Another issue is the increase in public hygiene tax. Here was also the majority of the financial impact of this law. While it is true that most of the countries in this segment do not have an established lower rate of taxation, there has been another problem with us in parallel. Municipal municipalities simply can no longer keep prices of utilities at such a low level. The new year introduces a revised price methodology for the calculation of municipal services, which would coincide with the expected higher tax. Here there are even higher environmental benefits, in short, the amounts on the tables that would be received by households in the following year could be substantially increased. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we welcome the decision to avoid further incitement at least in this area. Let me remind you, it is a cost of utilities, which, to the greatest extent, touches the socially weak to the extent that income is available. In these times, we must try to avoid such unequal interventions at all costs. If I mention the envisaged taxation of hairdressing services and flowering industries, this is a direct intervention in a particular business segment, in hairdressers for basic activity, and in flowering activity it would feel much more crisis situations when tax rises simultaneously. In the Slovenian People's Party, we withdrew support for the law, not because of the opposition's demand, not because of pressure from lobbyists or hungry pets, or because of the pressure of the media, but simply because it is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u61	Thank you. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs. Marija Plevčak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. A lot of efforts have been made, including by our Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, a lot of coordination has been made on the subject of VAT withdrawal or the abolition of a lower tax rate and thus raises the overall 20% tax rate. Members and Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners have consistently insisted that raising taxes on goods such as public hygiene services, newspapers and the use of sports facilities is certainly not a suitable solution. It is suitable only and only for simple filling of the budget register. However, when adopting any tax legislation, it is also necessary to look at the ordinary person — the person affected by such a tax. And VAT is exactly the kind of tax that he meets, better said, is paid by every individual every day, which can be the purchase of a newspaper, food, payment of any service. The Ministry's proposal was to tax higher those goods that actually represent the basic necessities of life for everyone. Already in the debate on the first reading of this law, our Group stressed that such a proposal places a burden on the socially weak, the lowest incomes. Why? Simply because VAT is paid at all levels of traffic and goods sales. The wealthiest part of their income can be used to save, and this part of their income is not burdened by this tax, whereas the poorest are not able to save anything at all, but are forced to spend their income on bare survival. Think about how much you could put aside if your monthly income was, for example, 400 or 500 euros. Nothing, because it would be all about bills and food, not to talk about families with children and paying for loans. We welcome the decision that the law with such content does not go forward, but that the procedure has ended at the end of the working-body stage in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Of course, we are aware that the financial effects that this law would have to contribute to the budget will have to be found somehow. In what way and where will be the subject of further coordination and proposals that we will meet again on the committees and in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u63	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Joseph Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will try to be rational, because the amendment of the law that we are considering has already experienced its destiny. In the New Slovenia Group, we are pleased that the articles of the amendment of the Law on Value Added Tax on the Labour Body, i.e. on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, have not been adopted. This means that the parliamentary procedure for this amendment is concluded. In the coalition we also talked a lot at the request of the New Slovenia Group about a selective increase in value added tax from 8.5% to 20% for certain commodity groups and for certain services. We have done a lot of simulations and actually wanted to hear professional comments on the proposed amendment of the law. Of course, we have always had in front of us both positive and negative effects of raising VAT rates, as well as concerns about balancing the budget of the Republic of Slovenia or increasing the revenue side of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. At least in a certain part, the general debate indicated such a fate of the law. This indicates that we, Members of Parliament and Members, are listening. Members of the New Slovenia Group express satisfaction with such treatments of laws. Unfortunately, there are no reasons for euphoria when the novelty of the Value Added Tax Act falls, as the revenue of the Republic of Slovenia's budget will have to be provided with other solutions. This is now the concern of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Minister present here. In our search for these solutions, we wish him a happy hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u65	On behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group, Mr Aloj Potočnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I will allow myself to speak with bitter irony and not with euphoria, as my colleague Horvath had previously ordered. In Positive Slovenia, we have already said enough about this subject at the committees and meetings of the National Assembly. Seriously, a few days ago, at a meeting of this National Assembly, we started a discussion with the following words: "It was only a matter of time before the law with this title and about the same content will come in the House of Representatives, so this is not a surprise – it is a necessity." Today, after the experiment has failed and the proposal has been withdrawn, we say: "It was only a matter of time before the law with this title and such content will leave the sent-off bench. It's not a surprise either, and it's an emergency." He came to Parliament with a political climate, he was washed away by the tide of coalition voices. That's how the bouquets and the hairs go, and alcohol and cigarettes come in. We're backing up. The minister knows how cruel the world of tax romance is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u67	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the VAT Law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And before we go to the 6th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the draft law on pension and disability insurance, I interrupt the meeting of the National Assembly by 13 p.m. We expect that in a very short time a report of the parent’s working body will be published in the system. Then the agreed amendments will be tabled and it will take some time to review these amendments. In the middle of the 12th hour, we would meet at the informal consultation of the leaders of the groups in order to agree on how to proceed, whether this interruption by 13 p.m. is sufficient, or then we would interrupt the meeting for a little longer, because I think it is such important material that we all need time to look at both the report and, above all, the amendments. I'm adjourning the session. At 12 o'clock informal consultations of the leaders of the parliamentary groups in room 217, we will see each other again at 3 p.m. and either we continue the meeting or I will interrupt it for a while.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u68	All present, we continue with the 22nd meeting adjourned. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, that is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on retirement and invalidity insurance under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the President of the Government, that is to the Minister of Mag. Andrei Vissiak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u69	Dear Members and Members! Before you and us is an important law, which also belongs in the reform package of this government, this is the new Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. At the very beginning of the law negotiations, we have agreed with the social partners that the basis for this law will be the text and solutions that have already been adopted in this National Assembly, but then not coordinated with the social partners and later rejected at the referendum. That is why we built solutions on the basis of partly built foundations, and we closed the areas that remained open at the time and caused conflict to the extent that the people in the referendum then rejected the solution. The key objectives of the bill are similar to those of then; raising retirement age while halting the fall in pensions. As you know, the 2000 pension reform, which is still in transition, is still falling over the years, and if we let go, with these recent drastic declines, further down the decline, we will cause even greater poverty among the elderly or among the pensioners. We must stop this and at the same time we must adapt the pension conditions to the trend of an ageing society. Over the past hundred years, we have aged 30 years or 30 years longer in the last hundred years – this is a major challenge, a major civilization achievement and at the same time a challenge for pension reforms. We have therefore tightened the pension conditions in the bill. In doing so, we want to work longer and work for a more decent pension than it would be if they remained in force for the existing solution. This is a fundamental starting point and also a fundamental objective that we have pursued through 450 articles of this law. The law regulates even more than that. We are regulating compulsory supplementary pension insurance, so-called professional insurance, and I hope that we will settle it after more than a decade of open issues in this area. In addition, we build on voluntary supplementary pension insurance, make it more attractive and adapt it to the life cycle and to the various needs of the insured involved. We are addressing the important issue of gender equality, namely, the equalization of pension conditions for men and women. There were a lot of questions that were open, not only to Members and Members, but to various social groups, which is why we have coordinated this text with the social partners. I can tell you that there are between 60 and 70 hours of coordination with unions and employers, behind us are coordination with the representatives of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, behind us are coordination with various social interest groups, which each expressed their expected interests in their own way. So this negotiation process has been demanding and we have left something at the end, so for the period between the second and third readings, so today you also have several articles on the table. Some articles are the product of an agreement with the social partners – most of them are of such nature, because open questions are addressed and coordinated with the Chamber of Commerce or with employers’ representatives. Some articles and amendments are also such as to open a space for agreement until Tuesday when this law is to be read last. So don't be surprised at some editorial references in individual amendments. So, before us and before the decision, before this high assembly, there is an important project that will affect future generations and, lastly, our position in the international space.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u70	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the president of Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u71	Thank you and a nice greeting to everyone! At its 12th emergency meeting, on 27 November, and at the first meeting, on 28 November 2012, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance submitted by the Government for consideration and adoption following a regular procedure. Representatives and representatives of the proposer with the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. Andrej Visiak, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, as well as many representatives of the professional and interested public. In the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled, the members and members of the Committee and the most invited discussions focused on the proposed solutions to the draft law relating to general provisions, in this context the characteristics of rights, the importance of financing terms and the demographic fund, then those relating to insurers, self-employed persons, shareholders and other legal relations. There was also much debate on the age and early retirement, the conditions for obtaining the right to a retirement pension, the reduction of the age limit for obtaining the right to an old pension, the pension base, the lowest and highest pension base, the determination of the percentage of the age pension. We also discussed the rights of disability insurance, the definition of disability, injury at work, the right to compensation for disability and the measure of compensation. We have raised the issue of the annual allowance and the allowance for assistance and service, the question of the coordination of pensions, the way in which to implement and determine the level of harmonisation of pensions, the acquisition, enjoyment and loss of rights, the question of the reasons for the termination of the right to a widow or family pension, the age of retirement and the purchase of that period, the home record, that is, the data of the home record and the informational personal account. We discussed the basis for the payment of contributions, the revenue from the State budget or in this light the obligation of the State budget, then the exercise of insurance rights, the enforceability of decisions, the repeal or amendment of the final decision, including the establishment of a board of institutions, professional insurance, professional insurance contributions, the procedure for the establishment of jobs where it is compulsory to include in professional insurance. We also discussed the creation of additional insurance or the establishment of a pension plan, the conclusion of a contract, the establishment of a pension plan by employees. In the transitional and final provisions, however, we talked about the continuation of the procedures initiated prior to the entry into force of this Act on the protection of the rights expected, the protection of the rights expected for the unemployed, the disabled and the recipients of the occupational pension, the expert opinions on the type and degree of disability, the obligations of the State budget, the capital funds, the operation of the fund, the craftsmen and others. There has been a considerable debate on Article 27, which provides for a more gradual transition to new pension conditions for women – it has been quite a debate as to whether such a sharp transition is needed – then also on Article 106 – despite the withdrawal of the DeSUS amendment to this article because an agreement has been reached. Quite a discussion of Article 408, or 161, in conjunction with Article 408, where we have decided to withdraw the amendment to this Article and remain the solutions that are currently in force. Many amendments have been tabled, amendments to the coalition and amendments to the Social Democrats have been adopted, several amendments have become irrelevant, nine amendments have not been adopted and some have been withdrawn. As the Minister has said, we have already agreed in the course of the meeting on which article the amendments will continue to be invested in further procedures, as a small part has remained open, and we have now done so.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u72	Thank you very much for the report. Since the National Assembly held a general debate at its 20th extraordinary meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the groups. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. Let me inform you that we will be following the amendments tabled, which are amendments dated 29 November, these are amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups. In addition, in the computer environment, four additional amendments to Article 145 of Article 407 and Article 412 are published. They are expected to be multiplied and distributed by food and table in about 10 minutes. In the meantime, at least a review will be available for the vote. But given that we have only one document and there is a smaller one multiplying, I think there is no obstacle, regardless of the fact that there is not yet a review of the amendments, so that we can start work or discuss articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups. I ask if anyone wants to discuss the amendment to Article 16. I don't see any desire for a debate. Therefore, I am putting to the debate Article 18 and the amendment to Article 18. Anybody want to talk? I note that he does not want to, so I am also closing the debate. We are moving on to the amendment or to Article 20 and the amendment to Article 20. I'm opening a debate. Anybody want to talk? I note that he does not want to, so I am closing the debate on the amendment to Article 20. I am opening Article 30 and the amendment to Article 30. And I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I'm opening a debate. I don't see any desire or no hand. And that's why I'm closing the debate. We move on to Article 34 or to the amendment to Article 34. I am opening a debate and asking if anyone wants to discuss it. Obviously there is no desire to discuss it, so I am closing the debate. We move on to Article 37 and the amendment to Article 37. I am opening the debate and asking if anyone wants to discuss it. Dr. Andrei Black Nebula, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u73	Thank you very much. When I thought about which article to apply to the debate, I felt this materially so that I could say something about this pension reform and most of my thoughts would be about this article. I will say, like the previous Svetlik pension reform, this reform, which is ahead of us, has set two key objectives: to ensure the sustainability of the pension system or the pension fund and to ensure the dignity of pensions. In the first objective, we can say that it has set it in a much less ambitious way than a transitional reform. The reform we have ahead of us seeks to ensure sustainability by 2020. Given that many of the compromises we welcome have been reached in the negotiations, of course you should not resent us if we express fear or say that we are not so sure that this pension reform will last until 2020. On the contrary – we predict that we will probably meet with a new pension reform before 2020 and we will have to talk about new solutions. This reform is, we will say, mainly of medium-term nature. On the other hand, as regards the second objective, to achieve or ensure the dignity of pensions, we can say that this dignity of pensions will be ensured in a way that there will be no further decline in the wage-retirement ratio. This ratio is expected to stop at the 2012 level achieved, which is 57.12%. Those who retire after the new pension reform, especially men, will receive 57.25% of the wage-retirement ratio for 40 years. In women, it is slightly different because their working hours are extended. This means that a balance was sought between the sustainability of the cash register and the level of pensions. And compromise is what we have before us. Is that enough? Look, the pension reform fell on the referendum as a worthy figure of 64% of the ratio. What does this reform say? This reform says that if you want to achieve a 64% ratio, you will have to work three years longer. For each further year, we will increase and recognise a bonus of 2.5%. For 43 years they would then receive 64% of the ratio, after the Svetlik reform and also after the current one. Now you are placed in a position to choose whether you will be based on the basic condition of 40 years of work and 60 years of age and will have a pension of 57.25%, or you will work longer and have a more decent pension. That's the difference. I would like to say below that the extension of working time is achieved mainly on the basis of the extension of the working age of women. Indeed, women are expected to achieve the same working age as men for known demographic reasons, and it is important that this relationship be achieved in a relatively short time, in a ratio of six years, at a time when the previous pension reform has not yet expired. Therefore, of course, their extension of working time will be longer given the current state of play, so we Social Democrats wanted to humanise these conditions, this rapid transition in order to postpone the transition to 40 years of work in Article 27. Unfortunately, we didn't make it. Of course, men will work longer, but in this longer work activity they will be forced primarily to abolish the time bonuses for children, because they will not be able, as in the previous reform, if they did not take care of the child, to choose an alternative time bonus and to retire earlier. It may also be worth saying that we welcome the solution that you have found with other partners, especially those who advocate family values, to take account of the number of children and thus to ensure the sustainability of the pension allowance for each individual family. However, I must say that this is a credit rating that is considered only as a time bonus – a bonus so that women can retire sooner than they should. In any case, however, if they decide to do so, they will be affected by having a lower pension than they have. I must say that despite my concerns, I am criticizing, and so on I welcome what has happened. She won the game. It has proved that we are able to pursue the search for a common nominee for all, the social partners, the Government, especially the opposition, to cooperate constructively and to reach solutions that are crucial for the further development of our country. If we agreed on anything by the Social Democrats, we agreed that pension reform should be adopted. For us, the withdrawal of Article 408, which meant the elimination or cleansing of the pension allowance at the expense of those who had spent their entire lives paying into the pension registers, only in Slovenia who had their rights acquired, was a fear for them that they could be taken away, represented that point of compromise when we thought that pension reform should turn on the green light, end the story as soon as possible and send a clear signal to citizens and citizens, and abroad that we were able to reach consensus in Slovenia. I would only say that, dear colleagues from the coalition, that it might be appropriate to follow this example, but we would not face what we have before us today: the express dissatisfaction of both the opposition, the social partners and the people who no longer believe that they can influence us and our decisions. It is necessary to stop and continue this way. Let us work in such a way as to find common denominators, and at those points that are crucial to our country, we will find solutions that will be possible for the future, only then will people believe us, otherwise I do not know what the unfolding of events will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The word is from the Minister of Magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u75	Your Honor! Thank you very much for these encouraging words and announcements, but all I have to do is respond to the right information to the public and some indications. First time. This pension reform does not only have medium-term positive financial effects and sustainability but also has long-term effects. I will give specific figures based on the model that assessed the financial effects and, as a result, define the sustainability of the pension fund. Yesterday this was also presented on the committee. The pension reform that is ahead of you, with amendments worth – amendments to these effects – will stop the increase in the share of gross domestic pension product in the coming 7-year period. By 2020, our share of gross domestic product in Slovenia will fall for pension purposes. This means that we will change the trend, because so far the share of this country's or gross domestic product has been growing to pay pensions, but now it will fall for several years and then reach the level again from this year to 2020. If we move forward in 2025, 2030 and 2060, we can find that, as a result of this pension reform, there will be about 350 million euros in pensions each year in 2025 and 2030, and about 350 million euros in pensions each year – every year – and about twice as many as 700 million euros in 2060. It is true that only this will not be enough if trends, the relationship between pensioners and workers continue; that there will be so much less active and so many more pensioners. Therefore, it is not true that we will have to do a new pension reform in a few years. It is only true that we will have to make great efforts to develop and grow the economy, to reduce the number of unemployed and to increase the number of active workers. If we maintain at least some normal trends here and prevent further deterioration of the relationship between pensioners and workers, then we will significantly prolong the impact and validity of pension reform. With more favourable economic developments, the issue can also be sustainable in the long term and we are working on it. It is true, though, that not this one, nor any sharper one, will fail if this relationship deteriorates dramatically. I would therefore like to say that the sustainability component of pension legislation and this reform is very much linked to the economy and economic growth and to the new jobs. That's the first thing. The second point is a comparison of the dose percentages for men during the referendum of the rejected pension reform and that which is not correct. Compare the pension requirement under the proposed pension legislation: that a man retires full-time at the age of 40 after retirement or retirement without retirement, and at the age of 60 comes after this proposal, which is ahead of you, a retirement pension. It receives, as you said, 57.25% of the salary-retirement ratio. After the old rejected pension reform, under this condition I would not have met the conditions for a retirement pension. I wouldn't have met them. At 40 years of age and 60 years of age, he should retire early. His early retirement would amount to 49.5% of the ratios because they would be such small children. I want to tell you, if we compare the comparable retirement age and age together, then we find that this condition is significantly more favourable. This comparison, which was made for 40 years of retirement, refers to another age that this same one would have to meet in order to be able to retire. That's why it's smart to compare it. Compared to the fact that after our current proposal, which is now before you, someone would have retired at 63 years of age – who would have met the conditions 40 years ago and would have worked 43 years ago – would have had a bonus of 3 times 2.5, as proposed, and would have come at least 7.5 more than that of 57.5. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, until 63. We're talking 63 years old if you worked 43. It's comparable because it has to work that long. That is why I would like to say that this pension requirement was significantly different for the social partners at 40 years of age without a retirement pension and 60 years of age, even more acceptable than for the social partners, and it is difficult to compare it and is more favourable than for the same condition for early retirement after a failed reform. That's probably what everyone who knows about this system knows. I think it's right that people know this and that they wouldn't be wrong to miss out two years ago, as I say. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this Article 37 is more or less open because negotiations are still under way with the social partners. This article refers to the percentage of the dose and is linked to the amount of the future pension. It is not only connected to this, it is also linked to bonuses. I must say that negotiations are quite intense and that we are very close, in fact, just before the end. According to the information I have, I can tell you that I can't imagine that by Tuesday, when the third hearing is likely to take place, we wouldn't have come together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u76	Replica, Dr. Andrej Crnak Neglich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I'll tell you about the first one, I just hope it does. Personally, I still express my doubts. On the other hand, I would say the following: indeed, at the referendum, the reform failed to order 43 years of work. That's a no. However, if a man wants to achieve 64% of the replacement ratio with your calculation of 57.25 plus 7.5, he will have to work three years longer. That was the comparison I was talking about. Otherwise, it was precisely because I know that it is not coordinated and that negotiations are still under way on the level of the replacement relationship. I hope that this negotiations will be concluded favourably, on the basis that the pension amounts will be the same on the basis of the replacement ratio. Otherwise, the math holds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 37? Obviously not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 46 and the amendment to the same article, this is an amendment – all amendments are amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. He doesn't want to. That's why I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the consideration of Article 57 and the amendment to Article 57. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I don't see a desire for a debate, so I'm closing the debate. We move on to Article 74 and the amendment to Article 74. Anybody want to talk? I see you don't. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 113 and the amendment to the same Article. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. He does not want to, so I am closing the debate on Article 113. In the second part of the amendments, which you also received on the bench, we have an amendment to Article 140. I am putting to the debate Article 140 and the amendment to Article 140. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss this amendment. I see he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate on the amendment to Article 140. I am opening or putting to the debate Article 143 and the amendment to the same Article. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I'm guessing he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving to Article 145 of the second part of the amendments and the amendment to Article 145. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I find he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate on this amendment. And I am putting to the debate Article 146 and the amendment to the same article. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I'm guessing he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. I am opening or putting to the debate Article 148 and the amendment to the same Article. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I'm guessing he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. We move on to Article 152 and the amendment to the same Article. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I'm guessing he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. We move on to Article 153 and the amendment to Article 153. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I'm guessing he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 154 and the amendment to the same article. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I'm guessing he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 155 and the amendment to the same Article. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I'm guessing he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. We move on to Article 202 and the amendment to Article 202. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss this amendment. Nobody wants to discuss it, so I'm closing the debate. I am opening Article 204 and the amendment to Article 204. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss this amendment. I find that he does not want to, so I am closing the debate on Article 204. I am opening and putting to discussion Article 208, or the amendment to Article 208. I'm opening a debate. Anybody want to talk? I note that there is no wish that no one wants to discuss this article, so I am closing the debate. I am opening Article 210 or the amendment to the same Article. I ask if anyone wants to discuss the amendment to Article 210. I find that no one wants to discuss, so I am closing the debate. I am opening Article 212 and the amendment to Article 212 and asking if anyone wants to discuss the amendment to Article 212. I note that no one wants to discuss it, so I am closing the debate on the amendment to Article 212. We are moving on to Article 233 and the amendment to the same Article. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it, respected colleagues and colleagues. I note that no, so I am closing the debate on the amendment to Article 233. I open Article 390 and the debate on the amendment to Article 390. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 398 and the debate on the amendment to Article 398. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I find that he does not want to, so I am closing the debate on this article. I'm opening section 403. I am opening the debate on the amendment to Article 403 and asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I see one hand. Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Chairman. Well, I won't be long, because practically what has already been said in the past two days, where we are on the working body, I believe that all together have done an extremely important work that has produced fruit to a significant extent, a share. Despite the fact that, as we have also heard from the Minister, all the points that were open to the treatment of the home labour body are still not closed by trade unions. I hope and wish that those questions that are still open will indeed be closed until the last reading. Last but not least, this is an extremely good journey for support, unanimous support, I believe that to such an important law as pension reform. But, as has already been said, we will not particularly trouble this, because I believe that we have achieved in consensus those key solutions and dilemmas that were opened yesterday. If you allow, if not otherwise, I would like to say something in article 403 for the public, those who accompany us and those who have not, after all, designed or commented on article 403 or I will say just about the entire Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which leaves the area of disability and consequently also physical impairment. Despite the fact that some of our proposals that systematically put this area back into law have not been taken into account, a compromise proposal has been adopted and, as I see, the Ministry has indeed taken into account our proposal and has correctly included disability in the framework of Article 403 for physical injury at work, or in particular the area of physical impairment, which is now defined in the law and taken into account in this interim period, pending the implementation of the rule on the protection of persons with disabilities, which must be drawn up by the relevant Ministry of State. This point, which is also in some way a comment by disabled workers, has been appropriately included in the form of an amendment and will be absolutely supported by the Positive Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I ask if anyone else wants to discuss the amendment to Article 403. I'm guessing he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting in the debate 407th Article and the amendment to 407 Article – this is from the second package, if I may say so. I am opening the debate on the amendment to Article 407. Anybody want to talk? Nobody wants to discuss it, so I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the debate Article 408, and the amendment to Article 408. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I'm opening an application for discussion. Please sign up. Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u81	Within the framework of article 408 or this amendment, we see that it has been possible to kill two birds at a time if I express myself a little plastic. The first, which is extremely positive and which we praised in particular in opposition parties and trade unions yesterday, is that the Government was able to delete that controversial provision, which in some way moved – so that I will not be misunderstood – which moved certain categories of pensioners from the pension law and referred them to some other under-law regulation or the resolution of their pensions, rights within individual ministries. This provision was extremely controversial, even from the point of view of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This was one of our demands in support of pension reform, and I must say that we are pleased that this time the Minister has indeed prevailed in wisdom and that the content of Article 408 was deleted from the basic proposal for pension reform. What we are seeing today in the framework of the amendment is that, under this article, which has remained open, we are dealing with another open issue with trade unions, which is the establishment of a transitional period for the abolition of the added time for the study, which we absolutely welcome. This amendment will also come from this point of view, because this closed another chapter, which was inconsistent with the unions, in Positive Slovenia, has been supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u83	Respected and respected! Article 408, like that of colleague Barbara, highlights the importance of the compromise reached yesterday by the adoption of the amendments and the deletion of the disputed text of Article 408. This practically means that the Republic of Slovenia from the State budget for 44 categories of persons, 170 000 insured persons or pensioners will provide funds for their pensions, for their rights, which are part of the existing obligations of the Republic of Slovenia and which 161th Article of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance is now duly summarised without the fact that Article 408. contains dangerous even after-service standards that these issues need to be settled again within one year. As far as I am concerned, these rights do not need to be regulated in a new way, but in any case we must not regulate them differently than they have been regulated so far. This is the obligation of the Republic of Slovenia to these people to be executed by the Republic of Slovenia and to that end to be paid out of the State budget for their pension. I am pleased that there has been wisdom and I can only praise the Minister's flexibility to accept a reasonable proposal, including the opposition. This, in my view, increases the overall acceptability of the entire pension reform and I am pleased. Nevertheless, I have an additional question, and I think it is right that we also hear the answer from ministers at the meeting group of the National Assembly. The third paragraph of Article 408. referred to liabilities to pensioners secured through the Fund of Crafts and Entrepreneurs. The obligation of the Republic of Slovenia to provide funds up to the amount of the lowest pension scheme by law shall apply to retired members of the Fund who are entitled to the pension fund. I ask the Minister to make it clear how this issue will be resolved and how the question that is open for too long, in my opinion, will be properly addressed, and what measures will be taken by his ministry, according to my assessment of the obligation of the Republic of Slovenia to craftsmen and entrepreneurs. However, let me also commend the proposed amendment to Article 408, which essentially replaces the earlier content at issue. In this amendment, which must be returned to me by Andreja, I believe that there is a very welcome proposal that increases the transition of this pension reform, i.e. insured persons who will have 38 years of pension age completed within a period of up to three years after the entry into force of this Act – men – or 35 years of retirement – women – will be able to exercise the right to a two-year period during the study. I think that this is also an extremely important and reasonable compromise, as I understand it, which is the product of social dialogue and I am very happy about this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Andrej Vizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u85	Dear Member, it is true that when we have developed solutions to this pension reform, we have also faced some problems with a long beard. One such problem was compulsory supplementary pension insurance, the so-called professional mixed insurance, which is for those who started in the benefit and entered individual accounts after 2000. These are things that are 12 years old. And we hope it's not quite over yet, so some of the articles are open, and this problem has collapsed. We have failed to address the problem of the Fund of Crafts and Entrepreneurs, because this problem is relatively financially demanding and we have not been able to do so at the same time. Why not? Because this fund needs to be transformed into a mutual insurance company, and only then can we confirm its pension plan, so some procedures need to be done, and so we have committed ourselves, together with the fund, to develop appropriate solutions within one year. Given that this provision was now deleted in Article 408, and this has failed for one year, it does not mean that we will not do so in one year, because we also have to do so because of the financial dimension of this problem. We want to arrange the fund of craftsmen and entrepreneurs within one year of the entry into force of this law. However, as far as the amended article is concerned, I must say that this sum has been possible so far, irrespective of this article, but 408. Article means a cheaper purchase – a cheaper sum for those who are just before retirement and who would have met these conditions in the coming years, which we prevent by implementing this law. In order to take into account the added time for the study, we prevent this by means of this law and we very much want those who are just ahead to have the opportunity to make a cheaper purchase. This article has been offered to trade unions and I must say they are not yet 100% satisfied. There may be some upgrades to those percentages in the second paragraph, as I would call it, but I think this is the right way to allow those who are relatively close to retirement to do so in a shorter period of time to do so more cheaply. Why is it cheaper? I also think it's fair, because basically all educated people, who are applying time to study, are making progress through their careers, whether they're in government, or whether they're in the economy. They probably start with a lower salary and end up with a higher salary, have a ladder, and go up with a salary. It's questionable if it's right for the last one, so at the highest price, they buy years if they buy them. It is right that this buyout happens, for example, from some of their average wages in a career and therefore we lower the ceiling by something or in this particular case by 20%. I hope that this will close the last or the last trade union issue and that we will have a fully coordinated text in the third reading on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u86	I see several deadlines, so I am opening up the possibility of applying for a hearing. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The fact is that after 12 years of adoption of the new pension law – in 1999 we adopted the so-called Robb's Pension Act, which entered into force in 2000 – and that a new law has to be adopted for a number of reasons, particularly because of the unfavourable demographic situation, early retirement, the late entry of young people into the labour market, the weakening of the pension allowance, the reduction of the value of the initial pension, the intransigence of the current system and the increase in public debt. The fact is, we'll have to work longer and longer if we want to have more decent pensions. At first reading, I was concerned mainly about the cleaning of the pension register, which Minister Vizjak mentioned at first reading, because such or similar cleaning, although to a lesser extent, we had already witnessed the implementation of the corrupt Public Finance Balance Act, which affected 26,000 pensioners. This is now referred to in Article 408. According to the initial proposal, it would be a matter of cleaning up the pension allowance when as many as 170,000 Slovenian pensioners, as the Minister said at first reading, say, "will be transparently relocated to the state budget", which in my opinion would mean that they would be given a new category of deleted pensioners. Since this is no longer the case in article 408, I will support the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u89	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President! I would, however, like to maintain some caution in all these compliments that have been made, that a favourable solution would be to delete the discriminatory provisions that have gone backwards and to open up a room for re-evaluation of that part of the eligible pension that the applicants felt should be the subject of a re-examination and determination in individual laws — that they meant to abandon the provision honestly and would not try to reintroduce it with any other legal proceedings. I hope that my doubt is empty and that our satisfaction can be so much greater because we have not embraced a very bad act to the end. I am also pleased that an amendment has also been adopted in this law, which has eliminated another area of discrimination. This is an area of rights that a partner in a registered same-sex partnership can enforce on a widow's pension. Why does this seem very important to me? Perhaps one of you will recall that, already when we adopted the proposal for a position of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal for a Council regulation on jurisdiction, the law applicable, the recognition and enforcement of decisions in the field of matrimonial property relations, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I have expressed the view that decisions or provisions applicable to spouses should be extended in the same way to those who live in the non-legislative community and in the registered same-sex partnership community, as this ensures equality before the law. Therefore, it seems important to me that our national legislation has laid down this and until we find a different view for the same-sex partnership communities on the legal regulation of relations, this will be a small step towards ensuring equal opportunities. I would like to return to the group of those 44 different categories which are eligible for pensions or contributions, allowances, in whole or in part and are financed from the budget. Usually only a cumulative number of 440 million is mentioned and then some groups appear to be more exposed, others than less. On this occasion, it seems necessary to say that if we look at the 2011 report of the institution, then the first group and the second group are almost equal in terms of the amount of the budget allocated to this group under Article 232 of the current law. The first are participants in the national liberation war, the Spanish war, which is said to be just another member of the Spanish civil war, or a participant in the civil war, carrying partisan monuments and so on –19 thousand 625 beneficiaries and 32 million and a half, I am rounding up. If you look at how it is with another group, which was also frequently mentioned – this is a group of recipients of state pensions – and the amount for state pensions coming out of the budget is also 32 million and 250 000 euros, these beneficiaries being 15 thousand 721. As information, such groups, which are covered by the budget of more than 30 million, are 7 out of 44. I have already mentioned two things, perhaps it would suggest that pensioners who are retired under the Law on the Rights of the PICs of former military insurers and beneficiaries of the security allowance – in fact, they are the highest, 55 million – and then beneficiaries of the pension for former republican insurance providers, 44, also beneficiaries of the pension for the first year of their child's life, 30 million. I mean, it's right to know this information and to know which people would be harmed if I were to announce the article envisaged for this law. As we have deleted this, my satisfaction is also bound up and my confidence that this satisfaction will not be misused and that the original decision on these beneficiaries will not come any other way and reach out to their already established rights. This caution is also due to the fact that, in some people's view, it was precisely this part that was the alibi for rejecting the pension reform of the previous government. I no longer see so much concern about the proposed law that I could not make a good journey to the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I'm guessing he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 410, or the amendment to Article 410. And I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss the amendment. Apparently he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. I open Article 412 and the debate on the amendment to Article 412. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I find that he does not want to, so I am closing the debate on Article 412. I am opening Article 413 and the debate on the same Article or amendment to the same Article. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I'm guessing he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. I am opening Article 428 and the amendment to the same Article. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I find that no one wants to discuss this amendment, so I am closing the debate. I'm opening article 429 and the amendment. I'm opening the application. Please sign up. I think I've noticed two hands, but I'm not sure. Mrs. Jan Jenko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u91	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! Reform of the pension law is necessary. The proposed law for the party DeSUS in two articles is not the most ideal but is satisfactory in Articles 106 and 429. These two articles provide for the coordination of pensions. Because we are aware of the situation in the country and, in the majority of the agreements reached with the unions, we agree to lower pension coordination than is required of us Members by the party's membership and other pensioners and which they also deserve. With the approval of the law, only partial consideration shall be given by all coalition parties to the signed coalition contract. In Slovenia, DeSUS is aware that there are 110 000 unemployed, just over 800,000 employees and pensioners around 590 000. These records tell us everything. However, we all know that there is a company in Slovenia. This is a capital company established for the purpose. The purpose of this company is, inter alia, to provide EUR 50 million of STIZ funds for the coordination of pensions. The company settles its commitment to PIZ annually, but – again, we say so! In fact, only €18 million was spent on pension coordination in 2011 and nothing was spent this year. There was no sync. Therefore, this part of the funding allocated by Kada to PPIZ for coordination already covered the share of the pension contribution to be covered by the budget. Pensions are seriously falling, with better living conditions increasing the life expectancy of the population. This factor is not sufficiently taken into account in the current pension law of STIZ-1 and reform of this law is essential. It is also urgent to extend working time. If the calculations and graphs presented by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities hold a meeting, the new calculation of the pension dose of the pension will greatly mitigate the fall in pensions. Pensions in the future will not fall so drastically, but they should remain at the current level and we support that. To conclude, however, I should request the Government and those responsible to report or request that the budget be filled from sources that are available, namely by strict collection of taxes, taxation of church property – here may be the income – the seizure and sale of property to the tycoon, which can be carried out immediately by the competent services or authorities on the basis of the adopted Law on the Seizure of Unlawful Origin. The implementation of this would mean that in 2014 there should be no prejudice to social rights, such as the child allowance, the protective allowance, unemployment allowance, school food subsidies, pensions and other allowances, and in particular the funds collected could also be allocated to promote the economy, thus more jobs, higher wages, higher pensions and less social transfers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I see he does, so I'm reopening the application. Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u93	You wouldn't even answer, but I was encouraged by the discussion of the predecessor in front of me. I must say that I am a little confused at times when I hear how government Members propose to the Government. I do not know now – whether anyone has already left the government coalition or whether we will again pour pure wine in Parliament today. If today, government Members find that mistakes have been made in the past because they have been affected by social rights, child allowances, maternity allowances and so on within the framework of the ZUJF, I propose because only the government Members have been called first because they have the power of coordination within the Government to come with concrete proposals for solutions. I will remind you, honourable Members of the government, that you had the opportunity to accept a number of amendments from the opposition, which went in a positive direction and against the government's proposals for amendments that have reached social rights in the past, but then you denied or opposed the opposition's proposals for a solution. It's not right and it's not fair that you're only coming here today for some cheap populism statement that you might be raising your ratings. It's not right.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I think it was just another wish. Mr. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u95	I react to the debate by my colleague, Barbara Žgajner Tavš, because I think at least that part of the debate is wrong. In this respect, I must take a coalition MP to the defence with her debate, because I believe that the coalition MP or coalition MP is not an extended deadline for the government in Parliament, or at least should not be, and that the coalition Member or coalition Member may at any time refer both proposals and, frankly, criticism to the government. This is very important because it is a parliament and it is not a government. Here, in this House, we should lead this game, we should lead this democratic discourse, especially in the moments at which we are when a human movement in the country rightly expresses its protest against the inertness, self-sufficiency of politics. I think this House needs to listen to this. If the public uprising helps us to know how to talk in Parliament behind party divisions, to talk about the real basis and to know the coalition Members and opposition Members about specific issues better to listen and to cooperate better, this uprising will do much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u97	You wouldn't get me wrong, Comrade Frangez, because you're the second part purely, I believe you deliberately ignored it, but it doesn't matter. How clean in this House of Whose intentions are, I believe that we will all be able to see together on Saturday, when the vote on the amendments to the Public Finance Balance Act will also be held.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I ask if anyone else wants to discuss the amendment to Article 429. I find that he does not want to, so I am closing the debate on this article or amendment. This also closes the debate on all the amendments, given that I find that no one wants to discuss it anymore. As a matter of fact, I'm concluding the debate. The amendments will be decided on in 15 minutes in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. I hereby interrupt this agenda item, and I also interrupt the 22nd extraordinary meeting, which will be resumed at 4:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u99	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving to vote on the proposals for decisions, so please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act under the ordinary procedure. In the second reading, the amendments to the amended draft law were not adopted. The Legal and Legal Service and the Government have not informed me of any inconsistencies, so that we can decide on a proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 75 votes against 8. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. There were no amendments here either, and there were no inconsistencies, so we can move on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 75 votes against 8. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the law has been adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 29 November 2012. We will first decide on the amendment of Article 7 of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 39. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 10. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 76 votes against 1. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the Government, as a bill-maker, proposes that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, also carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. We are moving on to a decision first on this proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u100	What decision, President?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-29-SDZ6-Izredna-22.ana.u101	The conclusion that we will already have a third reading of the bill at this meeting. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and we can move on to the third reading. I ask qualified candidates, do they intend to table amendments to the two articles open by 7 and 10? No, no, no. Therefore, qualified applicants have not announced the amendment. We are moving on to the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Obstacles and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act. The Legal and Legal Service and the Government have not informed me of any inconsistencies and we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with Section 4 which is the third reading of the Financial Services Tax Bill. There were no amendments to the amended law in the second reading, there was no non-conformity, so we are moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 30. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the law has been passed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 6th part of the day’s work, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 29 November 2012. First, we decide on the amendment to Article 16. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We will decide on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 18. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We will decide on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 20. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We will decide on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 30. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We will decide on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 34. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] Amendment accepted. We will decide on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 37. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] Amendment accepted. We will decide on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 46. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] Amendment accepted. Amendment of Article 57 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We will decide on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 113. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 74 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 140 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 143 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 145 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 146 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 148 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 152 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 153 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. It is nice to witness such coherence and unity. Amendment of Article 154 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 155 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 202 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 204 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 208 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 210 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against 1. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 212 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 233 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are already at the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 390. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 398 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 403 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 407 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 408. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 410 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 412 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 413 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 428 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments to Article 429 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments, congratulations to the Minister and to all Members and Members. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will have a third reading of the bill at its next meeting, so I propose that we take a further decision to draw up a proposal for a third reading by the Government. We are voting on this proposal for a decision – now that the Minister is already in such a position to do this work. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] The decision is adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also the 22nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I would just like to inform the leaders of the groups that the text we agree on will be in their e-mails within half an hour. Nicely greeted!
