ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we go to the vote, I would like to inform you that we will proceed to the vote in the following order: 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 1, 2 and 8 of the agenda. We are moving to the vote, so please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Today you're going to be a percentage mag. Melita Zupevec and Roberto Battelli. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Act to the balance sheet sum of banks. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendments were not tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. The Legal and Legal Service and the Government have not informed me of any inconsistencies. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 20. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on a Real Estate Management Plan for State Administrations and Judicial Authorities for 2013. The amendments to the amended motion for a decision have not been tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a resolution. There's no discrepancy either. We will vote on the proposal for a decision on a real estate management plan. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on a Real Estate Management Plan for State Administrations and Judicial Authorities for 2014. The amendments have not been tabled, there is no discrepancy, so we can vote. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for other State Authorities for 2013. There are no amendments, no inconsistencies. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for other State Authorities for 2014. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the 2013 supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the supplementary draft budget. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia has a mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen! The budget we are going to vote on is unrealistic and you are about to make a rebalancing of this state budget. Who will be responsible for this? Who will be responsible for the adoption of the budget as it is or as it will be? You, respected colleagues and colleagues in the coalition, you and no civil servant or official! Without your pressure on the button, this budget cannot be adopted. They say that the budget of a kind of social contract, a contract between citizens on the one hand and a country on the other. In view of what is happening in Slovenia, the protests throughout Slovenia, I hope that we are all clear that we are far from it. Your economic policy is wrong. Actually, she's not here at all. Today's like this, tomorrow's different, and in five days' time, something new. This does not mean that economic and public policy is not being pursued. You will not bring the deficit below 3% of GDP, and you will increase public debt and yet the whole of Slovenia is unhappy. In Positive Slovenia, we hope that you will find that your path to resolving the crisis is wrong as soon as possible and that you will immediately implement the measures that will lead Slovenia to the path of the economic crisis and return our people to a better future. As I said yesterday, we still believe that Slovenia is a country of opportunity and opportunity. There is still hope for Slovenia, only the right path needs to be taken. Because of everything that has been said in positive Slovenia, the 2013 state budget and also for 2014 will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u3	Mr Janko Weber, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Nor will we support the 2013 and 2014 budgets in the Group of Social Democrats. In the introductory address on behalf of the parliamentary group, we have pointed out that these two budgets are not the answer to the situation in Slovenia. People expect these two budgets to enable economic development, allowing new jobs to be provided, allowing for the continuation and development of public education, both basic and university levels, and in particular that we will all have appropriate social security. These two budgets do not eliminate all these problems, on the contrary. It appears that the ruling coalition understands and follows only the objective of the early sale of state property and wants to enable all those who have this information to participate in this process in a way that gives priority to personal interests rather than to the interests of the State, and not to the interests of the people who expect us to act in our opinion, even in the National Assembly, quite differently than in these two budgets. What is worrying is what we can read in the daily newspaper today, that even the most responsible in the government, such as the minister negotiating pension reform, is actively involved in how assets will be sold and what shares will he have in these companies when there is a sale that he will be able to earn. I think that really all the masks about how someone is thinking about the future of Slovenia have fallen and in one year the same interest is crystallized. Early elections were just to make it as fast as possible and to cost up to 12 billion state assets. This was the only goal and, after one year of operation of this coalition, this is reflected very clearly from day to day, from law to law, and especially in these two budgets. Already in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, we have warned that you have withdrawn the sale of the assets managed by Kad, but you have decided without reflection and without any shame to sell the most successful companies in the field of energy. There will be further depletion of the Slovenian economy, so we cannot support these two budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u5	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The 2013 and 2014 budgets are the first government budgets based on real foundations. Based on what's possible today. They are based on the economic policy that this coalition announced about 9 months ago, which is the consolidation of public finances. Consolidation of public finances cannot take place on the basis of debt, cannot take place on the basis of spending more than it is created, and this has been done in the past. This was done in 2009, 2010, 2011. Then came debts and interest to be paid by future generations. It can't be traced anymore. The consolidation of public finances is followed by the resolution of the banking system, as only the resolution of the banking system allows companies to obtain credit and to be able to create greater added value in more competitive conditions, create new jobs and operate competitively with other businesses in Europe and the world. It's not about any property sale. To date, no assets have been sold or sold under hand. It is only a centralisation of management, a centralisation of property management, so that the country will also have something of this property. In the past, the management of this property was poor, the profits were low, although they were so-called monopoly companies. In addition, all other activities such as social, education and other social activities, for example, culture, are guaranteed to work. However, they must be part of the economy, and they must also bear part of the responsibility for further development. This is not about adapting consumption to what we create. Only this will give us the opportunity to further develop.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u7	Thank you. We will vote on the general part of the supplementary draft budget. More explanations for the voice in his own name. I'm opening an application to explain my voice. Mr. Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u8	First, let me say that I cannot support this budget. Despite trying to show that it is consistent, good and that it contains all the elements for a way out of the crisis. I don't think that's true. They say that if the foundation is bad, such a beautiful building with such a beautiful facade will collapse sooner or later if it is not based healthy. In this budget, in particular on the revenue side, it has not sufficiently ensured that it will be met. That we will draw on a billion 400 million European funds next year, I think it is illustrative. Second thing. There are no measures in this budget for faster growth of the economy, for new jobs or this is only determined in principle. In particular, given that the country is in crisis, there is not a single significant infrastructure investment in this budget that would reverse the upward trend, particularly in providing a larger part of the economy. Everything is focused only on some small, smaller investments, a larger number, but in fact they cannot change the structure of the budget. That is why, as I say, I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u9	Mr. Matjaz Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u10	Thank you very much. I will not support the budget, not because I am an opposition Member, but because in this budget, which is one of the main documents of the ruling coalition, how to save the country from the crisis, I do not see a single item to do so. Moreover, all the economic policy you have pursued in the last year — now you have been in power for one year — has only led us to fall further on all the competitiveness scales, to have 3.3% of GDP less than the other countries and to have no alternative to make anything better. In one year you have failed, ladies and gentlemen, to save not one single job. Moreover, companies are going bankrupt from day to day, and you do not find any resources in the budget to save jobs in some way. Your economic policy has led Slovenia to fall on all economic scales in the coming year. For the first time in history, since I've been in the National Assembly, there have been no amendments for local roads, for such, for another road, for the opposition, because we know what the problem is in this country. However, the amendments that should give an answer to the social state, but you have all the amendments, you have rejected all our proposals. You turned down the fact that the kids weren't hungry at school to have a higher education, and here I think you're making a big mistake. As a Member of the Social Democrats, I will not support this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u11	Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u12	Mr. Chekovin was wrong. Not that there are no infrastructure facilities – we will sell them. It's about selling what we have, and what's really most valuable, what's a crime crime to me. What the coalition predicted is of no interest to us when we speak of the National Assembly. What the President of the Government has said here is that pension reform will not have to be adopted and amended until 2015, but something that has not been held up and we understand that pension reform must be adopted. I now ask all of us who are responsible for what we will say to the professors, teachers, researchers and students at the protests today. What we will respond to protests that will take place all the time and are a clear sign that we are not doing the right thing. If the coalition had adopted the budget itself, then I would have agreed. He'll be accepted by the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, we give the Government unlimited powers to do whatever it wants without the National Assembly having control and without having anything to do and having any influence. That's why it's unacceptable. It's not right, it's not good. Citizens and citizens warn us that we are not doing well. Here, too, in the National Assembly, we are said to be such and different, that I will not use political and political adjectives. Health, education, culture, sport, youth, children, infrastructure, sale of facilities – there is nothing you could say is right. You're not even talking. The budget would be the one we should talk to and talk to, and we didn't do it. I cannot support such a budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u13	Mr. Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u14	Thank you very much. I'm aware we can't share more than we have. However, we have warned you all the time, not just us, the professional public, people on the street, Deans, students, rectors, economists, etc. you have been warned that more needs to be done on the revenue side. I may have had naive expectations that there would be something more developmental in this budget. It's nothing. In any of the budgets, we didn't notice anything developmental, at least I didn't. On the contrary, you have bypassed one of the most important areas of investment, that is education. Not that you're around him, you're even taking the most. You take most of our young people, scientists, creators, those talented and successful individuals who are the only ones who can bring us out of the crisis, are the only ones who can raise economic growth and fill the budget so that we can live normally, so that we don't throw people into a beggar's stick and into the kind of trouble they are. Just for intermezzo. It happened to me for the first time today when I went to the National Assembly to buy myself a snack and handed it over to the man who asked for money but took lunch. First time. Otherwise, they always wanted money. The next 100 meters happened the same way. I'm not sorry. I would give them more, and I would allow them to eat. This is happening and this is a disaster. Today, please listen, today you will hear students, professors in peaceful demonstrations. They want to tell you that you are doing the wrong thing, so I cannot support these two budgets.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u15	Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! The budget is indeed a social contract and it is supposed to be a social contract between citizens, citizens and the possibility the State has. However, this social contract has not been the case for the previous three years. On the part of the opposition, we warned you today, those in the opposition, and we did not give you the legitimacy to accept such catastrophic budgets when you owed us 1.8 billion in 2010 for 1.5 billion in 2011. In 2012, we rebalanced our debt into a billion dollars. What did you do in 3 years of rule for which you did not have a social contract with citizens and citizens? The gross domestic product was increased in debt from 22% to 46.9%. That's what colleague Alenka Bratusek was talking about yesterday. She talked about the debt of GDP and poured salt on us in the early hours of this commitment that by the end of 2015 we would owe the country up to 70%. She said we'd double. Colleagues and colleagues, if anything, this year we have offered a thousand jobs for young people, a thousand jobs under the call for a First Challenge, for which 75% of the funds are provided by Europe, 15% of the state budget. It's not true we didn't hire. We are. At this very moment, it will be necessary to do something for young people and the economy. I wonder where those terrible scientists and doctors were today protesting. Why didn't they protest two or three years ago when you drove the country to the brink of collapse? I'm sorry. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u17	Procedural, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u18	Mr President, I know you know the Rules of Procedure very well. I would like to ask that you remind Members who are beginning to emilemise with the other side in their explanations of vote. You know that it is not possible to replicate, and Mr Franc is known to argue, even if he does not know something, so I would ask you to stop such people in some way, because we cannot argue with him and with his ideas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u19	Most people argue in explanation of voice. You do this practically everyone and it's very difficult to imagine how you could argue with you in any explanation of voice, whether you're polarizing or not. So all I can do is beg and call for you to stick to the explanation of your vote. Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u20	Thank you very much. How nice to meet you! I cannot support the 2013 and 2014 supplementary draft budgets. The budget is unrealistic. There's nowhere else to save and tighten the belt, we should be looking for ways to increase the revenue side. I would also like to see the next month or two months come from the savings budget on a development-oriented budget, which is why a rebalancing will be urgently needed in the coming year. I would like to welcome it as soon as possible and above all to have the feeling that it is about supporting the economy, increasing the revenue side in such a way that it is a desire to promote economic growth and, above all, not to pursue just one objective. Today, the aim is to reduce the public financial deficit to 2.5%, which is unrealistic. The objective of balancing the budget in 2015 will also not be achieved. Also, the approach taken to rehabilitate banks with a bad bank, which will need 11% of gross social product after calculation, does not constitute the most economical and time-effective solution. The debt isn't over, either, despite the promises. The government obviously counted in the calculations. I would like to move from the austerity budget, which is this budget, but I do not want to go to the sale of state-owned assets to successful companies such as Krka, Petrol, Drava Power Plants, but to support large investments, infrastructure investments and even less developed areas, to enable them to be aligned with large cities in Slovenia. There are no development components in the budget as is now being prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u21	Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u22	Thank you. I fully understand that budgeting in situations where the country is in a state is very difficult, but also in these circumstances a budget could be drawn up which would have much more potential for the development of the whole economy and the progress of our country. I know it has to be cost-effective. There's no other choice here. I know that the debt is limited, that we cannot over-indebt ourselves, but the allocation of the budget to segments that are more important and less important is possible. This budget does not have this ingenuity. This is a matter of linear reduction and savings in all areas. Where it would be necessary to create some momentum, where new jobs could be generated, there is no financial incentive in the economy. It also seems to me that insufficient funds are allocated to the area of higher education, research activities, technological development. I also think that this budget is a threat to the functioning of the social state. If we do not invest in segments that will promote something new, an added value and a new value, then I wonder what will happen in 2013 and 2014 with this budget what will happen in 2015. In 2015 there will probably be a total crisis because we will not contribute anything. Today, thousands of people travel from Koroška to work in Austria. Thank God we have closeness and that they can search there for their existence and ensure their existence. I am afraid that in 2015 there will be 2 000 or 3 000 people travelling to Austria to work with a budget that is underdeveloped. That is why I believe that the budget, as it is, is not good. Very easy, very linear goes through all the items, although we know that some are more important and others are less important, and some could be pointed at, while others should absolutely not be added to, and should add some value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u23	Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u24	Hello, President! Hello, Members of Parliament and Members! I cannot support this budget for at least three reasons. Firstly, it is fully visible and also known to all Members and Members, as well as to the general public, that it has been prepared by the most untrained part of the Government led by the Minister of Finance and his two Secretary of State. You all know that this is the weakest part of the government, and you have entrusted them with this task. Secondly, this budget is based on decommissioning. In the end, the debtor will become even more indebted. Force us to the path of Greece and not to the right path, which provides new jobs and economic development. This budget is based on fraud. You keep imposing the agenda on the Slovenian public that Slovenia should be sold out so that companies can be more successful and the truth is the other way around. I read to you yesterday, and I'm going to repeat today what happened to Krka and Lek. When both companies were still state-owned, they were equivalent. In 2002, Krka had an annual realization of 370 million and is comparable to Lek. They had a comparable profit of about EUR 50 million. In 2011, when we compare Krka, which is still more or less Slovenian, it has almost a billion euro realisation and only 645 million foreign property in Lek. This poor Krka, still managed by Slovenians, has 150 million euros in profits and this beautiful foreign Lek only 73. This is your agenda and this is your deception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u25	Mrs. Alenka Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u26	I can't support the budget because it's tricky. I cannot support it because it will not support the implementation of infrastructure projects. I don't like that he doesn't support the economy. I can't agree with him because he's not stopping the brain escape. I don't like it because it doesn't stimulate the development of the Gorenj region. I can't support him because he's unrealistic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u27	Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u28	Dear President! The sad conclusion is that today, after one year of government, we find that all the government has been able to present is the intention of selling state property and additional debt. Yesterday, Mr Shircelj was loud that it was no longer possible to resolve debts with additional debt, as has been the case in the past. 60,000 jobs are fewer, domestic, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and 100,000 of those coming from abroad. There is a growing decline in contributions to the budget. This budget is indeed not development-oriented. All major development projects were suppressed somewhere in 2016, 2020. Instead of doing so now that we have the opportunity to go to the Maastricht border and direct this money to large infrastructure projects that are the basis for the start-up of the economy, it generates new jobs and guarantees long-term sustainability of public finances. Why don't we have that? Why are we afraid? We plan to draw a billion 400 million from the EU. That's impossible if we don't have projects. We should already have all the contracts signed today if we are to realize and fulfil the plan we have set ourselves. We know that red tape is so complicated in this country that it's suffocating itself and weakening the back of the economy. Jobs are getting smaller and smaller. Why are we not trying to maintain jobs? This budget destroys all knowledge! Where are we going?Oh, my God! Higher education – we want to get him to some minimum. If we destroy knowledge, we destroy the country, we destroy ourselves and everything left in this country. What they've been building for many decades is what we've been trying to destroy today. I believe it's because you don't do it on purpose, but it's your level and your range. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u29	We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the supplementary draft budget. Even Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I checked in early, and it's too late. I will not vote in favour of this budget because nothing is meant to save the economy, for new jobs, anything to preserve the social state. The worse, the better. The budget is also a very careful plan to make the most of your pockets. Consolidation of public finances is not only possible by destroying everything that is public, but by new jobs at the start of the investment cycle. That's not what this budget is talking about. Yesterday's debate on school nutrition, legislation, RTV contribution, punishment of directors of public institutions, destruction of higher education, sends citizens and citizens to state disobedience. Yeah, guilty man, that's right. With all the predictions made, I really don't know why young people would stay in this country. You make a lot of contributions to the situation as it is. Minister Turk was yesterday, those days, in Dubai. 5,000 euros for some irrelevant congress, for Slovenia irrelevant. How many school meals is that, I'm asking you. Where are we saving? Nowhere. I cannot therefore vote in favour of this budget. You will vote for yourself and bear the responsibility, for the electorate and the electorate are becoming very sober. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u31	Well, given there's still some interest, I'll reopen the application. Voice explanation, mag. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u32	Dear President! Dear Members and Members! Budgets for 2013 and 2014 are not acceptable to me because there is not enough money for health care. For investments, although there are 50 million in 2013, there is not enough for everything that is old equipment and everything else that needs to be done. There's not enough money for public health. There's not enough money for new drugs. There's not enough money for education. There's not enough money for researchers. The crisis affects people's health, so that more diseases and I don't understand how in such a crisis, we can do something positive with this amount of money in health. Not only is there not enough money for health care, but there is no timeline for programs, there is no vision of development. Even what we did in one year at the Ministry, bringing health care institutions together — all those who did so do not know how to proceed. There's no vision, there's no program, and people are confused. I really can't vote for this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u33	Mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! I am aware that the composition of the budget is a difficult matter, especially under conditions where the economic recession and the revenue of the budget are not increasing as the needs are increasing. However, I think we are doing something very wrong. I'm going to read one of the government's excise policy programmes. "The tax policy of the current government in the field of oil derivatives is economic absurdity. We propose such a excise policy that oil derivatives prices will be 5 to 10% lower than prices in the neighbouring most cost-effective countries." It's hard to understand that people are getting lower incomes, that they don't have jobs, and we're raising electricity and oil derivatives that people can't do without. This is not right and the government party or the government party has written it as an economic absurdity of the previous government. I agree that the previous government has put this economically wrong. Why are we doing this again? That's wrong. No wonder we do such absurdities – people will still come before parliament, they will protest, because the budget is also too forceful, with divisions, and brings new divisions. Economic legality cannot be overtaken, and if people’s income is falling, it would be appropriate to [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u35	Mr. Darko Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! A company that does not recognise that health is a value and priority cannot have a competitive economy. This budget is a disaster in the field of public health. I think it's the right term. Why? Because just before that, you passed a law that brought together district health insurance institutions and thus took virtually all the money for public health. Now 10% of this budget is taken up further. I can't say it's unacceptable, but it's a professional mistake. It's about correcting a mistake with a mistake. That is why this is unacceptable and I will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u37	Mag. Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Allow me to serve with some information at the outset and finally explain how I will decide when I vote. At the beginning of 2012, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia managed surpluses and even had EUR 1.9 billion deposits in the EZR system of countries. The average budget position in September 2012 was €215 million, the lowest level for the last 5 years. The documents available show that the liquidity of the budget in 2013 depends on the budget adopted for this year and on the dynamics of indebtedness. Long-term debt was realised in 2012 by long-term loans from domestic institutions totalling EUR 510 million and by issuing a bond on the US market amounting to US$ 2 billion 250 million. In view of everything that has been said and many warnings or requests from the professional public, which has warned budget makers about imperfections or injustices in 2013 and because they do not take into account the real needs of education, social, health and the economy in a broader sense, I cannot support the proposed budgets.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u39	Mrs. Tamara Vont.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I will not accept the proposed budgets for a number of reasons, but I would like to mention only one that is most worrying. We know there's a certain amount of money and resources. But it's up to us or you how to divide it. I will never support such a distribution, which would not only give so little education, but also take what has already been. I don't know if we're following these discussions. I see it as some sort of intellectual state suicide. The more I follow these discussions and the more I listen to you, the more I withdraw this thesis that it is an intellectual suicide. It's an intellectual murder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u41	Mrs. Janja Klasinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u42	I will not support this budget either. I'll continue where my colleague Vontah ended up. In this budget it is an attack on what we have fought for many years in Slovenia – for programme budgets. The programme budget, we decided years ago, must be a budget that will give a vision. This budget doesn't give a vision. It is very easy to find a solution in Slovenia. On the one hand, we have a lot of uneducated people, older generations, on the other hand, a lot of highly educated people, young generations who don't have a job. What do you need to do? More knowledge needs to be put in place that young people will lead our future and at the moment provide for those in construction jobs, in simple jobs, large infrastructure facilities. This is also a classic of economic knowledge and science. What did they do abroad long years ago when crises came? Marshall's plan, various other investments, construction of roads, construction of railways, construction of buildings. This has been saved everywhere, ladies and gentlemen. You don't. And you're just chopping, chopping and chopping, and that's in the poor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u43	Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will not give my support to the proposed budget. This is because everything that has been said, both on the committees and at the plenary session, reveals the intention to transform Slovenian society. I do not agree to the enhanced distribution of Slovenian society. This is what the economic orientations of this budget show. What worries me even more is that once again there are the issues about how the public sector is the one that gives an intellectual substrate who cares about services that is consumption. Has anyone wondered how a civilised community would function without everything they give us in the public sector? Market thinking, competitiveness cannot be a public sector. Because they're non-commercial, a lot of non-commercial services. When I listen to how much anger comes from teachers, trade unions and everyone else, how much distrust there is in Slovenian education, then I am not surprised that there are so many deceptions and so many cuts in this sector. Not to mention how difficult it is to read data in the budget, because items are only for programmes and sub-programmes, and in fact we cannot even understand individual items. There is no other than to vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u45	We are voting on the general part of the 2013 updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would also like to explain my voice on my own behalf. Budgets for 2013 and 2014 are not ideal because the situation in which we live is not ideal, but they are optimal in view of the situation in which we live. The Ministry of Finance has based its preparation on the actual economic situation and the autumn forecasts of Umar and has taken into account the starting points and, above all, has followed the objective of reducing the budget deficit below 3% of gross domestic product, which is also our objective and should be our common objective. Anyone who doesn't want to save has to be in debt. That's what the previous government did. She was buying social peace at the expense of debt and it turned out to be the wrong direction. Therefore, honourable fellow Members, opposition and coalitions, even before the consolidation of public finances, we need to consolidate our awareness that we cannot spend more than we create, so I will, consciously, vote in favour of the proposed budgets for 2013 and 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u47	Can we vote? Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u48	I didn't mean to come by first, but respectable colleague, you still spend more than we collect, still, and this country [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u49	Voice explanation, not replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u50	I will vote against it because, despite all the destruction, you still spend more than we create. You'll be in charge of 4 billion euros. The documents need to be looked at. The Budget Implementation Act provides for this. The budget we are voting on now shows a deficit, there is a visible debt, there is a net debt. In the next three years, the country's debt will be increased by 50%. They're not our inventions! These are the numbers of international and monetary institutions. 50%! From 46.9 to 70.1 %. Don't fool people into changing that. It hasn't changed, and at the beginning I said, and yet the whole of Slovenia is unhappy. You will not reduce the deficit, you will increase the debt and the whole of Slovenia is unhappy. I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u51	We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 35. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 35.]] I note that the general part of the 2013 supplementary draft budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. Budget user 1611 – Ministry of Finance, Parliamentary Group Amendment Positive Slovenia to Sub-programme Payment of Rights. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 47. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Budget user 2130 – Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to the Mining Sub-programme and rehabilitation of mining damage. Mr. Just Bevk, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! Following the liquidation of the Idrija mine, care will still have to be taken for the maintenance of the indemnified part of the mine, monitoring the closing parts, repairing the environment and mining damage, and ensuring the management and maintenance of the rich cultural, natural and technical heritage associated with the Idrija mine, which has been on the UNESCO World Heritage List since June 2012. In order to implement this programme, it is essential to establish a public centre for the management of the heritage of mercury established by the Government in July 2011 as a condition for entry into the Unesc list. This is where I call the competent minister, mag. Zerjava and Dr Turka to transform the mercury mine Idrija as soon as possible in liquidation into the Idrija Heritage Management Center, which was urgently needed for us to be listed on the Unesc list, and to implement the government decision of July 2010. In view of the programme, I propose that this amendment for maintenance works, monitoring and payment of mining damage provide an additional EUR 500 000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u53	We're voting on the amendment. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 47. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2431 – Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. First of all, the First Amendment of the Social Democrats Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 47. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Second amendment of the Social Democrats Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] The amendment has not been accepted. The third amendment of the Social Democrats Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 47. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2611 – Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. We decide on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to the Sub-programme Creation of Jobs. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 47. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budgetary user 3330 – Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport. We decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia to the sub-programme Young researchers, mobility and incentives for the best researchers. Mr. Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u54	Your Honor! In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia we are aware that investment in knowledge, research, scientists and young hopes is the best investment, that is the safest investment to be paid. With the government’s failure — often said where to take it — to prepare a loan withdrawal contract for TES 6, the government threw EUR 30 million through the window. This could pay the costs of young researchers as well as all nutrition in primary schools. Our scientists and researchers are at the European summit itself. If we don't give them the opportunity to keep the level at this level as it is now, our scientists will leave. Many will not even decide to direct their potential to research and development. It's hard to write to a nation that doesn't recognize it. That is why we want to sober you again – think and support this amendment. If you do not listen to us, listen to those who are your up and your hope, as you say – here, they are before Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I'm guessing no, that's why we're voting. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 43. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 43.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We continue to decide on the amendment to the budgetary user 3330 – Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to the Sub-programme Support Activities in the field of culture. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr. Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u56	Respected and respected! Maribor was the European Capital of Culture this year. It was a great honor and great responsibility, and Maribor did it well. Over 500 different projects, artistic events, events, cultural evenings, concerts, large festivals and small, small movements were carried out throughout the year. This project allowed Maribor to gain new self-confidence and decided firmly that the path would build on the abilities and creativity of its people in post-industrial times. Let us not let this project, this important achievement, achieve the national project of the European Capital of Culture, be set free. Let us allow Maribor and the partner cities to continue the mission of this project by pursuing sustainable effects, which are also measured in economic and social impacts. Let me mention that the number of overnight stays in Maribor increased by 70% this year. This is an important achievement, but only if we realize these economic and social effects in the years ahead. My colleague Majda Potter and I have prepared these amendments. We have invested it with ambition to provide 500 000 euros in 2013 and 2014 for the team that proved to be successful in carrying out this project to acquire European funds for projects, because the European Capital of Culture Maribor 2012 has undeniably proved that culture is not a consumer, but is a generator of development, is a generator of new identity. Since Maribor needs positive messages, I respectfully ask for support for this amendment. I'll be happy to support him myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to explain their voice. Mr. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I'd have started it differently. The budget is a social contract between the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government, because citizens cannot all come here and negotiate with the Government, Parliament is a representative of citizens. I ask whether it is really necessary to share proposals so strongly that no amendment can be accepted by the opposition. But I do appeal to reason. The amendment's good. The city of Maribor as the capital of culture offers some additional development options. Let's get him backing up, and let's not show him our muscles, because we're all weak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, Ivan Vogrin is right. The negotiators were here before Parliament, today and often give messages. What's here is those who negotiate with us who sit in here and play the beech if I may say so, literally. Ladies and gentlemen, the European cultural capital is a Slovenian project, not a Maribor project, not a partner city. Slovenia has applied for this project and Slovenia has received this project. It is unreasonable that the Slovenian Government, representing Slovenia, does not see the need to continue this project in 2013, because it is a good project because it is not a project of the left, not the right, not the one – is a project of those who understood that it is a development need of Slovenia. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, listen to the negotiators who are approaching you, who have made their views very clear that you are wrong and support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u62	The amendment is worth supporting because of the great impact that the European Capital of Culture has on Maribor. We talk a lot about the fate of a large, once strong industrial city and how difficult it is to grow into an important university center. At first, it appeared that Mariborians and Mariborians, the fact that we are becoming the European Capital of Culture, are not aware to the full or at least that we do not have as much barbecue as those who have prepared the project. What the European Capital of Culture has done is now, at the end of the year, we can say that the city lives with the European Capital of Culture. This represents great cultural capital for the future and opens the way for new reflections on where we want as a society. I think that, above all, those who are advocates of regionalism should support this amendment, which does not have large financial requirements, because the positive experience gained by the organisers will also be maintained.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I'm observing multiple hands, so I'm opening a report. Please sign up. Mag. Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, chairman. Let me start by saying that I will support the proposed amendment, not only for the reason of my colleague Frangež, who also comes from Maribor, but also for himself, aimed at the organiser or official creators of the event within the EPK, but also because he indirectly supports all the efforts of all other cultures in all Slovenian cities, who, outside of formal cooperation with the event or in the event of the EPK 2012, contributed to cultural prosperity in Slovenia. As someone who has had the opportunity in recent years to visit some of the previous European Capitals of Culture and was familiar with the data, including the economic aspects, of these organisations, I can confirm that each of these investments, which initially went down, later with the appropriate strategy put by each city, has been turned into an economic, tourist, cultural and economic opportunity for each city. Therefore, once again, I support the proposed amendment and also call on others to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u65	Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. I do not think we can compare or find an appropriate or equally difficult cultural event, such as the European Capital of Culture in 2012. It is precisely this amendment that supports this project. Many debaters are talking about Maribor, but we need to look wider. Maribor is the holder of the European Capital of Culture, and the entire Eastern cohesion region from the New City, Ptuj, Murska Sobota, Velenje, Slovenj Gradca participates. This space has been given the opportunity to show and present Europe through our cultural identity in the way it is. It was a great, fantastic opportunity. It will probably not be the same for a long time when Slovenian culture can be promoted in the way it is. As has been said, the EPK, the European Capital of Culture, has introduced something new, strengthened and strengthened our cultural activity in this area and has contributed a lot in terms of economics. It was not a campaign project, it was not a project that was in 2012 and then stopped. This project will have consequences, positive consequences in all these places, and we must be aware of that. This is a very beautiful and absolutely very useful contribution in the cultural field through the EPK. We support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Dragan Bosic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u68	Maribor was an Alpine town in 2000. That's what's left of the market, the farmer's market. That's all that's left of that event. I think Idria was an Alpine town last year. Now the European Capital of Culture is the entire Eastern cohesion region, as the colleague has said, and if we close this project now, it will remain not only a market, but will remain gardens, urban landscapes. That'll be all that's left. I don't think it's necessary to stress that I'm going to support this amendment, but I would like you all to support it together, because it's not a big asset, and it means a lot to Maribor. Then again there would be one story, except for football, which has been in Europe for a long time, and Maribor would have been in Europe or European space for a long time and would have continued the projects that have started. That's why I'm asking you to support this amendment because it makes sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u70	Dear Members and Members, once again a nice greeting! I would like to support this amendment in such a way that we all understand, including the MPs of Pomur, that we are not just talking about Maribor. Murska Sobota is also part of the cultural capital. Since we have a cultural capital, our Theatre Park could be revived with Slovenian and European money. In the meantime, there have also been some interesting events, so Murska Sobota is now richer for a statue of owls on a roller coaster. Whether it's beautiful or not, in any case, it's probably the only owl on the roll for 85,000 euros, and there's a muse and a swan without a roll. I call on these 50,000 euros to be allocated to the cultural capital. I also appeal to those who distribute money that one owl on a roll is enough, so we don't have to have two owls on a roll. Let this money be used wisely. I appeal to all regional Members and Members – not to make a fiasco like the Health Care Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u72	Let's go in one order. The city of Ptuj is also a member of the European Capital of Culture. If that's the case. Let's give everyone who is in favour of regionalisation this amendment to support it. And I say it's different. On 1 February 2008, you had the best, greatest opportunity and opportunity to regionalise this country and put the knife in the back of the then Minister for Local Self-Government of Žagaru. I am sure, my dear colleagues and colleagues, that a team dealing with the European Capital of Culture is also a capable team to prove itself and that it will be able to work well and acquire European funds. If you're afraid for her survival, then there's no point in taking money from the budget and putting it into public spending. Today, when adopting the budget, colleague Alenka Bratušek clearly warned the government coalition that it would bring the country from 46.9% to 70% of GDP debt. Colleagues and colleagues, we must not, because the opposition has told us that we must not take any additional debt out of public funds for anything, but more for economic growth. If we've brought this country into a ditch, we've brought it to three points. At the fact that we have not introduced regionalisation, at the fact that you have been indebted to the country for 8.7 billion euros for the last 3 years and we do not even know where they have gone and that you have not used the European funds available in the last 3 years. I'm afraid I won't support the amendment, even for the good of the teams that will survive and do more.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u73	Thank you very much. On my behalf, too, I ask that you do not object because, in explaining the voice of your colleague and colleagues, they cannot respond to individual comments. I see several deadlines, so I'm reopening my application to explain my voice. Please sign up. Mr. Roman Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. As a pure-blood Ljubljanar, I feel obliged to support this amendment, because I was very proud as a pure-blooded Ljubljanar, that Maribor became the European Capital of Culture and I went to an opening event with great pride and attended some events in Maribor. It is not a new debt, as some who have been sitting in this Parliament for a long time, but it is a reallocation of funds. The amendment, which is written, is that culture gets the money that is otherwise provided for the servicing of public debt. I think that Maribor deserves to have the region – not least on the road as the real Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, who says that the Eastern cohesion region is undernourished to reach 73% of the average of the European Union. I see no reason why we should not use this gesture to devote EUR 500 000 to the Eastern cohesion region and Maribor and take this money out of the second line. I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I understand that we can vote. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 43. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 43.]] The amendment was not accepted. We continue to decide on amendments to the budget user 3330 – Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to the sub-programme Activities of Higher Education. We got a change of amendment on the bench. In addition to the amendment review, we have a change of amendment. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You yourself have drawn attention to what I would like to point out again to myself that an amendment has been tabled for higher education activities, which initially reduces the amount of 20 million to 16 million. This is our final decision, although higher education has lost 20 million, it is imperative that 20 million be implemented in order to implement already signed programmes, in which students have already become involved. Following the great austerity efforts of public universities, how to follow what has already done to the balance and what is causing the ZUJF, this is a fatal incision into higher education. If we have not heard the students and students who read Cankar at the rebalancing and at the ZUJF, if we have not read the letters of the rector conference, we may hear the gathered protestors gathered today at 10 a.m. in front of the headquarters of the University of Ljubljana. You may have noticed a protest by students and students and professors of three art colleges. It is simply a matter of deciding whether or not we want to be a civilized society with a perspective. The point is that the budget should lead the way. This financial intervention is an intervention that prevents normal implementation now and also prevents normal growth from moving forward. I do not want to participate in this work alone on behalf of my fellow Members and my colleague, so we have tabled an amendment. I would expect that in many debates we have managed to convince you of the very important activities we are talking about. After all, we have met with eminent representatives of this sphere at many meetings, in a public presentation of opinions. I hope that you have been convinced and that you have not been distracted by those who meet doubts about the competence of the Slovenian academic sphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Kavtičnik if he wishes to explain his vote on behalf of the Group of Members? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u78	Thank you very much. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia we will support this amendment. Yesterday we spoke for 14 hours, colleague Potrata said how many discussions there were, how many reports there were, how many explanations there were by eminent experts. The ones you wanted to get the information you could get, the ones you can't hear or see, there's no help for you anyway. However, we want to help this country and we want to give all students and all the people in this country, young people who want to study, want to be educated and contribute to this country. With this amendment, we just want to give back what you took from them in the budget. We just want the 16% you take for education at universities for the budget to come back 20% for research work in this budget. The rectors and the dean have warned us that there are no more internal reserves. They're going to have to leave the programs, they're going to have to forgive the workers, the experts, and we know that these experts are the best university professors, and they're still wanted everywhere in Europe. But they're not people who just hang out on the street and yell, they're academics who just say and then go. If that's what you want, then you're really gonna be able to get from Argentina and I don't know where you're going to get the people you're inviting and you want them to come to this country and rescue. You can't see or trust people who live here and want to do something, we don't see them. I don't know what they're up against. Why are we so hard on you? We hear them, but you can't see or hear. I hope I'm wrong! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I ask, does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the Group of Members? He doesn't want to. I give the word to Dr. Gregor Virant for personal reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u80	I will support this amendment because I do not think that the budget is good at this point because intervention in the field of higher education and science is disproportionately high. This is a 15% reduction in this area, in the field of science, for about 20% reduction, and this is an extremely bad message. The whole public sector has to tighten its belt, there is no doubt about it, but we must do so in a certain principle of proportionality, about the same everywhere, and above all not to interfere so strongly with the segment which is most important for this society and its breakthrough from the crisis – science, research, higher education. It is the intellectual elite of the country that can first lead this country out of the crisis. With these 16 million brought by the amendment, we will not save the budget, nor the state, nor higher education and science, but this, colleagues and colleagues, would be an important message. Yesterday I spoke to young researchers who received a prestigious award at MIT, Massachusetts for the field of synthetic biology, and they said to me, "It's not so much about money. We have also managed with relatively little money to achieve what we have achieved. It's a message. We want to hear that you need us." Let us give them this message today. The Minister of Finance has no problems with this redeployment, so I particularly call on colleagues in the coalition to support this amendment. I'm sorry that this didn't work out in the government, that it didn't work out in the coalition, but now is the chance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I'm asking, does anyone else want to explain their voice? I can see that. That's why I'm opening the application. Please sign up. Mr. Matjaz Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I have listened with interest to the President of the National Assembly, and I must say that I fully agree with the President. 16 million at 9 billion is nothing they would have done if they had accepted this amendment, what a symbolic message they would give to the public. There are a lot of people in front of the National Assembly, a lot of intellectuals who are accompanying today's meeting, waiting for a decision on what the National Assembly will take this moment. As far as I am concerned, there are only two extremely important amendments tabled by the Social Democrats and the opposition. This is this amendment, which in some ways saves higher education and school diets worth about 29 million. 29 million would appease and save a lot of people, so I appeal to all Members and Members that we accept the amendment before you, the amendment of the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u84	Thank you. I will support this amendment because it is absolutely necessary. I think the messages and messages from the universities are very clear. 20 million euros have been taken away for higher education and, with our amendment, we have first proposed that we return this amount in full. Later, after further verification, there was harmonisation to propose a lower amount of EUR 16 million, just and only to approach those who might have opposed the amendment of EUR 20 million. While any opposition to the funds we allocate to higher education is really inappropriate, since this prevents the normal implementation of study programmes, it makes it impossible for students to join these programmes. Respectable, the result will be that school fees will have to be introduced if we are to maintain certain study programmes. Is the goal of introducing school fees into Slovenia and thus hurting those who have very low incomes today because their parents are unemployed or have problems in their jobs with salary payments? If this amendment is not adopted, many will be condemned not to complete their education. I don't think the National Assembly can just let this happen. That's why I'm going to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Klasinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u86	Colleagues and colleagues! I'll support this amendment, too. This is an investment in the future. I would like to point out that public education in Slovenia is a very successful school and that most of the people in this hall who have achieved higher education have just graduated from the universities in public education. Slovenia has come to some absurdity in the last 20 years to finance private education with public money. I support private education, but look, nowhere in the world does a country fund private schools to such an extent with public money. If we do not accept this amendment, it will happen that our successful public universities will have to reverse their programmes and that everything we have planned for 20 years in order to prevent a country of smart, capable and successful people from doing so. I liked it very much when I heard the president of the National Assembly say he would support this amendment. I think we need all the intellectuals here, but I think most of us in this room have to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Simčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u88	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! I will also support the amendment itself because I believe that knowledge has an advantage over finance. If knowledge is acquired, the budget can also be filled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u89	Mag. Diane Jedhan. I'm sorry. Something's not working for us.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u90	Vice President, you can't play games. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I'll support this amendment myself. But there's something I need to point out. The 16 million we return – if Slovenian universities receive 16 million, they will still find it very difficult. As much money as was now taken away from them — with the 16 million they receive back — they will still find it very difficult. They have to go into the process of restructuring, they have to look for internal reserves, but at least they have the chance that as important institutions don't crash into some kind of abyss. Without that money, that means two, which means we're playing with a segment of our society that decides our destiny, that's the first. Secondly, from behind it means a disguised pressure on the introduction of tuition, for which there is no agreement in Slovenian society. So, honourable Members, I appeal to all who are present with this amendment – let us at least give our universities the opportunity to restructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! It is quite unusual for the President of the National Assembly, who is a member of the coalition, to suggest a different vote on an amendment as agreed within the coalition, but let's leave it, let's go to the content. I agree with the EUR 16 million that it is not a number that would be invincible for the country. However, it is not true that these payments are taken from contributions to the European Union budget. You can't do that. Payment to the European Union budget must be in line with the Treaty, as we expect payments from the European Union budget. I am very sorry that we did not reconcile such things with the Minister of Finance earlier. It was told, but only to someone that Minister Suštršič agrees. I don't know about this as a coalition MP. Then why haven't we accepted an amendment for 20 million or 26 million for young researchers? I would like to conclude with this, colleagues and colleagues, that this is not fair. However, it is not fair because of this, not because the President of the National Assembly said this – the President of the National Assembly did not agree that a fifth of the work would be free of charge to Members and Members working in universities. Let us take this decision and save the part where they work from public administration through universities and through other institutions and pay double wages. Finally, I will understand that the President of the National Assembly is buying a post after the end of his term of office.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, chairman. I will also support the proposed amendment myself, especially because, despite the assertion by budget preparers that each college or university has a few more reserves in preparing its programmes, this simply does not hold. Despite my bitter experience, I have also believed and continue to believe that knowledge is an investment in the future. This joy cannot rob me of any background, one way or another. The numbers speak for themselves, too. The Faculty of Law in Maribor once employed 45 people, now falling to number 22, which is likely to decline in the coming months or years in such a way as the budget strategy. Because of all the protests that have taken place and the warnings that have been given to us or budget preparers, this sum, which is not symbolic, but it restores some hope to public education, is a suitable way to enforce this amendment. That's why I'm going to support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin. He's not in the hall. Mr. Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u96	Thank you. One of the flyers outside the square says, "Physicists don't teach the theory of relativity." Apparently, some still have it in this national assembly. I think that those of us who have been trained well, for free, are imposing on the current generation of students that if they want to be educated, they will have to pay extra. This is how I see this measure reducing funding for higher education. disproportionate cutting – 18% is this cut compared to last year, from 20 to 15. But do we have the right to sacrifice generations at the expense of solving other things? You know, it's very difficult for young people to say that while we have money, we still have an army in Afghanistan, we have other things to do, but we don't have any education for them. That's why I'm going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u98	Dear Vice President! We have not come into the crisis because of the lack of money, but because of the lack of respect for knowledge and expertise and because of the retarded policy which has been stifling this country and this economy for 20, 21 years. Because we are now even in the coalition, you have prepared to shrink and reduce the share it is intended for, instead of giving more knowledge, more into the knowledge we need that will lead us out of the crisis. No, we want to take the knowledge. That's unacceptable! I'll support the amendment so that higher education doesn't take as long as you predicted. Take it where it is the least painful, do something for greater economic growth, to keep jobs and invest in knowledge, because knowledge is our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to explain their voice. Procedural mag. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u100	Dear Vice President! On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I would like, in accordance with Article 73(2) of the Rules of Procedure, to request a 45-minute recess before the vote and decision on this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u101	Good. I keep asking if anyone else would like to explain their voice. I notice that, yes, that's why I'm opening the application. Please sign up. Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I'll support the amendment, too. Public education, public universities, are our pearl, which we must not destroy. We must not destroy what has been built from generation to generation. Our predecessors invested in the fact that we, the younger generations, had the opportunity to educate themselves. It is a quality work of Slovenian universities, it is a very important cooperation of universities and their institutions with the economy, it is a very important connection of theory with practice. A country like Slovenia must not allow itself to lose public education in order for our young researchers to have better offers abroad because their own country does not support them. Why would young people go abroad for better bread? Public universities and public education also enable and ensure the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia. I will definitely support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u103	Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to say the following first. I was deeply hurt or touched by Mr Puksic's debate, who said what he said about Virant. I am sure Mr Virant can defend himself, but I still had to say this because I do not approve of such discussions in the National Assembly. As far as the amendment is concerned, I would like to say that I am a member of the intellectuals or I understand the need for higher education, research and science to be allocated more resources. I am convinced that within the budget it is possible to redistribute funds so that they can provide these several million and give them to education. In addition, I am sure that our Government will be able to do so with reallocations, because the budget at the level of the country is similar to that of the municipality and we know how we are redistributing funds there – so we can do so here. That is why, despite the fact that I have supported this amendment in the coalition, the coalition MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mag. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u106	Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! It is good and fair to support every amendment concerning young people, either talking about higher education, health care or culture. I will support the amendment because they are young — not a phrase, but a reality — our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Dr. Andreja Black Neglec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment because I owe all my education, from primary school to doctorate, to free education. I couldn't get that education because I didn't come from a wealthy family. I think it is irresponsible of this society to cut off its essence to cut off one of the fundamental riches it has. Systems such as higher education cannot be adapted in the short term. The decision to do so only means that you want to destroy it. That is why I also support the courage of the President of Parliament and all those who will decide to support this amendment. But if you don't know what's going on, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, go and look at the street – "the devil took the joke"! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u110	Or you may find that you have time for such a story to happen to us. I would like to remind you that some day ago we passed pension legislation. Why? Because we realized that she wasn't the best and that we have to do something if we want to make a difference. We're in a similar situation today. Today we can start to make the worst or the worst decisions less bad, helping people to do what people expect us to do and deserve because we have a good education system. I therefore strongly oppose all the debates in which only our proposal would be good. That's not true! A good suggestion is one that at a given time solves a situation. I understand the initiative that has been given for a break in order for others to be, or that you will all understand this moment. Perhaps it would be a good message that we all unanimously support the opposition's proposal and give a good message. Let's do something else for people! This is the beginning of a path that may mean that we will divide into good and less good, into capable and less capable, educated and less educated, not ours and yours. I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Before I give the word "magic." Maji Potrata, I'd like to ask you to stop talking in the hall. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u112	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You know I don't mind talking anyway. We have the opportunity to take a decision in our own hands and prove that the decision-maker is actually the National Assembly. In this case, the proposer is the Government. There have been many attempts to achieve a more favourable position for the survival of higher education in 2013. This failed the negotiators and representatives of higher education. I'm sure we can do it. The amount, as said, is not at the same level as the funds were taken from higher education, so I can agree with the President of the National Assembly that we do not resolve the long-term situation of higher education with this amendment. I would like the representatives of higher education not to feel like a voice in the desert to prove to them that we are a responsive society, that we are an understanding community, which sees that there is a need to provide sound financial foundations for higher education, to arrange for funding in the Higher Education Act, which, last but not least, the Constitutional Court – we should have done so since February of this year. Therefore, this amendment for 2013 can give us a hand in this important area, this important social subsystem, and in 2013 we are looking for the legal basis for what we are in charge of. I'll support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u114	Thank you very much. When President Roosevelt of the United States addressed the nation in 1941 for the entry of Americans into World War II, he gave four reasons why Americans should enter. One of these is security from poverty and fear. The possibility of education for all segments of the population, education, is an addition to the security against poverty and fear. Please, let's take this step and stop sowing poverty and fear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u116	A nation that doesn't understand that its future depends on what we know, what we know, what we can do, is doomed to dark times. I am sure that we all believe that only the knowledge, innovation and creativity of our people can lead us forward so that only with knowledge, creativity can we build a better Slovenia. Today we decide on this amendment. The decommissioning of the public university and public higher education cannot be the objective of any policy. This is anti-policy, an anti-development policy against the vital interests of this nation. I call on everyone to support this amendment, because it is necessary for higher education to be provided with sufficient resources to maintain its development momentum. Only the University of Maribor reduces the funds arising from the budget by 20% compared to 2011. No organism can survive this, no institution can survive it and no university can survive it. Here's our development opportunity. We need to understand that only investing in people, in their social security and investing in what strengthens the development potential of this society is the right way for Slovenia to get out of the crisis. That's why I'm going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to explain their voice. I'm guessing yes, so I'm reopening the application. Please sign up. Mr. Dragan Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Some time ago, I think a bad month ago, I asked Minister Žiga Turk how he will reward the MIT contestants who have achieved an important second place in the Synthetic Biology competition. That's when he told me they'd get a confession at Zois' scholarships. Although they have received this, they do not get anything promising for the future. That is why I think it is a kind of duplicity here, and I think it is very inappropriate in this situation to reduce funds, as the President of the National Assembly himself has said and I absolutely agree with it. I support the amendment, which I also expect from everyone present in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I can still see the desire for a debate, so I'm reopening my application. Please sign up. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. I know that many of the themes that we are going to vote on today are such that they can mobilise a lot of people. We had a debate yesterday on the amendments. The Minister of Finance and his associates have been here practically all day, and I do not recall any of these amendments being supported by the Minister of Finance. He didn't support any of them. Therefore, it is somewhat unusual for someone who has already spoken on behalf of the Minister of Finance or also on behalf of the Government, because the Minister of Finance here represented the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On the other hand, I know that, whether this amendment is adopted or not, it can be acted upon and provided, if necessary, by other means. The law on the implementation of the budget has six articles setting out the powers of the government. By the way, these powers of government are almost identical to those of the previous President of the Government and the previous Government and, if necessary, enable reallocation between the lines within the budget. All threats and stories about what will happen if this does not happen – nothing will happen, no subsystem will be affected and the higher education will work. Above all, I am sure that additional funding will be provided for young researchers. That's what needs to be done. However, I am not in favour of providing funds for high stimulation and [[End of discussion warning sign]] the success of various higher education professors – what is also happening, despite the fact that there is no funding in the higher education system, as they say.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Roman Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. It is not serious today when adopting the amendments and adopting the budget to say that it is possible to replace what we will not accept or the largest coalition party will not accept with some other resources. This is not serious, it is not serious to hear this from the leader of the Group of Members of the largest coalition party. The subsystem cannot function if it is taken disproportionately too far and that is the whole point. Yesterday we listened to the very vehement views of the second leader of the parliamentary group, who spoke about the fact that universities and public higher education will not change anything. Today we are talking about 15% of higher education and 20% of its work on scientific research. If it is behind replacing public education with private education, and the course of this government is taking you to these tracks, then I understand why this is being done, and otherwise I don't understand! If you are working in the public interest and for the public interest, it is in your interest to vote on this amendment today. Let's make the comparison very plastic. Today we are talking about 20 million euros to ensure the normal functioning of all universities, all public universities in Slovenia, which basically means 2 km of paved highway.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I can see that. That's why I'm reopening the application. Mr. Aloysius Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. I'll just say one sentence. This is the biggest support for the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u126	I support the amendment because I don't want this country to become Butales.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. With this amendment, there would be no problem if we did not follow the news at 24 hours in early September and follow the news in the Finances and receive a report from the Government, which tells us that in the first five months of this year, 31.3 million prizes or performances were paid to the public administration. It was also reported that most of these performances were paid due to the increased work of teachers and professors. Public education institutions have paid 21.7 million out of these 31 million. In addition, we were able to read from the Government's report that there were 361 new jobs in the area of education. We're saving, kid, students are getting smaller and we're getting more and more teachers. For me, this is information that must be made public in such discussions. We have to have all this information in front of us when we're talking. Because if there wasn't money in high school, it would be very hard to pay for success. Why did this happen? Because it's the only area where the government didn't ask for it, it's limited spending. Then it didn't pay off somewhere else, but it took advantage of what was left. That's how they did it. That is why it is very difficult for me to follow these debates and it seems to me that all the data really needs to be looked at and asked whether they have really been so extremely successful that 21.7 million euros had to be paid in just five months. Once we have the data for the next six months, it's probably going to be a lot worse.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u129	I see a renewed interest in explanations of vote, so I'm reopening my application. Mag. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Respected and respected! Human capital is the basis for raising economic growth, higher added value, innovation of our products, increasing competitive advantage and leading to the well-being of society. I'll support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tamara Vont.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u132	Thank you very much. This is all because it is one of the rare areas where discipline cannot be established and it is very difficult to order. Since we have often put the National Assembly in such a place, I sometimes wonder why we are here. I am very glad that something like this can't happen, and I'm sure it won't happen at Slovenian universities. As an interest in all this information, let me say one more. I know you can say that we certainly cannot compare ourselves with Denmark in many ways, but we may still be able to import some good example, given that we are also importing bad examples. In the 2013 budget, Denmark has earmarked for the education of as much funding as ever, despite the crisis. Never before has the education budget been as high as it is for next year. I think that says something. Once again, I wonder why to break something that seems to work very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I note that the explanations have been completed and therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or at the request of the New Slovenia Group, I interrupt item 1 of the agenda. I'm adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly in 45 minutes. We'll pick her up at 11.40.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u134	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our adjourned session. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u135	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In this consideration of the budget, we all had to suffer the heavy words of how terrible we are. I admit I felt very bad. Believe me, we have tried or tried to do the best we can for this country to make that we have limited opportunities! In a way, you're asking us to do this, what, the second, the third, and, on the other hand, the state, the situation requires us to act responsibly. In all our debates and all our votes, we have acted in this way and tried to be as responsible as possible for the next generation as possible, so that the next generation will not be subject to our debts. That was our foundation, and we had to listen to hard words. In this amendment, before which we have requested a break for consultation in the parliamentary group, we have decided the following. We will support this amendment. We will support it because we estimate that 16 million euros will already be found somewhere, if not here, but be aware that from here on out we will bear common responsibility, how and what to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u136	Procedural Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u137	Thank you for your word. In view of the fact that we in the Group of Social Democrats announced in the introduction that we will not support the 2013 budget, I would like to state in a procedural manner that, on the basis of the announcement presented by my colleague Tonin, this amendment will receive support. I hope that then there will be sufficient support for the other Members and Members who will decide on this to be adopted. It is a matter of procedure that I say that it is precisely because these words, which have been spoken on this budget, also on our part, will not only be a word that we want bad or a coalition or a state, but, above all, a word of warning. If these warnings are taken into account, this means a great deal to us. I say procedurally that we are changing our position and will abstain from the 2013 budget. I can say that if I accidentally received the support of the student nutrition amendment, we are also prepared to support the 2013 budget as an opposition party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u138	Procedural Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your statement that the Minister of Finance has no problem with the redeployment you have made here, and with which you have caused this confusion in the National Assembly, does not stand. I have here before me a written statement by the Minister of Finance, which he forwarded to his Secretary of State and a written statement, which he also forwarded to some leaders of the Group of Members, that he insists on what was agreed on – that the amendment is not supported and that, in the course of the year, things are regulated and funds transferred where they are most needed. I must say that I am somewhat appalled that the President of the National Assembly makes a statement, which is in writing inconsistent with the two documents that have come in the last 10 minutes, from a minister who is a member of his party and of the Government that we support. As far as voting on these two amendments is concerned, we will adapt, there is no problem, we have no problem with it, but I would like to say that it is distasteful for the President of the National Assembly to frustrate the statements of his own ministers. Yesterday, when we had statements here, the Minister of Finance did not say in a single word that anything in this area must be done differently or that anything would have been impossible if those amendments had not been adopted. In fact, the Law on the implementation of the budget is one that enables the Government to make an extremely successful communication, if necessary, and also to support concrete projects, substantially more than in a principled or general way. As I said, we will adapt ourselves to decisions which, if necessary, will provide a higher level of support for the budget, and we condemn the statements made by the President of the National Assembly, which in this way is the subject of terror between members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u140	Okay, Mr. Tanko, if you've misused the procedural word, then I'll explain things to my colleagues and colleagues. If you think you're going to try to keep us with the Minister of Finance, then you're wrong. The story of this amendment took place in such a way that the Minister of Finance and I discussed with the previous day whether there was anything more that could be done for the field of science and higher education, aware that this was a disproportionately high intervention. The process was the only thing that could still be done, supporting the opposition's amendments, with the Minister of Finance saying that it would be good if this amendment were slightly milder, financially, to agree on a slightly lower amount. I then played an intermediate role, talked to my colleague Webro, who agreed to limit this amendment to 16 million, and this was acceptable to the Minister of Finance. I was talking about an agreement with the Minister of Finance that was concluded before yesterday, which my colleague, Šuštersič, will also confirm. So I would ask that when we talk about such things, we talk about them in the presence of those we talk about. Procedural Mr. Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Regardless of what has been said now, Members of the Slovenian People's Party decided during this break to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u142	Procedural, Mr. Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Given that everyone has taken advantage of procedural issues and has explained how they will vote, I myself will say very briefly that I have checked how much funding has been earmarked for this matter in the past, for higher education, etc., and I have found that the growth of funding from year to year has also grown dramatically in some years. This means that our parliamentary group will vote in favour on the basis of the constructive state of the opposition party of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u144	I am voting on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to the Sub-programme. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 79 votes against 3. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against three.]] The amendment was accepted. We continue to decide on amendments to the budget user 3330 – Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport. First of all, the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia to the sub-programme Food of students, students and students. Mr. Roman Jakič, explanation of vote in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. I am pleased with this pre-godly atmosphere of cooperation and I would like to propose that we vote in this amendment as united as we did in the previous one. I'll tell you one historical truth. Twenty-two years ago, in this Chamber of Democracy, as the youngest Member, I proposed a student diet subsidy. The Minister was Mr Vencel from Christian Democrats and most were Demos. I think that the only thing that Pahor and I, who are here today, have asked the majority, as the leader of the underages of our clients, to support something that is essential for children in order to be at peace, and above all satisfied, can devote themselves to the only task, that is to learning. Now after 22 years, I ask you again, if only it is possible to support the amendment before you, that the children in school will continue to be satisfied and that they will be able to devote themselves only to what they are in school for, namely, learning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u146	Mr. Franz Pukšič, explanation of vote in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u147	Colleagues and colleagues! Given that I thought I was a member of the coalition in this mandate and I did not know about certain things until the previous speech of the President of the National Assembly, which was contrary to what we received in writing, not yesterday, but today at 11:26, by the Ministry of Finance. The Social Democrats have already defined, at the time of the amendment, that they will abstain from budgeting, but if it comes to helping schoolchildren, students, students and students, these 23 million, they will even support the budget. I believe it does not matter whether it is from Positive Slovenia or from SD, because there is no significant difference. I made a personal decision, contrary to the coalition agreement, because it was gone and because yesterday I did not know that, Mr President, I would abuse the coalition agreement, just as you did and I would vote in favour of this amendment. Not because of the forecast that they will support the budget, but if you have allowed yourself to go through everything as President of the National Assembly, as President of the Party in which the Minister of Finance is located, then these 23 million will also be found to feed students, students and students. But if not, we don't need such coalitions any more. Let's put together a friend you're making deals with and talk to past us. I won't allow it! I don't allow manipulations with people and Members of Parliament here! I've been here too long, I've always been on the fair side, and I'm gonna do it this time! I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u148	I would like to draw your attention to the constitutional provision that we are Members of all the people, which means that each of us can think with his own head. We are on the basis of explanations on behalf of the Group of Members. Procedural Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u149	Procedural first. Here we have two amendments. Same subroutines, same characteristics, same markings. I would like to know whether there is a vote on either one amendment or the other amendment. I believe that in the event that the first amendment is adopted, the second one cannot be voted on because it regulates the same area, the same content, the same code covers, the same purpose, and it should be settled before the vote, Mr President, that we know what we are voting on, not on 50, but on 20 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u150	Mr. Tanko, I think that's true. It is the two amendments that add funds to the same item by making one amendment more distant from the basic budget and it is doubtless logical that if the first one is adopted, then we should not vote on the other. It was not the intention of the two amendments to add these transfers together, but two members of the group proposed different increases. So if the first amendment were adopted, then we will not vote on the second. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I'm just going to open up an application to explain my vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Procedural first, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. If the amendment is adopted, we are prepared to withdraw the amendment of the Social Democrats. In addition, I would like to say that after further checks to ensure the nutrition of students and students, an amount of EUR 9 million is needed. The amount mentioned in our amendment and probably also in the amendment of Positive Slovenia was based on the information at the time. Even less resources will need to be provided, according to accurate information, than these amendments. I hereby announce that we will withdraw our amendment under number 2 if the amendment under number 1 is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u152	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u153	Thank you so much for saying that. What colleague Weber said applies to all amendments, not just what they proposed. It is therefore problematic to decide on amendments based on unverified needs and data. This is also why the provisions of the Law on the implementation of the budget concerning transfers of needs and actual matters are, but not after what is optical and like. With regard to the amendment that has been tabled, we will support it in order to correct the mistakes and errors that have occurred in the previous mandate when the Government of Borut Pahor adopted the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, which radically intervened in all human rights under the Transfer item, in particular those with the lowest standard, whether grants, child allowances, food subsidies and other subsidies, transport, etc. However, the previous government has not reached into any of the privileges of those with more than a thousand euros in income. This compensatory measure is necessary, but in a substantially smaller amount. Given that the amendment cannot be corrected any longer, it must be accepted as it is, knowing that the money on this item is essential too much. When you decide, colleagues, it would be good to look at the history of what is the process in the areas of nutrition, transport, other social transfers, and then they can turn around and explain things differently. I was certainly the one who proposed some of the social laws, also the one about subsidising the student diet, with which we provided funds for warm meals to students for the first time in the history of Slovenia. But that law, which was then submitted to the procedure, received the horrendous ridicule of some Members, including the Social Democrats, not only from other opposition parties of the time, such as Zares, LDS and similar parties. We'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u154	Dr. Andreja Black Neglec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! We have introduced a law amending the School Diet Act because children in Slovenia are hungry. We are aware that two reasons have contributed to this. First of all, the Public Finance Balance Act, which took away a subsidy of two-thirds of the cost of nutrition for all Slovenian children. Today only 20% of primary and 12% of secondary school children receive the subsidy. Secondly, if you are already referring to social legislation, I would say what your minister said: "Evalvation is preparing. We don't have these yet, but we have effects. There is a somewhat narrow circle of beneficiaries everywhere, taking into account the wider range of eligibility criteria. On average, transfers to the individual are higher, which means that the case is slightly more targeted and more favourable for those recipients." This was the basic objective of social legislation and therefore it was adopted, and this is also recognised by your Minister. But when he realized that there was something very wrong in the school diet, he announced the changes himself. Let me also say that we are the Social Democrats, given that you have accepted the previous amendment, that you are inclined to support this amendment, for the first time in history, to support the budget, despite all the concerns we have for the well-being of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u156	Thank you. Mag. Alenka Bratušek on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u157	We have only tabled this amendment for one purpose, that is to ensure to those who are truly hungry, a meal at school. It is true that these injustices were not only caused by the ZUJF, but also by the legislation that was previously adopted, and we have always acknowledged this. So I thank you all, even on behalf of those we will allow them to probably not be satisfied enough, but at least they will be a little less hungry.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u158	I'm opening an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u159	Thank you, President. On the day of the Slovenian food festival, we found that schools have a problem. There are families that are hard to pay for lunches for their children. Schools try to do this in a variety of ways, with charity, wealth, school funds, but it cannot be whether the child is hungry or fed up with charity. That is why we have also prepared and introduced into the procedure a law amending the School Diet Act. On the same day, the competent minister, Andrej Vizjak, spoke. Your minister said, "I know something's wrong and we're looking for a solution." At that time, we immediately said that it was not so important to us whether our marriage, any similar law, was adopted, was important to us to solve the problem. I will support the amendment that has been tabled. As I see and hear that this proposal will receive broad support from Members and Members of Parliament, I believe that in this National Assembly a party discipline can overcome the attitude of people to man.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u160	Mr. Matjaz Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u161	Thank you very much. First of all, let me say that I'm happy if what I think is going to happen is that we're going to accept this amendment. We Social Democrats have proven that it is not important to us who is signed under the amendment, whether it is Positive Slovenia or SDS or New Slovenia, but that the problem is solved. Throughout the adoption of the budget, we in the Group of the Social Democrats advocated that the problem of school nutrition and higher education be resolved. If we have reached today with a smart compromise that we will accept these two amendments, that we will continue to ensure knowledge in Slovenia and that our children will not be hungry, then I will take all the words that I have said half an hour ago, and I will say publicly that, because of these two amendments, if they are adopted, because of policy, not because of the parties, because of smart policy, the 2013 and 2014 budget of the Republic of Slovenia. I hope that this will give people in the country a signal that politics is able to negotiate and talk and make decisions that benefit people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u162	Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u163	I will also support this amendment, and I would like to say that we have introduced free student diet in the 2004-2008 term, free of charge for all students. This would also continue in the field of primary schools, but at the time our mandate expired, you have taken over the Social Democrats and others who are now in the Group of Positive Slovenia. The first thing you did in the new term was to separate the students — one, one, one, and since then, the free lunch was over for all the students. We've divided them according to social status. Once again, when the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds was adopted and entered into force 1. 1. 2012, you have been warned by the profession that there is too low censorship and that there will be a problem. Let's face it, because you know very well that you've been warned by experts, and we've warned you, too, but you didn't want to hear us. As a result, today a subsidized meal has about as many children as it has had before, but it has significantly more at the time of a subsidised lunch. If we support this amendment, the change that both ministries are preparing in the form of a law will be the 9 million or whatever it takes to do so. We have always been those who advocated that our children eat poorly and that something must be done in this area, because it also means a significantly better condition in the health treasury — if we have healthy young people, we also have healthy older ones.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u164	Mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u165	I believe that if injustices have been created in the past, that this does not give us a right or a basis to continue. We have major structural anomalies. I have been warning for some time that, during the crisis in the public sector, the wage ratio should be a maximum of 1:5. The argument that there is no money to feed students, students, does not hold back, for this money is enough to take into account some different solutions. They just require a little more effort to find these solutions and eliminate structural inconsistencies. So I think that the amendment is absolutely necessary to support and give the opportunity to young people who are real, but this is not a phrase, I don't know where some people live or live, some are hungry – that is a fact. Some do not, parents do not know whether to pay for electricity or to go to the store to buy something or to give a baby for lunch. Let us deal with this soberly, responsibly, courageously and accept solutions as proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u166	Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u167	Thank you. As well as my fellow Members from New Slovenia, we will support the amendment proposal. The blame he has made to the greatest extent is the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds in the former Government, which will somehow be eased. Regardless of who is to blame, it is right to resolve injustices together, and here our willingness to cooperate together is shown for our hearing. I think that we will have to do this for the benefit of Slovenia and all citizens and citizens in the future, including others so compatible.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u168	Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Most of us in Positive Slovenia have only been in Parliament for 8 months, so we don't care who's responsible for this or that. I am convinced that in this society we really need to find agreement among all on some basic standards. These are the points at which everyone should be united. One of these points should be, whether it is a crisis or a good time, that every Slovenian child receives one meal in school. Or because he can't get it at home because there's no money, or because his parents are working in two shifts, or because his mother's reckless, maybe that's what they are. As a society, we should ensure this and then, in other areas, give ourselves some minimum standards and add added value to the decision-making process in that country by correcting the government and ensuring that these minimum standards are respected. I think that whether we are a social state or not is not an option in this century. The social state is something that exists in Europe and that we must all strive to do. In this sense, there must be no doubt about such things and we must stand together. I will vote for our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u170	Mag. Sonja Ramshak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u171	Thanks for the name. I'm not a Master yet, but I hope someday, thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will also support this amendment myself, not because there was a debate yesterday between some Members and Members in this National Assembly, and when we heard about how our children are hungry, but also because what Mrs Maša Kociper has just said is that, both in primary school and in high school, a developed society should provide students and students with a free meal. That's what I'm defending. Because of the fact that the Group of Members decided to confirm this amendment, I was happy to accept this decision because I had already announced that I would – as we adopted the Higher Education Act, the amendment to the Higher Education Act – confirm this amendment and my vote goes with pleasure for this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u172	Mag. Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u173	Thank you for your word, chairman. I will support the proposed amendment, irrespective of the proposer, because it is incomprehensible to me that in the age in which we live, we face the same problems as we have faced in the previous century, as I have experienced in my own study of my diplomatic work, which bears the title of the Credit of Dr Mitja Slavič for joining Prekmur to the Republic of Slovenia or Yugoslavia at the time, in reviewing the letters he sent home to his family, who, according to her abilities and options, sent him food packages, that he was not a student on foreign hunger. It is therefore incomprehensible that, in the modern era of globalisation and growing forms of farming, which are expected to produce large quantities of food, we are facing the situation which is unfortunately at present. As it is said, I support the proposed amendment, and I hope that the majority of Members and Members will also.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u174	Anybody else want some? I'm reopening the application. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u175	Thank you very much. With what is happening here today, I must repeat to the new President of the Republic that I am brave and not stupid, but I must say that I am naive. For so far, I have altruistically believed that I must trust the Minister of Finance that the situation is such that we cannot survive without certain cuts. I'm guessing our minister, Mr. Giga Turk, was somehow lured into a trap. He was involved in the biggest criticisms, the biggest littering of manure in Slovenia, and I believe he would be happy if he could have made it possible with his heart and soul earlier, which these amendments bring, because I am also for it. I am also in favour of children getting food and lunch, because especially in demographically endangered areas, where I come from, there are many such children. When I say that I will support this amendment myself, I would like to plead for less conformism and more altruism for the future, because they will not convince me that some have done it out of altruism, they have done it out of calculus. That's not who I am, but I'm happy to be able to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u176	Mr. Marian Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u177	Dear Mr. President! I will support this amendment mainly because of the experience I have from my own life. When I was in elementary school, I didn't have lunch at primary school for six years, because there were six of us and my dad and my mom didn't have any money to pay for lunch. Believe me, when you're a kid, you feel like kids are having lunch, and you're sitting outside on a bench waiting for you when you know kids are the most sensitive. This is one of the absolute reasons for me to support this amendment. The other thing that seems very important to me is the next. Today, we have been able to see that we can work together on important matters. This is the most important message of today's plenary session, and this is what our citizens and citizens expect from us. Thank God we once crossed the left-right border and found solutions that are written on the skin of most of those to whom this amendment is intended. That's why I'm happy to support this amendment. But maybe just one more sentence. Today, there are some who are moralizing how certain things need to be resolved, and they are responsible for the fact that a family of many, some children are disadvantaged — because they are not paid — so that their parents can pay for their lunch. I hope that there will be fewer Members in this House who will moralise and speak here in one way and work in another in their lives. That seems very controversial to me. I'd be happy to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Dr. Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u179	I'll support the amendment. In recent days, I have spoken to quite a few primary school principals because I wanted to make sure, quite directly, that the problem of meals and hungry children is alive. Everyone told me the same thing. They're trouble. They're not uncontrollable. Maybe they're not as big as they seem. I don't know whether this €23 million will be needed or whether it will be necessary. I think there's a problem, but it's not the dimensions that sometimes appear. But something else is more important today. It's an important message we're going to give. The amount that we are redistributing with these amendments is a relatively small percentage or percentage in billions of the state budget. But the message we will give to the people, the Slovenian public, when the budget at least so shows, will be adopted unanimously, but it will be extremely important, extremely important and worth more than the money we redistribute with these amendments. It wasn't easy for me today. I heard a lot of them at my expense, but it was worth it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u180	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u181	Thank you. Support for this amendment or the other submitted by the Group of Social Democrats would in any event have my support. But what will now strengthen this support is the forecast of a reconciled tone by the smallest parliamentary group. Although this forecast did not hold up, some of the eyewitnesses came forward again. I don't think we're going to forget the different positions when we consider the bill, which is what's yet to come. I also do not think that today's support will be able to cover some of our different views for the future. But the important thing is that today we have found agreement on two amendments that are essential to the lives of the young generation. We are talking about a society that has one of the most difficult demographic challenges in Europe. That's why caring for the young generation is necessary. I don't care what group it was that made a mistake. It is essential that one government, with one law, ensure that all three generations, primary, secondary and higher education, receive a food subsidy. That's the point. I expect that someday we will become such a rich society that we can also get to what some of you have mentioned, that we will provide one free meal of safe food, so that we will raise appropriate behavioural patterns of the young generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u182	Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u183	Thank you so much for saying that. Yesterday, in more than an hour's debate, I tried to justify the eligibility of this amendment. I have tried so hard to, I believe, react at times very violently and emotionally and that my words in certain parts have been harshly expressed. If I've offended anyone, I apologize. It wasn't my purpose, but apparently we've all achieved the positive purpose of this amendment together today. I sincerely thank you for your understanding and support of this amendment. On our own behalf and on behalf of those who have asked us to come to the rescue and, on behalf of those who deserve it, I believe that we can regulate this change at systemic level. It doesn't matter what happened yesterday, what matters is what it is today, and it's important that we all correct the mistake together today. We can, I believe, be proud. I will absolutely support this amendment. I conclude by saying that there is no crisis that should make our children hungry.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u184	Mr. Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u185	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will support this amendment. I will not talk about why we are in a situation where we have hungry children, because today we are celebrating 20 years from the first elections in the National Assembly and you as Vice-President of the Society of Members 90 today at 5 p.m. I am inviting you back to this Chamber for a joint consideration of today's moment. I would also like our children to be raised about what food means. I would like to have a sign in our school restaurants or dining rooms, not just the sign that we carry in our souls the proverb: If you love bread, take it and kiss it, Anton Martin Slomšek. And there's one more thing. I also supported the previous amendment, which gave 16 million to higher education. But I do have one lump in my throat, a colleague and a colleague. We talk so much about students, we've given only 4 million 800,000 to students, 11.2 million we've given to pay. Yeah, docs and assistants have too low wages. Today we have not talked about fictitious contracts and we have not talked about what I heard yesterday and today we have received confirmation that, I emphasise, it is not verified that the University of Ljubljana has €50 million tied up. Here's our big task, colleagues and colleagues. Our mission is this, I believe you agree with me that our hands must share bread, not granite cubes. I invite you to follow the New Slovenia Group in these thoughts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u186	Can we vote? One more explanation. Because there aren't many, maybe you wouldn't open the application. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, there's 10 of them, okay, and then there's the check-in. Mr. Franz Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u187	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Say hello to my friends and friends again! The debate on the amendments to higher education, the school diet, kind of impressed me and encouraged me to say that this is the right way of dialogue in the National Assembly and that a lot of people should take a look at the video on TV3 to see how convincing it can be to discuss in these benches. It's right that when we talk about school meals, we're subtle. I recall the period 2004-2008 when the laws were adopted and when these rights were allocated. I also recall the period 2008-2011 when some of these rights were falling, but for objective reasons. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this was not done because there was no heart for this to happen, but because the financial situation dictated it. In view of the way you have discussed it, I can say, on my behalf, as well as on behalf of the Members and Members of our Group, that we will vote in favour of this! That's the end of it. Since there's a lot of talk about hungry children, I've decided to take so much time, even though I won't be sitting in these benches in the National Assembly to visit all the principals of primary schools in my constituency, and I'll do a thorough analysis of this because if they're hungry, then my heart will really hurt.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u188	Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u189	The president and the other colleagues! Today we have proven that there is still hope for Slovenian politics, today we have proved that he has won a healthy mind and I am very happy. I am grateful to everyone who understands the message that we should not take anything from children, even if it is a crisis. Even if there are problems, there are no poor and rich children. We must not allow anyone to be hungry, especially when talking about children. Just as someone introduced his life earlier, so I can say for myself that I once received a free lunch at primary school, because parents did not have enough resources to pay all the obligations, because there were also six of us children and I am very happy to think that way today. I do not know how this error has happened to someone in the draft budget to be taken up on this item. But to the one who dared to propose this change, I say that he should think about his actions and never allow himself to do so again, because children are our greatest wealth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u190	Mrs. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u191	Thank you, President, for your word. I was in a lot of trouble yesterday. I'm not anymore. In the previous debate, I said that before the consolidation of public finances, our awareness and our reason must be consolidated and we have done so. I will vote in favour of the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u192	Mr. Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u193	I think that today's event in this House is proof that we are not without ears, that we are not without eyes and, above all, that we are not without heart. That Slovenian policy is able to understand where the challenges are and where the problems are right now. I am very happy about this, so I will vote in favour of this amendment. It's also because it realizes our concern for the children. Slovenia is in crisis, Slovenia has many problems. Many of these problems are such that they often seem hopeless, but at the same time this country is still among the most developed countries in the world. This country is still among the rich countries of the world, according to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development scale, so it is right not to allow hungry children to exist among us in Slovenia for the 21st century. This amendment saves this, and in this amendment I also see the possibility that, in the next step with common powers, without mutual accusation, without finding the culprit, but because this is right and because we are doing well together, we also support the School Food Act. I will support this attitude of Slovenian politics today and next.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u194	Procedural Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u195	I may even use this procedure, but I have to say it, and it's gonna be hard to stop me. I am pleased that this agreement has been reached and I would ask – I will not appoint them – Members or ministers to put more energy into solving problems and less in writing fruitless tweets. Sometimes fingers are faster than brains, but there's one thing I need to tell you. The new president of the country gave me no instructions, he gave me instructions on how to vote, my mind, and I hope that this lame tweet will go slowly from the website. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u196	Mag. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! I like that we are united when it comes to the well-being of the wider community, especially our children. I'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u198	Mr. Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u199	Your Honor! It's very pleasant for me today. Not just because of this amendment, but because we're talking about who made the mistake, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter who warned you about the mistake. It is important that we recognize the error and that we are prepared to eliminate it. That's why I'm going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u200	Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u201	Thank you so much for saying that. There are some messages in this session. First of all, the item that we are about to vote on is three times the amount we need, despite the fact that there is an economist at the top of each corner. Those who have dealt with the budget and the implementation of the budget have also made this mistake. We know what we're gonna do. Secondly, we know that this can be remedied by transfers within a law that we will later adopt in the same way. We could add 9 million as we're going to have to subtract 14 to get to that real number. However, I will also support this issue in order to correct the errors of the previous mandate. When the Ministry of Labour, Svetlikovo, proposed to the Minister of State Dr Luksic to check the censorship, he refused to do so. That is also why these items and these problems were in co-financing primary and secondary education and other education. Because of the stubbornness of some ministers who were warned, these errors were not corrected. Another realization — that the lie is very easy, including with the president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u202	Mrs. Sasha Kos.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u203	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! I am very pleased that I am not a conflict figure alone and I am inclined to see certain matters for the welfare of citizens and citizens of Slovenia resolved in the way that has happened today. I'm so happy for you. We have shown some consistency in the case of a layer or a young person’s conflict. If I get attached to being in Switzerland recently. For the second time in my life, I was in the congregation of Domžal for 12 years in the congregation, and we are associated with a congregation in Zurich. I was surprised they didn't have a proper school diet there. They don't even have a proper diet in kindergarten. That's why I was very hurt because I saw that, despite the fact that we all see some very high culture in Switzerland, they're at this point. I was very surprised. Once again, I would be happy to support these two amendments. At other points, I expect the same thing that happened this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u204	Mrs. Maria Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u205	Thank you for your word. I must say that I will be happy to support this proposal. I must also say that in the 1950s, primary school children received food from UNRRA. It was a free meal and it was not taken care of by the state, it was not decided by Members or I do not know who, but we had children full of stomachs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u206	We vote on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia to the Sub-programme Food of Students, Students and Students. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 85 votes against none. [[The vote was 85.]] [[No one.]] / applause/ With this, the amendment under point 2 has become irrelevant. We decide on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget as a whole. Procedurally, Mrs. Maja Dimitrovski.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u207	Thank you for your word. Pursuant to Article 73(2) of the Rules of Procedure in the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia is required to take a 30-minute recess for the consultation of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u208	I'm adjourning the session and we'll continue at 13.10.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u209	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We'll continue our adjourned session. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u210	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The budget that we are going to decide on is still unrealistic, bad and not developmental. The government assumes responsibility for the budget, but we are pleased that you have heard at least these two parts and that in at least these two parts, together with colleagues from SD, we have managed to provide additional funds for higher education and child nutrition. Members of Positive Slovenia will vote each on their own conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u211	Thank you. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the 2013 supplementary draft budget as a whole. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 11. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that a specific part of the supplementary draft budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision-making plan for development programmes. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 13. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 13.]] The development programme plan has been adopted. We have concluded our decision on individual parts of the supplementary draft budget. The representative of the Government will now probably tell us that the state budget proposal for revenue and expenditure is not harmonised and that we will need a harmonisation amendment. Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Indeed, the Government notes that because of the two amendments adopted under the 2013 budget, namely the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, the budget is not harmonised and the Government should therefore prepare a harmonisation amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u213	On the basis of the Government's opinion, I find that the draft state budget is not harmonised. The government should prepare an amendment for harmonisation in due time – then I will call. Until the amendment, the mother's working body will also be identified. I interrupt this agenda item, not the sitting. First, we will vote on the 2014 budget and then, because we are likely to come to the same situation, I will interrupt the meeting due to the Committee's reference to finance and monetary policy. That's what I'm breaking up with. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the 2014 supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the supplementary draft budget. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 55 votes in favour, 16 votes in favour. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the general part of the supplementary draft budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. We decide on the amendments tabled. First, budget user 2130 – Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. We decide on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to the Mines sub-programme and the rehabilitation of mining damage. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 45. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 45.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Budget user 2431 – Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. First of all, the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 46. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 46.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the second amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to the same sub-programme. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are also deciding on the third amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to the same sub-programme. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] The amendment has not been accepted. The fourth amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to the same sub-programme. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 46. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 46.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Budget user 2611 – Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. We decide on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to the Sub-programme Creation of Jobs. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 46. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Budget user 3330 – Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia to the sub-programme Research programmes and projects. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 9. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The amendment was accepted. With the same budgetary user, we are deciding on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to the Sub-programme of Cultural Support Activities. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 43. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 43.]] The amendment has not been accepted. With the same budgetary user we decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors Positive Slovenia to the Sub-programme Food of Students, Students and Students. Procedural Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u214	In this case, is the same problem as in the previous one? It would be good if someone would warn you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u215	We will vote on the first amendment. If it is accepted, the other becomes irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia to the Sub-programme Food of Students, Students and Students. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. With this, the amendment under point 2 has become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the 2014 supplementary draft budget as a whole. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 59 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] A specific part of the 2014 supplementary draft budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision-making plan for development programmes. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present and 57 votes against 9. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The development programme plan has been adopted. We have concluded our decision on individual parts of the supplementary draft budget. State Secretary Zivkovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u216	Dear Members and Members! We also note for 2014 that the budget is uncoordinated due to the recently adopted amendment and will be drafted by the Government for this purpose by the harmonisation amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u217	On the basis of the Government's opinion, I note that the 2014 state budget proposal is not harmonised. The government should prepare an amendment by 2 p.m. to harmonise the state budget proposal. Until the amendment of the Government, it will also define the labour force, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. The board meeting will be in the big salon at 2 p.m. I interrupt this agenda item and also the 23rd extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 2.30 p.m. In 10 minutes' time, the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth will begin its 16th emergency session in the large hall in Tomšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u218	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I inform you that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has not yet done its work, so I am adjourning the meeting by 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u219	Colleagues and colleagues! The report is ready, the harmonisation amendments will be on the table within 10 minutes, which means that I am suspending the session until 15.15.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u220	Mr President, is that all right now or is there another separate opinion?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u221	Excuse me? I didn't understand the question, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u222	I ask whether the content of these harmonisation amendments is okay or do you have another separate opinion?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u223	Good.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u224	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue the 23rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, this is by considering and voting on the Government's amendment to harmonise the 2013 state budget proposal If this meeting were after the new year, when we're already doing electronics, we'd save about half an hour as much as it takes to photocopy and share material, so that you'll all be satisfied then. Would you like a word from the government? Aleš Zivkovic, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The amendments adopted to the specific part of the 2013 budget required a harmonisation amendment in order to harmonise the general part of the budget and the development programme plan. If I can explain the content of the harmonisation amendment itself a little bit. The aim is to increase the action of higher education activities by €16 million with the user of the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport and to reduce the EU budget contribution by the Ministry of Finance. In addition, with the same user, the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, the action Regression of diet for pupils is increased by 11.85 million. The same amount also increases the regression measure for pupils. For the total amount of 23.7 million, the Ministry of Finance reduces the interest service measure on domestic debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u226	I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy of Mags. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to draw your attention to or announce an amendment to the 2013 draft budget for the Republic of Slovenia, under heading 190801 Food of students, students and students. The correct amount is 23 million 700, and not as written, 2 million 370 thousand. There must have been a typographical error. This is a correction of this report. I mean, the President, we can do it this way. Add one zero. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, on the basis of the amendments adopted to the specific part of the 2013 draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia, has increased the funding under the 190502 sub-programme by 16 million and the resources under the 190801 sub-programme. This amendment has been drafted by the Government, and the committee has supported this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u228	Thank you. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? If not, then we are moving on to a decision on the amendment to harmonise the state budget proposal. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] The harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 as a whole. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 56 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 has been adopted with a considerable degree of unity. On the basis of Rule 163, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the National Assembly that it adopt the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly authorises the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and the monetary policy of mags. Andrea Shirtzlj, Ambassador of Mag. Stanka Stepišnik and Member Bojan Starman to prepare, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, on the basis of the decisions taken, the final text of the 2013 budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] The decision is adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I just wanted to let you know about one thing. You have already been informed in advance that today, if we do not conclude, we will interrupt today at 4 p.m. because of the 90th Parliamentary Academy. If we're done by 4:00, we won't have to continue. If you don't, we'll continue the meeting at 7 p.m. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration and vote on the amendment of the Government to harmonise the draft state budget for 2014. Would you like a word from the government? Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u229	Thank you again, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! As in 2013, the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 was the same. Two amendments have been tabled, requiring a harmonisation amendment, due to the general part of the budget and the development programme plan. To summarize the contents of the amendments themselves. With the user, the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport will increase the measure's research activity by €16 million. For the same amount, the measure Serviced interest on domestic debt to the user of the Ministry of Finance shall be reduced. In addition, with the user, the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport increases the rate of regression for pupils by 11.85 million. For the same amount, the measure Regression of diet for pupils is increased. While with the user, the Ministry of Finance reduces the interest on domestic debt by €23.7 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u230	The President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy does not want a word. Representatives of parliamentary groups, perhaps? No, no, no. I'm putting the harmonisation amendment to the vote. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 as a whole. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 55 votes in favour, 11 votes in favour. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 has been adopted. On the basis of Rule 163, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the National Assembly that it adopt the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly authorises the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and the monetary policy of mags. Andrea Shirtzlj, Ambassador of Mag. Stanka Stepišnik and Member of Mr Bojan Starman to prepare, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the final text of the 2014 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the decisions taken. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] The decision is adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014. We are moving on to second reading, that is to decide on the amendments tabled. It will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 6 December 2012. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 26. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 5. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 5.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 48 of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 47. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 47.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Amendment of Article 51 of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 47. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 47.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Now we have the amendments to Article 55. First of all, the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia to Article 55. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] The amendment has not been accepted. The amendment of the parliamentary groups Positive Slovenia and the National Charter to Article 59 will not be put to the vote because the Legislative and Legal Service has drawn up an opinion that this amendment governs the same social relationship as is regulated by the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Finance Balance Act, which was tabled before this law. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments to Article 62. First of all, the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] Since the amendment under point 2 is identical, this is the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, the decision on the first amendment has also been taken on the second amendment, so we will not vote in particular. We still have an amendment to Article 62(3), which is an amendment to the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 2. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. The amendments of the parliamentary groups, the amendments of the Group of Social Democrats and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia to Article 64 are essentially the same and we are voting on both at the same time. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 45. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 45.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Even under point 3 – Amendment of Article 64 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 23. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments to Article 65. The amendments under points 1 and 2, which are the amendments of the Group of Social Democrats and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia, are essentially the same, so we are voting on both together. If adopted, the amendment of the coalition groups under point 3 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 46. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Amendment of Article 65 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 25. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 25.]] The amendment was accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and thus a second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that, in second reading, the National Assembly adopted amendments to Articles 51, 62, 64 and 65 of the amended Law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to the open article? No, no, no. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. No amendments were tabled in the draft law for the third reading. The Legal and Legal Service and the Government have not informed me of any inconsistencies, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u231	Dear Members and Members! The law on budget implementation is a bad law. We've prepared several amendments to at least partially correct your bad marriage. You haven't accepted one. We regret that you do not allow us to abstain from doing so, and we will vote against it. Among other things, this law allows for the political lustration of directors of public institutions. You will again do what is in your habit. Politically speaking, you will abandon the directors because you have prevented them from doing well and doing well, and then in a few years you will wonder why it is worse in this area than it was when you took over the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u232	On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u233	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. We'll support the marriage. We have been waiting for the breakup of Article 62, which says what we have proposed – that in Kad will be allocated as much resources as will be available from the sale of state property, that 10% will arrive in Kad, not to alienate or sell assets and provide 120 million per year or 190 million, as recorded in the financial plan, to the Pension and Disability Insurance Office. We will preserve the value of Kad and will be able to take from Kad only as much as will come from selling state property to Kad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u234	Mag. Alenka Bratušek on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u235	Thank you. In Positive Slovenia we will not support the law because it is bad and because it gives the Government too much power, the National Assembly has a smaller role to play. This is a key reason, in addition to the above mentioned, what you plan to do with public institutions and how much you plan to increase the indebtedness of our country. Once again, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u236	Thank you. Mr. Mirko Brulc in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u237	Thank you very much. We have just over 400 public institutions in education and education. I will now tell the principals and principals that they will not be able to resign, because they will not be able to save. They can cut the heat, it'll freeze tomorrow – will the kids freeze? The school programme needs to be implemented; the number of teachers cannot be reduced because the learning obligation is what it is; the standards are what they are, so they will break the law. In order not to do so, they will be able to resign and you will adjust your personnel and then probably get better. I can't support such a stupid marriage. It's going to cause a lot of damage to all public institutions. This is the lustration of the directors and directors of these public institutions. The way that came to your mind, I have no idea. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u238	Mag. Dean Jedhan in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u239	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to describe to you in the case of the medical institutions what you've done with this law. You took their money, you forced the directors to act positively, or they'll be suspended. Where can they save? They can save only on the health of citizens and citizens. That's what they're gonna do. With this you have compromised the curative and preventive nature of the health activities of the Slovenian state, and I am sorry and I am sorry that this is the case. As the opposition, we would like to stop this by 10 votes of the Social Democrats, but since there are only 10 of us, we cannot do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u240	Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u241	By my vote against the law on the implementation of the budget, I would like to point out to all Members and Members that we have missed the opportunity to ensure, by maintaining the level of the RTV contribution at the current level, the normal operation of this largest Slovenian public cultural and information institution. Unfortunately, it was not possible to vote on a proposal for a decision which would also refer to the National Assembly to the recommendation of the home labour body, because we had suspended the meeting before the vote, but I am reminding you again. What you have done has nothing to do with the state budget because it is a duty of individual debtors for RTV contribution. Our decision was this, and I think that this decision caused harm to all viewers and viewers, listeners and audiences of the Slovenian public service RTV Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-06-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u242	We are voting on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 30. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also the 23rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Please take all the materials out of the hall so that the services can prepare everything necessary for the festive academy at the 20th anniversary of the first elections in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
