ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues, parliamentary vacations and vacations are far away, we have already forgotten how it was, but today for the first time in a little while we will see each other again in this hall, welcome! I begin the 6th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Today's session cannot be attended by the following colleagues: mag. Alenka Bratusek, Masha Kociper, mag. Melita Zupevec and Tina Komel. I have invited the meeting to the 1st item of the agenda, i.e. parliamentary questions, the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers, and the Secretary-General of the Government, Ms Elena Pečarič, representative of the legislative initiative, to the 16th item of the agenda of the Ombudsman, Dr. Zdenko Čebašek Travnik, and to all other items of the agenda of the Government's representatives. We are moving on to the agenda for the 6th meeting of the National Assembly. You received your proposal on Friday, 14 September 2012, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any motions to withdraw a point from the agenda. We will decide on the proposal to extend the agenda, namely the Proposal for a Law on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, following an urgent procedure. Following an agreement at the College on 21 September, I propose that the agenda of the 6th meeting of the National Assembly be extended by considering this proposal. You received the proposal for enlargement by letter dated 21 September. There are no government representatives. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Janko Weber has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Extending the agenda with the Proposal for a Law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks will be opposed in the Group of Social Democrats. At its meeting last week last Thursday, the government adopted the text of this law, forwarded it to the procedure, decided on Friday at the College, and this week the National Assembly is to decide how we will manage the bad claims on banks. However, the fact is that in this process, of course, there is a whole range of dangers in the sense that we can actually do even more harm in Slovenia than it would be if the National Assembly knew what the decision was. It is unacceptable for us that under this law Banka Slovenije will not be able to influence which claims will be transferred from the bank to a bad bank. We have no explanation why it is good that the date for the transfer of bad claims is 2012 because it is a fact that banks will try to transfer to this new company that will manage these claims as much investment as possible. This is pure gambling, and this gambling is unacceptable to us in these difficult economic and financial circumstances, because every mistake will now be extremely serious about how we will manage our economic and social situation in Slovenia. If we do not know what claims are passed on to a new society and with what amounts, this is the biggest gamble that can happen in the National Assembly to make a decision, we do not know how this matter will take place. Those who run a bad investment management company will decide for themselves which claim they will take, which one they will not. There is no secret that these same ones who will run this society will be appointed by the current government. There is no secret that the personnel coming into these new societies are strictly politically oriented and are not experts of a broad spectrum who would think about the state and social problems as such in the country. Thus, this inadequacy makes it impossible for us to talk about extending the agenda of the meeting of the National Assembly today and deciding on such an important law on Friday. We will therefore oppose enlargement in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u3	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Our Group of Members will support the proposal to extend the agenda of this meeting. The reasons are obvious. The former Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Pahor, has already found that his government, in his presidency, has misdiagnosed, says she has dealt with public financial problems, and they have found later, as is said in this mandate, Mr Pahor, that the key problem is the banking system. In view of the fact that a misdiagnosis was made at the time, there were also largely the wrong measures, the wrong drugs, and therefore Slovenia came into the situation it was in. We now have a diagnosis, the measures envisaged are measures, i.e. medicines to cure this banking system, and I expect this proposal to receive sufficient support to begin the rehabilitation of the banking system, which is in fact the problem of the entire economic sector, also the law, and that these matters will also begin to be dealt with expeditiously. In addition to all other other accompanying measures already taken under this mandate. We're in a situation where we know what the problem is. We are in a situation where we have a proposal for a measure to solve this problem, so after all these statements there is no longer any additional time, because we have already lost it in one way or another, virtually the entire previous mandate, in order to further theorize and discuss whether it is gambling or political recruitment or anything. Mr Pahor said that his previous government had misdiagnosed. This government is making a diagnosis and this government will have to take full responsibility for taking action. I count that if something is kept in the words of one of the politicians, this proposal to expand the agenda, because it is an extremely important measure, it will also get wider, not just coalition support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u5	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate on the proposal for enlargement and move on to a decision on the proposal to expand the agenda by considering the draft law on urgent measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. Please check your voting devices. Insert the cards and we vote on the proposal to expand the agenda. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, for 51, for 10. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will consider the draft law as item 3a of the agenda on Friday, 28 September 2012, at 10 a.m. and on Thursday, the draft law will address the labour force, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. We are moving on to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that for the 6th regular meeting a specific agenda as received by reference and with an adoption of an extension. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, for 67, for 2. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the agenda for the 6th meeting of the National Assembly is set. I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. on the 1st item of the agenda, with questions from Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u6	We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, THESE ARE THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received in writing 53 questions from the Member States within the time limit. The order shall be established on the basis of an agreement with the heads of the parliamentary groups, in accordance with Article 244, second paragraph of Article 245 and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On the first two questions of members of the opposition and on the question of a ruling coalition Member, the Prime Minister of the Government will answer this time due to his official absence on Tuesday 2. 10 a.m., 12 a.m. agreement between the National Assembly and the Government and in agreement with the leaders of the parliamentary groups. The rules are the way they always are. Each Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The minister has five minutes to respond. Option to make a request to complete the response. The possibility to request a discussion on the response to the next meeting of the National Assembly. If the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. Of course, a Member may also request an oral reply. In this case, I will place the question at the next meeting of the National Assembly. They apologized for today: Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mrs Ljudmila Novak, Minister without a Resource, and Dr Janez Šuštersič will be absent after 20 hours, and now he is here between us. You have received an overview of the questions sent to you, which is an overview of questions that have not been answered within the deadline of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, first questions raised are raised at the 4th and 5th meetings of the National Assembly. The ministers are making up for the backlog. Minister of Finance Janez Šuštersič will first answer Mrs Patricia Šulin's question regarding the planned merger of Durs and CURS. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u7	Nicely greeted! The question raised by the Member was how the activities relating to the planned merger of the tax and customs administration are taking place. We have decided to set 1 as the target date when we actually make this merger operational. Seven. 2013 This is the expected date of Croatia's entry into the European Union, for which a greater reorganisation of the customs administration has already been planned, so that these two processes are combined. The question was how the activities were carried out. Activities take place by preparing, on the one hand, an analysis of the situation, of the structure, within a working group. We are preparing somehow a functional structure of the future Joint Authority, so the Association of Customs and Tax Services is said to be. The working name of this is the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the short term will also be interesting, and therefore the expected structure of jobs, the number of employees, the necessary qualifications of employees. In autumn, this is said to be the end of the year we will also draw up a proposal for a law to regulate this joint service. In the meantime, additional activities are already under way, as we have said, we have called on both services to prepare joint activities, in the framework of the competences they already have, to try to organise joint actions in particular in the area of the pursuit of the grey economy, the search for work in black. In the past, the Customs Administration has already adopted certain activities or responsibilities in the area of recovery in particular. Here are possible improvements already, said without any changes, mergers and so on. We also talked about trying to bring together two administrations somewhere at local level to see how this works and we are actively working on it. Of course, merger, the new legal basis will actually enable joint so-called mobile units to be strengthened by investigating the worst tax evasions, such as black and gray economies on the ground, so we will continue these activities. As far as the staffing session is concerned, this will depend on the reduction of tasks related to Croatia's entry into the EU and on the fact that there are always synergies in the integration of services. We do not expect the total number of employees to be the same as the number they would get if they were to count those employed on both boards today. Some may find work in other inspections. Of course, there will also be a need to follow the government's general guidelines on reducing public sector labour costs next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u8	Thank you very much. The next question raised at the previous meeting of Dr Šuštersič was Mr Mirk Brulc's question regarding the implementation of the decisions on tax treatment of cutting premiums and the modification of the destination of fishing vessels. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Brulc asked about the implementation of the two decisions of the National Assembly Committee on the taxation of premiums for the decommissioning of fishing vessels. The first conclusion was that tax treatment should be regulated in accordance with the Regulation of the European Union. Our understanding of the current European regime is such that the premium that someone receives for the permanent cessation of the fishing permit, including the cost-sharing of the cut, the change in the destination of fishing vessels and so on, can only be regarded as income from activities. However, the reason for this is that, on the other hand, all these costs are also seen as costs for fishing activities, the changes in the destination of vessels and other adaptations. So if there's some money to cover the costs, it's just income. We believe that the regulation we have is already in line with the EU regulation. This regulation also does not regulate the mode of taxation, but merely the content of the premium, its purpose, and this is what our legislation takes into account and, in accordance with this purpose, also taxes our understanding. Nor would it make sense for us to amend the Income Act in such a way that, for example, these income premiums would be excluded from the tax revenue, because this would result in unequal treatment of the debtors, because some of the debtors would be placed in a position where some of the income from the activity would not be counted as part of the taxable income without having been given any particular reason. In addition, let me explain that the situation may not be as black as this premium, as it is said, represents the income of fishing activities, which means that, in order to determine the tax base, all the costs that a person has with a cut, with a change in destination and so on, and is not actually taxable the whole premium, but the difference between what is likely to be a much smaller amount. Secondly, if this subsidy for the cessation of fishing activities were to be used by that fisherman for restructuring purposes, for the purchase of certain other funds or the like, he could even consider it an investment of some kind and even allocate the premium as income for several years and thereby further reduce this obligation. In these minor recommendations, which you will not hear from the Finance Minister on many occasions how meaningful it is to manage tax obligations, I think this matter is clarified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u10	To supplement the answer. Mr. Brultz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Look, it's a cut-in. This is a permanent cessation of fishing activities. This fisherman will no longer be a fisherman. Europe allocates 75% of the subsidies, the country gives 25%, and it takes 50%. What's the logic here? He's got to invest that money in another activity to survive, so he's not going to buy a BMW or I don't know what. I do not think it is fair for the State to take one part of this subsidy from European funds. The competent agricultural committee considered this, and the Minister was present and said it was right that these cuts were not taxed so that the country did not serve. Our fisheries are sinking, unfortunately, because they cannot compete with the Italians, Croats, with the Scandinavians, I don't know what. Now we have two, three, literally cabinets trying to catch something. These should be helped. However, those who have decided not to pursue this activity should be helped to restructure. I therefore object to the need to tax them, even 50%. Mr Minister, I think the country could be so deplorable as to give up this tax because it is a matter of, I don't know, five, six cases on our entire Slovenian coast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u12	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u13	Look, I'd just like to correct these statements a little bit. It's not a cut premium. It is a premium for the permanent withdrawal of the fishing authorisation. Secondly, this premium is not taxed, but the difference between the premium and the costs associated with the suspension of the fishing licence and 50 % is taxed only for those who fall into the highest income class.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u14	Thank you. The Minister will now answer Mr Gaspar Gaspard Mišić's question, which he raised at the previous meeting, on the issue of the resolution of the banking system. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u15	Nicely greeted! Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič asked whether due to the poor operation of the two banks, the New Ljubljana Bank, the New Maribor Credit Bank, we will determine the responsibility of the supervisory and management authorities in both banks and whether we will call on the Bank of Slovenia to take more decisive action or even to take some responsibility. As far as the supervisory and management authorities in both banks are concerned, you were able to monitor for yourself in the past months that the Ministry of Finance, in coordination with the AUKN, in preparing the assemblies, supported solutions that went in the direction of accountability. It was also imposed on the Supervisory Boards, the new ones who were appointed to review the business back, to review the suspicions or audits that had already been carried out, pointing to the possibility of certain injuries or offences, and to report them and to bring them to the competent authorities. We have also started some responsibilities activities ourselves. Together with the Ministry of the Interior, we have set up a working group to this extent, to which, as Minister of Finance, I have access to documentation in banks, we find out where and what kind of violations might occur and inform those authorities that have the power to break it. I think this is where we acted responsibly. There have also been exchanges of supervisory boards, including replacements of administrations, as you can see. And also in the proposal for a law on the stabilisation of the banking system, we propose a special article which will stipulate that, in those cases where there will be a transfer of bad claims from banks to this special company for the management of bank claims, there will be responsibility where there are reasons for it. We do not want to find responsibility where there are some normal business risks, for things that happen in normal business. Surely, however, such a situation as today would not have been if there had been not only negligence but also intentional injury, but also some other infringements of the rules that could be classified as criminal offences. How much of this is there, and I wouldn't risk these assessments as a minister, because I think others are responsible for this and that over time it will show up. You yourself have been informed through the media about some of the procedures already under way and some of the investigations. As far as Banka Slovenije is concerned, the Ministry of Finance is not responsible for determining the responsibility of Banka Slovenije. Banka Slovenije is established only by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It has an independent and independent role in this Constitution and is in line with the National Assembly. The National Assembly appoints the Governor on a proposal from the President of the Republic and the National Assembly is the one who has the possibility, if he deems it necessary, at least to request explanations from the Bank of Slovenia and to determine its responsibility. We and Banka Slovenije, within the framework of our tasks, also care about the stability of the financial system, cooperate and think we are mostly well-cooperating. These questions which you have asked me will have to be asked, given the constitutional division of powers and the independence of the Bank of Slovenia directly to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u16	Thank you. Mr Gaspar Music is asking for an additional reply. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Minister of Explanation. I will be pleased if you can achieve anything and clear up very unscrupulous actions in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, especially with regard to the way Banka Slovenije works as the central guardian of the financial system of the Republic of Slovenia [[..]] I am aware that the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia is great, unfortunately they were not aware of it when they just allowed it to go as it did. Dear Minister, regardless of the fact that Banka Slovenije is directly under the control of the National Assembly, the government has a majority in the National Assembly and would expect you, both from the government and from the Minister of Finance, to act more decisively against all those who have allowed all the credits that have impoverished our banking system. I am aware that there have been normal business risks, but there have been many such and different behaviours, both by banks and by supervisors and by guards, in order to prevent many of the bad investments that we have to deal with today. I call on you and ask you about the concrete measures you will take: Are you going to say that you can do nothing as Minister against the responsibility of Banka Slovenije, Governor of Banka Slovenije, who runs this bank, or will we have to take a step forward in the National Assembly in order to achieve the satisfaction that will be punished by those who have brought this country and the financial system to a state in which we can say only : sad? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u18	Minister? There is nothing more to add, in fact it was not so much a request to complete the agreement. Another question was for the Minister, Mrs Plevčak's question regarding the coordination of pensions and the obligations of Kad to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance in relation to the harmonisation of pensions for this year. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u19	Nicely greeted! The Member State has asked three questions if I am correctly noted. The first question was what will happen this year with the transfer of 50 million from the Capital Society to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. The law is clear here, and he says he's up to 30. 9. These EUR 50 million should be credited to the pension fund. And that's what's gonna happen this year. What will be the fate of these funds on the STIZ? This appropriation is intended to cover the payment of pensions to the PSI. There's one thing I'd like to explain. It is often said, and perhaps also where it says that these funds are intended for the coordination of pensions. And then someone can think if there is no reconciliation of pensions in one year, and then there is no need for these funds to be referred to. The problem is that, for the first time, this would mean that even in the year when, for example, the matching of pensions takes 100 million, 100 million should be announced. Pension is paid in Slovenia for about 4 billion a year. If they harmonise by 1%, this is 40 billion, if they co-ordinate by 2%, for example, this would be wage growth and if they didn't have intervention measures, it's already 80 million. That is to say, if you say now that these funds may be too much, because they have not been reconciled, you will have to admit the next time, but there are too few, and then we will be able to leave very quickly without the assets in Kad, and this property is not enough to cover the harmonisation of pensions indefinitely. The other thing that's even more important is this one. See if we have to harmonise this year if the legislation is such that pensions are harmonised and, say, it takes an additional 50 million. What's next year gonna be? This year, Kad provides them. What's next year gonna be? Next year, all pensioners, who have a harmonised pension this year, have so much higher pensions. And that still requires 50 million more funding. It's just that it's no longer a reconciliation, but it's a basic pension now. And this 50 million has to be found somewhere. And we can only find them in the state budget. And this is one of the reasons why the transfer from the state budget to the pension fund is increasing all the time. We are now in a situation where maybe these 50 million will not be earmarked for harmonisation, which would have been done this year, because it was not available this year, but it will be designed to cover the harmonisations that have been made in previous years and still have to be paid each year. The reconciliation is not paid once, it is not a one-off supplement, but it is an increase in pensions, which is permanent and needs to be provided 50 million each year, and then the next year a new 50 million and so on. As I said, by the way, it's a year more than that. The last question was whether pensioners can finally expect reconciliation in the coming year. We have assumed that there will be no harmonisation of the budget in the coming year. This was one of the measures that allowed us to propose a budget in accordance with the limits and with the objectives that we have set ourselves in this country. There are not many such measures. That's an unpleasant one. But we have proposed it, and it is likely that the Government will also include it in that draft budget that will be adopted and sent to the National Assembly on 4 October in the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u20	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u21	Thanks for the answer. I would only touch on the fact that the issue I raised at the time was in July, so far, a little progress has been made or resolved in terms of coordination or the State Holding Act, where the capital company is also involved in this part. However, I am concerned that these funds, which are intended for pensioners, would not land outside that they are always available when pensions need to be coordinated. I know that pension funds are now benefiting from the budget, but given that it is also foreseen, or on our part, that a pension fund is required to be cleared, given the contribution and the contribution rates, so that these funds are not lost somewhere. These funds are strictly intended, and I hope that at any time we will be able to gain insight into and know where they are and why they have been used. I know they can't stand up to the bill, but these funds, like many years ago, used pension funds to build roads, tunnels and so on. That's what we know, the one we're a little longer in the world. I hope it doesn't happen the same now with these funds. The pensioners just need to be insured, because we've been working for years, investing our energies and creating assets from which, I think, we're entitled to have decent pensions, pensions that we can survive with. And now, I have to say, they're not for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u22	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u23	Just one or two explanations. There are approximately 400 deficits in the pension register. Even if we clean it up, and the proposal for pension reform, as I am aware, provides for some kind of clearance, even the Public Finance Balance Act has already tried to make a clean-up, but even if we clean it up, it will still have a deficit that will be smaller, but it will still be a deficit. I don't think there's any danger of anyone building roads or anything like that from the pension register because they're not going to have anything to do with it. As far as Kato is concerned, that was the essence of your question. We have harmonised the Slovenian State Holding Act over the summer, so that when a single economic and legal person remains within SDH and that all these provisions, that is to say 50 million per year is indicated in the SDH, remain and that this property is protected in this sense that there is a very explicit provision in the law that the assets of Kada are intended or are solely intended for the long-term reserve of the pension system and cannot be used for something else. Given that we've brought this together, I think it's also a solution that's appropriate, given what you've been asking.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u24	Thank you. We've got another backlog from the previous session. This question was raised by the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, namely this question by Mr Jožef Horvat concerning the difficult situation of small enterprises, the abolition of payment non-discipline and the detection of employment and black work. The ministers have a total of five minutes to answer. Minister Visjak will be the first to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u25	Thank you very much, President. Since the Minister of Finance was just responding, he gave me this advantage. The question referred to the Ministry of Labour, which concrete measures we intend to tackle in the Ministry with employment in black. You need to know that we have a job and a job in black. Black work is so-called horticulture, it is the responsibility of a market inspection, while employment is black, it is called the employment of workers without adequate contracts, applications, social insurance, the competence of the labour inspectorate. Let me inform you here that preparations are already under way to amend the law on employment and work in black, in the sense that the customs administration would also be empowered to do so. We believe that we really need to deal more thoroughly with forestry and also with employment in black, that the existing labour inspectors are relatively few, given the increasing problems of other violations of labour law as well. This opens the way for us to engage the customs department. Also due to the fall of the customs border with neighbouring Croatia, quite a number of their workers will also be available for these purposes. This proposal has also been made, and customs are willing to engage themselves in this regard, so I think that this both their skills, their ability and their numbers are appropriate to cut themselves more seriously for this purpose. Then, with the recast of labour law, we now have the ambition to minimise time from employment to social security. We also want to increase the efficiency of the inspection, because it happens a lot of times that an inspector finds someone when he works for someone, and then he says that he has just started working and that he has not yet passed that 8-day period of application for social security. As a result, there are quite a few violations here. Today, it is possible to register social security online immediately, which means there is no more justified reason to have here I do not know how long periods of time. Now we will examine whether it is possible to reduce this time to nothing, that the worker should not work before he has been reported or that it is at least the same day. We are still looking at this in some way, and the unions' objections go in this way. On the other hand, we are aware that this problem is also related to the grey economy, it is said to be this nonsense. Maybe there's more to this than a finance minister who has two minutes left.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u26	Thank you very much. On this point, I would say in particular that, in addition to the things I have already mentioned, cooperation between the tax and customs authorities is also in preparation a proposal for amendments to the tax procedure law, which will allow for the publication of larger taxpayers, those who are longer over a certain threshold amount, have a tax debt in order to encourage the regular settlement of those obligations. We have also prepared some changes in the tax debt insurance measure. We believe that these are the concrete measures that will stimulate, if I say so, the taxpayers to pay taxes on a regular basis. On the other hand, we have also drawn up legislative amendments, which will also come to the National Assembly in a short time, for the flat-rate taxation of small entrepreneurs and independent entrepreneurs or persons who carry out activities, which will, in particular, pursue the objective of administrative simplification and thus a slightly simpler and more predictable compliance with tax obligations, as the complexity of the system and the unpredictability of obligations are often the reason for avoiding tax obligations. As far as the first question of payment non-discipline is concerned, I would just like to remind you of the law on enforcement, which we adopted in June, while we discussed banks and holding companies a lot, with great support, I also think to the public and Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u27	Questions from the previous meeting are raised by the Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr. Žiga Turk. First of all, the questions raised by Mr Sam Bevek regarding the preparation of new nominations for admission to the UNESCO World Heritage List. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u28	Thank you very much. The question has two parts. One is how the following nominations for admission to the UNESCO World Heritage List run, and the other is whether or not we will strengthen some ministry service in this regard. As we know, Slovenia has entered three sites on the UNESCO World Cultural and Natural Heritage List, namely the natural heritage of the Škocjan Cave, which has been in this list for 25 years, and two entries in the Cultural Heritage category, which the Ministry responsible for Culture has successfully coordinated in the past period. These are the prehistoric cradles on Ig, and tomorrow there will be a ceremony in this regard, and the legacy of living silver in Idria, which you certainly know well. Work in the above-mentioned sites continues continuously, focusing mainly on the comprehensive management and sustainable management of these monuments. Currently, activities related to the preparation of nominations for the World Heritage List, together with international partners, are being carried out intensively on two new projects, namely the development of a Dinarski karst nomination involving six Southeast European countries and the architectural works of Jožet Plečnik, possibly together with the Czech Republic. Both projects are complex on a substantive and geographical basis and build on recent experiences of transnational series nominations. Cross-border series nomination Dinarski kras is a pilot project with Unesco's World Heritage Centre. It was agreed that it was a nomination in the field of natural heritage, and we are in charge of the management of this nomination and additionally financed by the Park of the Škocjanska Cave, which somehow belongs in this karst area. But, as I say, this nomination is wider. As regards the nomination of part of the architect Jožet Plečnik, discussions are also held with the Czech Republic. So far, there have been two expert meetings, we are planning a third meeting in the late autumn, and at this meeting we will normally reach all the professional starting points and decide how to proceed. In this case, however, we are leaning towards a transnational nomination due to the international role and international importance of architect Plečnik. On the trial list for the UNESCO Heritage, which was last updated in January 2010 and which means a tool for planning the future work you are asking about, there are currently three units, the classic beauty that will be adequately repaired or extended in the process of preparing the Dinaric Decoration nomination, the Fužin Mountains in Bohinj, too, will need to be properly transformed in order to protect the tradition of pasture, i.e. the skills of intangible heritage, and the Partizan Hospital Franja, which in the meantime acquired the mark of European heritage. Of course, it is also necessary to consider the second Unesco, which means that further steps should be taken to include the Franje hospital in the Unesco list. In the area of intangible or living heritage, the Directorate for Cultural Heritage of the Ministry, together with the Coordinator for the Protection of Living Heritage of the Slovenian Ethnographic Museums, focuses on the establishment of a register of living heritage, which is one of the conditions for the implementation of the Convention on the Protection of Insubstantial Heritage and the necessary precondition for this entry. Today, there are 13 units in the register that have 21 carriers, several units just before entry. In cooperation with the Municipality of Škofja Loka, we have prepared a proposal for the proclamation of a unit at national level, which was confirmed by the Government with a decree and also declared the Škofjeloški solion a living masterpiece of state importance. Together with the carrier of this unit, this is the Municipality of Škofja Loka, activities are under way to prepare a proposal for the entry into UNESCO's list of intangible heritage of mankind. So activities are pretty much something. Unfortunately, because of the budgetary situation and restrictions on employment in the state administration, people who are already employed in the ministry will have to worry about these nominations and further steps in the directions I have listed. There will be no new jobs from this address.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u29	Would you like a supplement, Mr. Bevk? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! I would like to thank Minister Turk for answering my July parliamentary question. At that time, I also thanked him for the successful admission of Idrija and Almadena’s heritage to the World Heritage List, both to him and to his predecessors and to the very good team that prepared this nomination. The Minister's reply gave all relevant facts, all the news, but I would like to say that neighbouring countries are relatively more successful in this area, although we have come slightly closer to Croatia with regard to the number of entries on the UNESCO World Heritage List. Slovenia has, as it is said, three entries, Croatia seven. However, we do not have any entries on the list of living world heritage and Croatia has twelve. I would therefore appeal that in this area activities be accelerated, as this is an opportunity for the development of tourism, economic activities, not least for the recognition of Slovenia in the world. That Croatia is so successful, says the fact that, within the Ministry responsible for this area, there are only seven employees in our Ministry of Labour. I believe that a team could be formed from the quota already employed by the Ministry, which, together with the local communities, could work more rapidly on these projects in the future. I would therefore appeal and call on the minister to consider it in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u31	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I welcome your initiative. The fact is, as far as the insubstantial heritage is concerned, we have 13 units in the register from which we will draw those from which we will enter Unesco. This assessment of the fact that all things related to UNESCO are dealt with by one person alone may be somewhat exaggerated because it is a monument, such and different, or for the cultural heritage of this and the form in which they are employed at the appropriate time and according to the needs of the entire service or all those employed at the Ministry of Culture. As you know, within our ministry there is also the Unesco Office, which then provides for contacts with the Paris headquarters. But, as I said, I take this initiative as appropriate and welcome it as an incentive to do as much in this area as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u33	Minister Turk has another question from the previous meeting, the question of mags. Majde Potrat in relation to the situation in higher education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u34	Thank you very much. In her question, Ambassador Majda Potrat warns that universities are warning against the consequences of the government's actions in terms of budget cuts in higher education and asks how the ministry will, I quote, "prevent the programme poverty of public higher education institutions, reduce the availability of studies and brain drains abroad". In the State budget, the funding for higher education decreased by 8.7% this year compared to the 2011 implementation. We see no reason for this to lead to bankruptcy in higher education institutions. The Public Finance Balance Act provided for, provided for, some austerity measures, a reduction in salaries, the retirement of employees who have the conditions for full pension, some of which have not been fully exploited by the institutions. In addition, according to our information or publicly available information, higher education institutions from previous years have several resources, surpluses over expenditure, and have opportunities for an unspoiled or minimally reduced variety of programmes they offer. This means that they combine some objects that are similar, or that the same subject that is available in different directions is actually taught only once and are listened to together by students. Unfortunately, austerity measures are needed at all levels and in all areas, but the higher education institutions are ultimately those who decide how to implement them, decide on their width and depth and are responsible for their decisions. The Ministry also faces a difficult economic situation and budgetary constraints. At the edge of some, I also argue in this high assembly or in the media that there is no market dictatorship here that we would like to bow to in order to reduce public spending. Markets don't dictate anything, the problem is that markets don't give us money. And somewhere else than the market, money can't be made unless you have a printery. And we don't have this printery. Last week, Mr Šuštaršič will explain or two weeks ago, we tried to offer these markets 250 million financial instruments and managed to sell them only 150 million. It's not a dictatorship, it's a lack of resources and it's a matter of trying to do what we can within the means at our disposal. Not because we wouldn't like education, not because we wouldn't like higher education, but because we're running out of funds. In case of major problems of universities and other institutions, the Ministry will do everything in its power to overcome obstacles in order to achieve an optimal solution. In doing so, we will use all possible resources and act in accordance with higher education law. The availability of studies and brain drains, which you are also asking, are not areas that concern only our ministries, but these two issues need to be addressed more comprehensively. This means that support solutions such as scholarships, credit studies should also be included. Above all, the question of how we have a labour market in Slovenia and what jobs are offered is the question of how to escape the brain. I am confident that many of this will also be resolved by the amendment of the Labour Relations Act, which will make this labour market more flexible and will likely open up more opportunities for youth employment. The general reform measures taken by this government also aim to make the Slovenian economy more favourable to employees who are highly qualified or to open highly demanding jobs with high added value. The higher education institutions are those who decide on the number of vacancies, decide on the selection criteria, decide on the offer and will have to adapt it to the financial options available. But as I say, in 2012 they were not catastrophically worse than in 2011.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u35	Mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr Minister, for this part of the answer, which is moving in the sign of what has already been heard, already said and also expected. This mantra, which you keep repeating, how the higher education must also take on its part of saving, it is not even denied in higher education. The question is whether saving is proportionate and why save on the part where, according to the OECD, each investment in a student is reimbursed with a six-folder or even a seven-folder. So much for that. You were also talking about legality, and there's something I'd like to say about it. The resolution on the National Higher Education Programme 2011-2020, adopted last May, states in its introduction that higher education and its associated scientific research are at the heart of the development ambitions of the Republic of Slovenia. Higher education is a priority for the Republic of Slovenia, especially during the current difficult period of the global economic crisis. I believe that in many ways the measures taken by the Ministry do not comply with the legislation in force, such as the regulation adopted by the Government at the end of August and decided to co-finance a doctoral study in private institutions. This co-financing is not envisaged after the resolution. Perhaps it would be interesting to hear some things on account of what we've heard a lot lately. The law on higher education, proposed for adoption by emergency procedure, no matter what was concluded at the meeting of the committee, you decided to send to the National Assembly after a reduced procedure. In view of how they define each other, this decision is very interesting. Still, I'm sorry. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u37	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Dear Member, I cannot answer that question any more than I have already heard. In fact, I was stabbed only by this observation of yours when you quoted the resolution, and we were told that higher education, science, we did not treat it as a priority. I am prepared to take full responsibility for this if, at the Ministry, we have unduly deprived the other of the weighting between higher education, science, education, culture and sport. With regard to your reading of the amendment to the Higher Education Act, I think it is positive that we should welcome that we have allowed more time to discuss the fact that we have changed the urgent procedure into a shorter one. And that we are really worried about how higher education institutions will overcome this crisis. Let me introduce you to Friday, 21. 9. 2012 organized a consultation, a well-occupied consultation of senior stakeholders in Brdo pri Kranju with foreign lecturers, where we discussed how to introduce and how to help yourself with crisis management in higher education. We can't really give money sometimes, but we try to help with knowledge and we try to help with measures that allow even smaller funds to remain intact.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u39	Here you go, mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u40	Thank you. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on the reply of Minister Žiga Turk. I'll give you a few reasons. When I talk about how higher education has been put into the system of austerity measures, of course I am not only referring to this area within the area covered by the Minister, but also to the state and attitude of this sector within the overall social situation. It is about the belief that this part of the population, which I think is the most stimulating and to overcome the crisis, is also willing to assume its share of responsibility and, with its innovative and creative achievements, it also helps to do so, is considered unacceptable, in such a written way that it is obvious that they are not working, that it is possible to give up a lot of experts just because someone sees ideological connotations of things. Here we go, Mr. Minister, in fact for an ideological question of how to see it. The resolution contains information that we have more than 30 independent private higher education institutions and 5 universities. And at the same time as we save, there is a process of demands for the establishment of new universities. I mean, private education isn't a problem in itself. The problem is that private education is financed by public funds. And if you look at about 145 programmes that they consider to be business and economic social policies, there are 55 in private higher education institutions. This is said not to be in line with the resolution to be financed from public funds by those study lines which are new or which are scarce, but which are, according to the findings, the cheapest. And now the last. See, a committee on which, for education, the ministry has called for a broad public debate on the challenges and perspectives of higher education with a view to adapting strategic documents and systemic legislation and so on. But the fact that you have changed the law on higher education from the emergency procedure that predicted disaster to a reduced procedure does not allow such a debate. That's why I suggest we do this. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u41	Thank you. Now we're going to the current questions, we've exhausted the ones from the previous session. First, the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. Andrej Vizjak. The question will be raised by Mr Jerko Čehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. I will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs about a matter that has, in fact, a long-standing beard not only in this country but in the previous one. I didn't know these things myself until I heard from members of the Primorska Civil Disability Society, who had become disabled before the year 15. 9. 1947. Dear Minister, in what way or in what time will the Ministry solve the problem of civilians with disabilities? As early as 2010, the Ministry's Working Group decided, by means of a document on the issue of civil disabled persons of war, that compensation belonged to both civil disabled persons of war who had enjoyed rights before 15 September 1947 under Italian rules, such as those who had been interrupted by 15 September 1947 and who had not yet completed or unlawfully completed the procedure before the competent authority of the Italian Republic and those former Italian citizens who had been injured by 15 September 1947, and by that date had not submitted an application for the enforcement of invalidity status and rights under Italian rules, and in the former Yugoslavia, that type of years had been disabled or otherwise, the former State had violated a number of international treaties, regulations. Mr. Minister, please answer this question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u43	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u44	Dear Member, thank you very much for your question. It is true that the Interdepartmental Working Group on the Disability of Persons with Disabilities and the Assistance of the Primorska Civil Disability Society collected a number of data and also provided information on this issue with a proposal for a position. This is an opinion and an assessment of the total amount of necessary budgetary resources for the proposed solutions of more than €15 million. It also requested an opinion from the State Defence Office of the Republic of Slovenia on the obligation of the Republic of Slovenia to pay fair compensation to citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian coast. The State Defence Service has examined the issue and possible liability of the Republic of Slovenia as the legal successor of the SFRJ, which has not legalised the protection of these persons with disabilities or has done so with delay, but has not paid compensation from the financial resources provided to it by reparations on the basis of recorded documents. The Office of Defence has examined the possibilities of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal successor of the SFRJ, to suspend acts. We also received this opinion in 2011 and the State Attorney's Office explained that any compensation claims with this damage were obsolete. In accordance with Article 352 of the Bond Code of Indemnity for damage caused in three years, from which the injured party has found the damage and for the cause of the damage, the claims shall in any event expire within five years of the damage. In our follow-up, we cannot ignore this fact, nor can we ignore the public financial situation that is now prevailing in this country, so we are currently not conducting any activities in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by Mr Matjaž Han, two ministers, Minister Viszak and Minister Šuštersič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear fellows! Regrettably, the analysis of the impact of the implementation of the austerity measures adopted by the so-called Zuyfa or the Public Finance Balance Act has not yet been carried out. However, we can detect and do not find it difficult that these measures lead to a deterioration of the social situation and the situation of the people and residents of our country. We have also warned the Social Democrats about this in the adoption of the law itself. Therefore, for the second time, the Social Democrats have passed a law on the balance of public finances and we are trying to correct the disproportionate intervention in pensions granted to pensioners under special conditions. This was not about any privileged people, but it was about people who have great merit for freedom, for independence and for the creation of our country's identity. The same fate as all of these pensioners, however, is shared by the right-holders of war laws. ZUJF has also undermined the rights of disabled warlords, war veterans and victims of war violence. The right to medical and climate treatment and to review procedures have been abolished for war veterans. The rights under the War Veterans Act have been recognised since the age of 55 and the right to provide health services in the amount of the difference to the full value of compulsory insurance services from 1. 1. 2013, relating to the fulfilment of the conditions for obtaining the Veteran Supplement. I must say that the representatives of the war veterans are concerned if they are not affected by such drastic interference with the rights they have received and have received in the War Veterans Act. However, given that these citizens and citizens have in some way risked their lives for our country, they need to explain why they should have come to this right. So I ask you, Mr. Secretary, and I ask you for short and clear and precise answers in numbers: How many beneficiaries of the payment of health services, in the amount of the difference to the full value of the compulsory insurance services, have exercised this right under the War Veterans Act in the last five years? What was the annual budget cost of this heading? What will be the financial impact of limiting the measure to payment of health services to war veterans to the budget? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u47	Minister Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u48	Dear Member! Short and clear. First of all, how many beneficiaries. In the period 2008 – 44 000 100, in the period 2009 – 46 thousand 603, in the period 2010 – 48 thousand 886, in the period 2011 – 50 thousand 932 and in the period 1 10th this year – 51 000 594. This is when we talk about the right to healthcare, additional health insurance. So you can see how it's growing, because there's an entitlement at the age of 50. This is said to be the annual budget costs for all war-lawed beneficiaries of EUR 25 million and the annual budget for war veterans under the War Veterans Act amounts to EUR 15 million. The effects of this proposed measure, as regards the limitation of the right of war veterans to receive this payment of additional health insurance, relating only to the veterinary supplement, amount to approximately 14 million 500. Their numbers are increasing, and this is only a possible assessment. We are now binding this payment on social censorship, that is the right to a veteran supplement, and we are no longer universal right to war veterans, but at the same time we are raising the condition for the exercise of this right to 55 years. Dearly beloved, all we want to say is that we are aware of the need to pay additional health insurance to war veterans – those who are older and those who are socially weak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u49	Would you like a refill, Minister Šuštersič?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u50	I think the colleague said all the information you asked for, so thank you for the question and I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Han will request a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u52	I heard what I wanted to hear. My comment, if you'll excuse me, is, some things can't be priced.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u53	I'm sorry, but by definition, I can't allow you to comment. I can allow you a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u54	I don't think it's good that we took some rights from war veterans. Mr. Minister, you mentioned censorship. I know what censorship is, 500 euros, and it's a very low number. Those who have 500 euros in pensions have benefited from this supplement, which they have received, slightly improved their daily lives. So 15 million euros can't be the price for us to take that away from some of our own. I expect you to fix this. I also want to know: Is it a temporary measure or a permanent measure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u55	Good. This last one was indeed a request for a supplement. Who's going to answer? Mr. Visjak, please. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u56	Thank you very much. First of all, on that comment. I agree with you that an intervention in all rights acquired in this country is a problem. Personally, I had bigger problems when we discussed whether to limit the right to a large family allowance or to limit the right to a gift at the time of birth or to limit the right to a child's allowance or to restrict the right to an annual allowance to pensioners and so on. However, the problem in this country was that the legacy dictated a two billion minus in the budget when we took power, and we had to start cutting into rights if we wanted to stabilise or at least step in the path of stabilising public finances. We have tried to be selective, selective on some social basis, and we have also restricted the right to compulsory health insurance to veterans of the war on Slovenia only to those under social security, which is defined by the right to a protective allowance. I hope that better times will begin, this is a better time of economic growth, so that we can discuss the introduction of this right again.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u57	Thank you. Let's move on. The next question will be raised by Mr Jožef Jerovšek, Minister of the Interior of Dr Gorenak and Minister of Justice, Public Administration of Dr Plitsaniu. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister! On 29 May 2012, the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin entered into force and I am interested in: What has been the experience so far in the implementation of this law? A similar question that I am asking you, Mr Minister, although I have already asked the Attorney General Zvonk Fischer, the President of the Council of Justice at the meetings of the working bodies, when we have considered their reports, but I have not received any concrete answer. That's why I want to know: Are the competent prosecutions and, as a consequence, the courts implementing the law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin? The law in Article 2 states that the purpose of the law is to prevent the acquisition and use of assets of illicit origin, which is ensured by the confiscation of property to those who have acquired it in an illegal way or through free transfer and some other options. These individuals are then obliged at the institute of reverse burden of proof to prove the legality of their origin. Article 7 of the Act provides that the financial investigation procedure shall be conducted by the State Prosecutor's Office, which shall be responsible for the criminal and predictive proceedings for a catalytic offence. However, Article 10 provides that the State Prosecutor shall order a financial investigation under the conditions laid down in the law. Since the law has been in force for four months, it is logical to expect that the competent judicial authorities will also use it and implement it. However, I did not see anywhere in the media that the prosecutions or courts ordered any seizure under this law. This is particularly important because this law is one of the important weapons against the theft of public funds and property or the capital of a country that has happened in our country in the near future, as only in state banks have lost billions of money, in an illegal way obviously, which taxpayers will have to remedy. However, as much money as possible must be recovered from the state. This depends on the will of the prosecutions, the courts and other law enforcement agencies. So I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General, How is the implementation of this law, how many financial investigations have been initiated by the State Prosecutor's Office and everything else connected in this regard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u59	First of all, Minister Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u60	Thank you so much for asking. Mr Jerovšek, I am in a rather similar position. They haven't answered you, but they have to answer me, and that's all I can say. That's why I'm gonna say it. Everything I'm about to say is based on the D.A.'s reports, and that's what's next. May 30th, and today is the end of September, is a relatively short time. It should be said that the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, as reported by the Attorney General, has given particular priority to this area in the context of its policy of prosecution. Furthermore, the Attorney General informs me, I can list it, but I would also like to leave to the Minister of Justice and Public Administration for a time, how many meetings have been held on this subject. They also inform me that they have strengthened the specialised state prosecutor's office in this regard. Furthermore, I am informed that the police and the prosecution, which is how the Prosecutor informs me, have also taken other measures in this area. As far as the numbers are concerned, this is the situation. At the Maribor District Attorney's Office, one case is taking place at the moment in cooperation with the police or the Maribor Police Police Department sector, so they will receive a notice within one week whether this will be the case under this law you are asking about. The activities have been going on since the entry into force, but I stress that three months have passed. They need to determine whether the assets are worth 50,000 euros, which is a legal limit, and in this case a proper procedure after the PDO will be initiated. All other prosecutions report that they are not in charge, at least for the time being. However, you might be reminded of financial investigations under the CAP, i.e. under the Criminal Procedure Act, and there is something or more there. In the first half of 2012, financial investigations were carried out against 225 natural persons and 77 legal entities, totalling 86 million euro of property benefits. A total of 65 insurance initiatives were submitted to the prosecutions, in cases where a total of 69 million Euros of property were found. Thus, 80 % of the property benefits identified were proposed for temporary insurance with the initiatives. However, I would like to point out that this part of my reply relates to the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u61	But Minister Plitschani will continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u62	Thank you. First of all, I would like to repeat to my colleagues, Dr. Gorenak, that this is one very important law, and at the same time what colleague Gorenak said was simply too little time since the law was in force until today, so that some concrete results could already be ahead of us. It's all in the hands of the D.A. and the police. I am confident that colleague Gorenak will do everything in his power to direct both authorities as soon as possible and as quickly as possible to the prosecution and the police. However, when it comes to the courts, I can briefly say that I intend to propose to the National Assembly a few minor amendments to the legislation governing the functioning of the courts. The changes will be small, but the effects I hope are great. However, they will apply to faster and more efficient work of the courts. I hope that all of this, if we connect, will contribute to the speedy implementation of this law. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the decision taken by the Government immediately at the beginning of this mandate, on 22 March, and to instruct the director, who I am leading, to monitor closely the implementation of this law and, if necessary, if this is shown in practice, to propose a new amendment at the beginning of the next year. In order for the Ministry to monitor what is going on and to determine whether the law is an appropriate framework or not, it is necessary for such proceedings to actually occur and to end in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u63	Mr Jerovšek, a request for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I am aware of the unenviable position of the Minister that you do not have direct tools and levers for the functioning of the prosecutions and the courts, but I am disappointed, despite the relatively short period of time, that you cannot report any case. I would like to know whether the will on the part of these authorities is to apply this law and prosecute these serious crimes, this robbery, this crime, as the sociologists say, has happened in our society within the banks and this. I don't think there's a lot of cases. In another way, I'm gonna ask myself if you're not in the mood, then it could be sabotage. See, we have adopted this law with the joint efforts of the previous opposition and the government coalition to follow the steps of the neighbouring countries of Italy, Croatia, Serbia, where the law has produced extraordinary success in the prosecution of organised crime and the crime of white collars. I'm afraid these organs haven't shown us that will yet. That they can only report the number of meetings, not specific cases, I think it's almost a farce. It's not your fault, Mr. Minister, but some in this country obviously don't realize where this crime has taken place. I think that this law is such that it allows for the operationality of the prosecutions, if there is only the appropriate will to implement this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u65	Minister Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Now you have gone beyond the context of the asset confiscation law, even to a very hot area called the pursuit of economic crime. I'll answer you the next way. We have an independent police force. We have a stand-alone prosecution. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be necessary to consider whether ministers will be given greater powers or not. I myself find that the areas in both the police and the prosecution need to be accelerated, the necessary thorough accelerations in terms of more efficient, more appropriate and better work. In the framework of the laws that are in force, or those that will be adopted by you in the National Assembly, I can say that I will do everything in my power to get these accelerations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by colleague Saša Kos, Minister of Economic Development and Technology Mag. Happy Zerjava. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! Dear Minister! In 2012, the European Commission proposed a strategy to promote the construction sector, since the competitiveness of this sector has a significant impact on the development of the economy as a whole. It responded immediately to the collapse of the real estate market and the high unemployment that followed the break, with appropriate measures. Construction was the third largest sector in Slovenia in 2008. It employed 87,000 people, contributed 8.7% of Slovenia's gross domestic product, and now less than 4%. Over the last three years, construction works have decreased by more than 50%. The decrease in the volume of construction works in 2011 is thus expected to be high and reflects the real situation on the Slovenian construction market. You have recently said, Commissioner, that some construction companies will be strengthened in the future, so that they can also take on larger projects and that European cohesion funds must be provided for those measures and projects that are feasible for projects that are not. Construction can only be successful if the public and private sectors begin to prepare a development strategy with concrete projects and appropriate investment and project documentation immediately. However, I fear, given the Ministry's response or even worse, that the professional and interested public is not exactly aware of which ministry is even responsible for this strategic sector. The situation on the construction market is worse every month and most Slovenian construction companies will no longer exist until these documents are prepared and will follow the path of major construction companies, such as Primorje. I'd like to know, Mr. Secretary-General: Are you preparing a set of higher priorities for construction projects as one of the competent ministries? What projects are planned and what is the assessment of these investments or how many jobs will be opened? The fact is that large construction companies in Slovenia are bankrupt, including their references and engineering knowledge, which means that our construction companies will only be subcontractors of large foreign construction corporations.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u69	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u70	Thank you very much for that question. Initially, however, something has to be said on the subject of construction, namely that this Slovenian construction has in the past received enormously from the country through the projects undertaken and invested by the state. Despite the high level of these projects and the fact that some were even overpaid for a third, this sector has nevertheless left a huge disintegration in state banks. In spite of the overpayment of projects to state highways, as some say, overpaid for a third, this sector, in addition to being overpaid, has left the real decommissioning in state banks. Construction will, in any event, have to adapt to these conditions that are currently on the market and to the extent of the investments currently being made. The capacity of the construction sector has been too high and this capacity will have to be reduced. And the only answer to what to do for Slovenian construction is to prepare investments. With regard to investments, the government has so far done much, from the first package to the second package and, of course, this third package, which we have not long proposed, to encourage not only foreign direct investment, but also investment in public infrastructure, for which some state spatial plans are intensively being prepared. Let me tell you that this third package for the promotion of the economy provides for the completion by the end of the year of nine State Spatial Plans and one State Location Plan for the second railway line of Divača-Koper and, as I said, nine State Spatial Plans, for example for the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant, for certain roads, Hrastnik-Zidani bridge, for the state road A2 Novo mesto with the connection of Malina, Tolmin Oblast, 2 x 110 kV transmission line of Brestnica, transmission pipelines and so on. We have pledged that these State spatial plans will be completed by the end of the year. This is, of course, a condition and a basis for the preparation of project documentation in the next steps and for investments to be made at all. At the moment, the state documentation and documentation for certain state infrastructure projects are such that these investments cannot even be started. Unfortunately, too little has been done in the past to be at the point when projects could start. Then, of course, financial resources need to be provided, as you know, financially, and we are also actively looking for solutions in this area to how, once the projects are ready, we will finance things. You are well aware that this is not possible from the state budget. However, other models are being sought to provide funds for the construction of the second track of the Divača-Koper railway line or, if you want, development axes. I, in particular, have said many of the measures relating to investment, practically most of the second package to promote the economy has been devoted to investment. At that time, we were criticized for speeding up and violating all procedures and so on and so forth. This had to be done, and this time we will do the same. By the end of the year, the measures proposed through the third package will try to bring us to the National Assembly and we will also expect support to create such a business environment that will be more favourable for the Slovenian economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u71	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u72	Thank you for your answer, Your Honor. I'm not entirely satisfied. These measures, which have been adopted, are more general measures which are not actually relevant to construction or could be supplemented by the fact that more or less of these calls are then made by foreign companies. That means our money will go abroad. And as I have already addressed to you, it is a confirmation that our construction companies will only be subcontractors or that the money will flow to other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u73	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u74	Look, our Slovenian companies will run on public tenders like anyone else. And I believe they will be successful, just as they have been successful so far. I see no reason not to be successful in the future. However, the condition is that investments are in general to prepare documentation in order to provide financial resources. At this point, unfortunately, they're not there because of the lack of documentation. And that's the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u75	Mag. Truda Cinderella will ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. The Safe House is a programme funded by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons on the basis of the selected five-year programme. The resources obtained under the notified programme shall be for the costs of the work of the professional workers and for the material resources necessary for the implementation of the programme. The amount of funds contributed by the Ministry is not more than 8,10 % of the value of the project, the remaining funds are to be contributed by local communities or municipalities. However, since the obligation of municipalities to co-finance programmes to prevent violence is not legal, the good will of mayors or municipal councilors is left to them, whether the planned funding of the programmes will be included in the municipal council or not. In practice, we have different experiences in Slovenia. For example, the Safe House of Gorenjska covers 18 municipalities and all municipalities contribute their share to these programmes. The safe house in Maribor covers 21 municipalities, but in 2012 only 8 municipalities returned the signed contract for the co-financing of the Public Social Security Program. The municipality plans to co-finance the programme in the budget and is dependent on the number of people in the municipality, making smaller contributions. This amount may also be €500 per year for smaller municipalities. Mr. Secretary, I ask you: Are you thinking that the obligation of municipalities to finance programmes to prevent domestic violence would be legalized? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u77	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The simplest part: yes. But allow me a few more sentences. True, the Ministry is funding a number of projects. Specifically 22 programmes of home and shelter for women with experience of violence, 18 of which are included in this 5-year funding, which ensures stability. Among the programs are 14 safe houses or shelters for women operating at 17 different locations, 7 mother homes operating at 11 locations, and one crisis center. In 2012, we will allocate €2.2 million for programmes in the field of violence prevention. You correctly note that such programmes face the problem of co-financing, although we have given quite a high share, 80% is provided by the State. We note, however, that these are problems, so in the future we are thinking about providing such programmes only within the framework of public service at national level.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u79	Thank you. The next question will be posed by the Magi. Majda Potrat, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Dr. Vinko Gorenak! At the beginning of your term of office, you strongly announced the transfer of the NPU from Dimičeva to the Litostrojska Road, which was to take place within six months. You have also expressed the expectation that the Government will adopt a plan for the spatial accommodation of all ministries in view of the new reorganisations, in which there will be a clear commitment to move the Ministry of Interior, the National Investigation Office and the Police to Litostrojska Road. The media recently announced that the Ministry of the Interior had moved in October. It is interesting, however, that there is no NPU at all between the priorities of resettlement. We are informed from the media that the NPU will take another six months to complete the resettlement. I wonder where your determination is with regard to Dimič in 2011 and later from the hearing or presentation of his candidacy for minister, when you said, quote: "This is about charging Mr Pogačar's wallet and bag, and I will not leave it." I would therefore expect the NPU to be the first organisational unit to fully move or move out of a privately owned building to end the wallet and bags of the gentleman already mentioned. More importantly, work in the NPU would be smooth at the same time. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: When will the entire ministry begin to move? Which MNZ organisational units will first move to Litostrojska cesta and to what extent? How much will migration affect the work of MNZ, NPU and the Police? Why am I asking you this? When I reviewed your blog or your media records, the talk is that 128 staff members from different ministries moved away, which means that the number does not cover the entire MNZ number. If I look at which units all of them. I have an organigram here, but there is no NPU, so I really want to know how this will affect the work, if I refer again to what could be read, that they were moving, vibrating and how they treated the furniture on their own, and that the costs of moving were very small because the migration service did a small part of the job. However, it seems to me that it is good to know whether employees will have to do most of the same in this move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u81	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I must admit, it is my great pleasure to be able to answer this question of yours. The degree of my determination has not changed anything since I was here for this pay phone. The level of my determination is much higher, which I will never say again, because there is still a lack of responsibility. As far as moving is concerned, we can say the following. The first thing is, we cancelled the contracts at the end of March 2012, i.e. this year, for all locations held by the Ministry of the Interior in Ljubljana – with the exception of Stefano's 2. The initial move planned for the time of Mr Matei was to go to Lithostrojska all the services, as you know, completely all the services of the Ministry and the police. However, the government plan adopted in March of this year has left the Statistical Office of RS and a small nuclear security service at Litostorski, which is, of course, why the entire Ministry of Interior and the police cannot move there, but can move exactly 639 jobs. We can assure you that if all the construction adaptation works are completed, the move will begin between 15 and 20. Ten. 2012, it is said, within exactly the time limit I have predicted. The first unit to move there, here you have the honourable Member of the exact data, perhaps the media also mentioned if you have gathered by the media, but the National Investigation Office and all the services operating on Dimičev will move first because there is also the biggest cost. They will be followed by 68 officers of the Criminal Police Department of Ljubljana, who are in rented premises in BTC. The move will continue with 167 staff members from Stefanova 2 and 129 staff from various other locations in Ljubljana. Nevertheless, we will have to keep Stefano's 2, which means that we will retain two vital services of the Police at Stefano 2, these are the operational-communication centre and the computer or information center. The reason is that we cannot move you because the cost of moving is too great. Our final goal is to have the Police and the Ministry of the Interior and a large part of the criminal police of Ljubljana, which now operated in rented facilities, exclusively in rented buildings for which we paid rent to private persons, we must stress that this was not just Mr. Pogačar, this was just for Dimičeva, we had 7 such locations on a smaller scale after Ljubljana, so that we can move all of these locations to Stefanovo 2 or to Litostrovsko 54. I count that after this move we will not have any place in Ljubljana that would be of private origin and would pay the privates rent, no more public servants, employed in the police or in the ministry. The building on Stephano 2 is owned by the state, so we don't pay rent there as such. As far as your fear of this winding is concerned and so on, the following must be said. At our request, the owner of the DSU building, me, the Ministry of the Interior, at the request of the Police, the Statistical Office and the Nuclear Safety Service, has reduced the standards, which means that there will be more civil servants in the same large offices. To this end, we also had to order, or the owner of the building has ordered furniture and additional furniture supplies, because for more employees you need more desks, but all of this will be done by these services and not by the police or the Ministry of the Interior. None of the employees of the Ministry of the Interior or the Police will move the table, fasten the screws and what you said, but this will be done separately. The opportunity to continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u83	I think this will be your chance, mag. Spending's done. Request for complete response.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u84	Thank you. I'll ask you another question. I'm glad to have cheered you up with that question. It is also likely that the public will receive accurate information. Everything I've asked you, I've summarized through the media as well as on the websites, including the fact that they weren't white spaces and so on. But that's a trifle. In this regard, I am more interested in whether it is true that some other adjustments to the premises will be needed. There was talk of heliodrome, there was talk of sufficient or insufficient space for garages and similar things. All of this could lead to some additional adaptations, even in terms of special work. Of course, I am pleased that you claim that there will be more people in the room, because this means that you do not count on overly forgiving employees, because this is also a common issue in recent times. So the spaces will adapt to a larger number of people, not the number of people in the spaces, so at least for the employees it is good news. I want to know: What's going to happen to these costs? Are the moving costs already foreseen in the templates? I'm not asking about those resettlements that were before, but about those that directly relate to the MNZ. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u85	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u86	Thank you for the opportunity. I believe you've summarized the media, but that's exactly what our Slovenian problem is, to summarize the media sometimes. Look, adjustments are needed, I have to admit. I can't make a public statement of some information that's caused some criminal charges to fall from here to that corner last year. However, see, the building was deliberately built for the Police and the Ministry of the Interior. In 2009, when the Government made a different decision not to go there, the Ministry of the Interior and the Police abandoned certain safety standards, which were then adapted to the Ministry of Environment, Agriculture and all those envisaged for this move. Therefore, I stress that certain adjustments will be necessary, but only those for security reasons. No heliodrome or anything like that can be imagined, even though I think it was envisaged in the original version, but now we're not going to do it. As far as the garage is concerned, I can assure you there will be a lot of free space. And believe me, you'll have room if you come to my house. I'm just kidding, but the thing is, the employees will be paying for the parking spaces. And since they will be paid and not paid by the state, I believe there will be plenty of parking spaces available, the ones in the garage and the ones outside the garage. As far as forgiveness is concerned, I would not comment on that because it is actually a matter in the budget. And until the budget is closed on 4 October, there is nothing to talk about. But all that's in the media is speculation, and I wouldn't give too much for now. For me, forgiveness is probably the last thing I'd sign, so we'll have to sign something else first. At the cost of moving, as you asked, this is the situation. The costs of adaptation, the adjustments will go to the rent, so the Ministry of Internal Affairs will not pay the costs they should pay, but will go to the rent that will be under this lease. However, I am pleased to say that we will not be talking about 13,06, which Mrs Kresalov assured me last year that this is an excellent offer and an excellent rent. And the other is the costs that will be incurred directly, how do I tell you how to directly move material, materials, computers and so on. We'll do all of this ourselves. If we need anything from the military, they'll be the biggest cashiers we're not qualified to move them to. I will inform the public of all these costs when it is [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič is next on the list, but he is not in the hall. For this reason, the question will be asked by colleague Michael Prevc, Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, Dr. Giga Turk! Informal information about the merger of secondary schools in Kranj, provided by your ministry, has caused quite a stir, especially among employees in the Cranian secondary schools. Because I have not yet seen concrete guidance or responses from your ministry regarding this merger mainly among employees in Cranian secondary schools, there are many different information, misinformation and interpretations. The principals of these schools, which agree in principle, have been presented, according to informal information, with several versions of the merger. This would make it the most acceptable version for them to join all vocational schools and higher schools in the future Kranj School Centre, the Economic Gymnasium, which is now included in the Economic and Service Education Centre, would become an independent educational institution with a high school programme, i.e. the second general school in Kranj, because it is already one. If you already have a final proposal at the Ministry for the integration of secondary and higher education institutions in Kranj, I am interested in and ask: What's this merger proposal? What does the proposed merger mean for employees? Does this also mean forgiveness of employees? What does the proposed merger mean for educational and study programmes? What effect will this have on students and students? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u89	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u90	Thank you very much for that question. We note from the Ministry that in recent times such a small change in education has led to an unbalanced response in the public. At the end of the summer, 14 days actually revolved around teaching, not schooling, starting at 7:30. And it is similar with the problem or issue of these reorganisations. I must point out that the Ministry discusses this with all stakeholders and that the solution actually has broad support. One school centre was to be established in Kranj after the 2008 proposal, but there were two, as you rightly say, Technical School Centre Kranj and Economic and Service Education Centre – ESIC Kranj. The Technical School Centre combines technical high school, vocational and vocational school and higher school. The entry into this centre was reduced by 258 pupils and 6 sections between 2006 and 2012. ESIC brings together a high school, a construction school, an economic and commercial school and a higher school, where the entry was reduced by 775 pupils or 24 departments. Together, therefore, the situation has changed significantly over the last six years; in the last six years, in these two centres in these two schools, 37 sections of students are less simple due to demographic movements. With the management of schools and the President of the Council of Schools, we have talked several times, we have talked about different options, and we have also informed schools in writing about the final proposal. We've been invited to the talks, although we shouldn't have to do it under the law, even the union confidante of SVIZ at school, but she didn't come to the talks. Our plan is as follows: there will be a school centre in Kranj, where schools from the current two centres will form one higher school, and an economic and commercial school and a construction and service school will form one. In doing so, we should say that the economic and commercial school has only 481 students and the construction-service school has 335, which is essential under the average and essential under the minimum of 600 students who makes one secondary school acceptable for force. The current two schools operate at one location, but they have two principals. We'll connect the school here, and one of the principals will lead it. In recent years, despite the decline of generations, we will form a single and unique school called Dr. France Prešern's Gymnasium. It should be noted that the reorganisation is supported by both directors of the current centres and also the mayor of the Municipality of Kranj. With regard to possible layoffs and working places of teachers, it is necessary to say that secondary education in Slovenia is funded by students, so the volume of funding depends only on how many students are and not how many departments, classes, schools, school centres and so on the matter is organised. This means that because of this reorganisation, there will be no need for anyone to lose their jobs, perhaps any director who is now the director of a single school will become the assistant director of a united centre or something like that. The mergers that we have already done, where there was a fear of losing 80 jobs and so on, have not led to job losses; perhaps one teacher from all of the mergers so far, which has been widely heard in the media, one director lost his job, and this one because he did not want to switch to the teaching profession. As with all the reorganisations so far, even with these students, there will be no consequences, everyone will end up on the track they have entered, and at the locations where schools are now attending, there will be no migration, students, unless they are very careful on the board at the entrance, they will not notice the changes. As we have already stressed in the past, we also want to return to Kranj the professions that the economy needs and are no longer there, and this will allow this school centre to do so. In particular, this is a profession in the field of rubber, which is developed in the city but does not have skilled workers. This reorganisation will not put an end to any of the programmes, but we are already discussing new programmes that could be developed in a region for which there is an interest in the local community. Therefore, in the coming years, we can talk more about increasing and not reducing the number of jobs.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u91	Request for a supplement. Mr. Prevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Minister for these answers, and for the well-founded reasons for the need for unification in terms of rationalisation. However, I have some concerns about the establishment of a high school and, above all, I would like to hear your arguments here, because we both know that in the Coalition Treaty we have committed ourselves to restrict enrolment in high school programmes and to encourage enrolment in vocational and professional schools, especially for deficient professions. We know that there is already a general high school in Kranj, in the immediate vicinity – Škofja Loki, is also a general high school. We know that both high schools have very good learning outcomes, that these high schools are doing very well, and somewhere I have seen a new school in Kranj being established for the sake of competitiveness. I don't think that's why we don't need a new high school in Kranj or in this environment. So, Mr. Secretary, if you could just give me some more arguments about the new high school. You said the name would be France Prešern Gymnasium in Kranj. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u93	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u94	Thank you very much for this sub-question, for which there are several reasons between the lines, from where resistance comes to a new, another, perhaps competitive, high school in Kranj. There's probably something about us that we went to high school in high school, and we realize that high school as a high school is, what I would say, an institution that is one building, one director, one program called high school and so on. Kranj is the third largest city in Slovenia and has only one, right now only one general high school. Celje, which is the fourth largest city with about 7,000 less inhabitants, 55 to 48 thousand, has three general high schools. The number of high school students per 100 population is the lowest in Ljubljana, Maribor and Celje in Kranj, with only 0,40 primary students per 100 population in Celje, 0.92 first-graders per 100 population. In short, I want to say that these numbers prove, show that demographic capacities and also comparatively with other cities are certainly there for two schools in Kranj, and I think it will also be good for the students, for the parents, for the teachers, it will be good that these two schools will also compete for a little bit of each other for which it will be better.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u95	The next question will be posed by the mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs mag. Andrei Vissiak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister! As part of the government's response to the economy and crisis, your ministry has also prepared a labour market reform, which you said was your priority, as it offers new opportunities for a better tomorrow, now I am trying to quote you. The first negotiations with representatives of the Economic and Social Council have shown disapproval of certain solutions on both the economy and trade unions. Employers, for example, are disturbed by the envisaged concept of a single fixed-term employment contract, as it would be worse for them than the current legislation in force, trade unions do not support the deterioration of cancellation conditions, the re-reduction of unemployment benefits, the reduction of time limits and elements of the single contract, which say that workers and workers have no rights in the first five months, and the proposed solutions to temporary and occasional work. In this case, workers shall not have any work rights other than minimum payment. The aim of the reform is to increase employment and competitiveness. As an argument we hear that the labour force in Slovenia is too expensive, that the cost of work is too high. And then the Prime Minister comes along with the proposal to take on the Eastern spirit and accept that we will only be paid 47.85% of the current salary for the same work in seven years. This is, in my opinion, a wrong development policy, so I won't tell you where it leads. The threats we have been facing since this government's virtually term of office, which go in terms of failing to accept the savings package, will make the country bankrupt, legalising policy interventions into the social state. I will not mention what happened to Zujf, and Slovenia's finances are no longer stable six months later. On the contrary. And if I come back, Minister, back to the basic question. The single fixed-term employment contract is intended to replace fixed-term employment and, as I understand it, also eliminate duality in the labour market. I'm asking you: At which point does it mean that young people are more employable and at the same time stable in the labour market, the possibility of moving to employment for an indefinite period of time? And if we go to specific cases: What does a single contract of employment mean for a person who has completed education and is first included in the labour market for a person who has already been extended a number of times in the context of a fixed-term contract under the same undertaking and a person who already has an indefinite-term contract today?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u97	Thank you. There's a minister's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u98	Your Honor, thank you so much for asking. First of all, one rejection of your perceptions that the proposed labour market reform should interfere with the wages or benefits of employees coming from work. We are in no way prejudice to the level of wages, at any cost of work, and I believe that this will be a proposal for any other legislation, in particular on social security contributions, which is another topic and is not the subject of this law. I really don't know where you get the information that I don't know how much time the wages are going to go down and the workers are going to suffer again. That's not true. However, as regards a single fixed-term contract, this is a project suggested by the European Union to Member States with dualism in the labour market or which have this duality: on the one hand, relatively secure employment for indefinite periods and relatively wild flexibility when we are talking in particular about the employment of young people or first-time job seekers. They can't practically reach you today for an indefinite period of time. They are generally subject to fixed-term employment or even more, such as flexible or lax forms of work, as the unions like to call them. By the way, Slovenia is the first among the countries of the seven-twenty following the share of contracts concluded for a certain period of time among young people. We have therefore summarised the concept of a single contract for an indefinite period, which we want to make a rule of employment in this country, while introducing certain flexibility in this same contract. Thus, on the one hand, we want to attract workers with this rule and, on the other hand, to attract employers to this concept with flexibility. Of course, each of the social partners sees a part of the problem. Employers would like to have even more flexible forms, even more fixed-term contracts, and employees would like to have fewer fixed-term contracts and security features of the contract for an indefinite period of time than they are now. Both cannot be met unless we find some middle way through this elaborate concept of a single contract. What does this contract bring to young people or to those seeking first employment? That the employer who hires the young person will hire him for an indefinite period of time immediately. And this contract will go through three periods. The first period shall be a trial period of up to five months, and may be shorter if the employer and the employee are so designated. During this period, they are actually familiar with and assess whether they are working together, whether the worker has found a suitable job, or whether the employer has hired an appropriate worker. This takes five months, up to five months. And if that's not the case, it's very simple and possible. And if we compare this with the current solution when the employer can hire someone for three months and chain this thing several times after three months, this first phase is no less safe than the current form when the employer enters into a contract for a certain period of several months, when it can also cancel the working relationship at the end of this period for no reason. Then we have a so-called adjustment period of up to two years, where there must be a legal basis for this to end the working relationship, and then we have a stable period. So a young employee is offered an indefinite contract immediately, with no job required, no formal work between these periods, the contract simply runs through these periods. What does this mean for workers who are now employed for a certain period of time? This means that the first contract, if they have been for more than two years at a given time, will be an indefinite contract. And what does this mean for those who are busy for an indefinite period of time? Nothing. They keep their contract, they will not have to do anything, they will not have to change, and they continue to do so in such a contract.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u99	Request for a supplement. Mag. Squire Tavsh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Minister, for this part of the answer. But I have to say, you've got me all wrong. At first, you didn't get any hits. However, the Minister of your government said that we would have to agree to the Eastern logic of thinking and that the wages for the same work in seven years would be only 47.85%. This is a capitalist logic of thinking, neoliberal capitalism, which, in my opinion, does not have room in the Slovenian political space or should not have. I fear that our current model is focused on reducing labour costs and saving on social accounts. Although it sounds nice for young people to get a basic contract for an indefinite period of time. But I must correct you in at least one part, as far as I know. In five months, this young man, who has an indefinite contract, will be released without any explanation. On the other hand, in the context of the same labour market reform, measures are taken to reduce the remuneration during the first most sensitive period when the unemployed person is applied to the employment agency. And one more thing. Speaking of flexicurity. I fear that flexicurity poses a flexible threat to temporary and occasional forms of work that will in some way force the unemployed person to join the labour market, otherwise in some unstable form of employment. But temporary work does not mean any work rights, nor does it go into a proportional work during retirement. So once again I ask you: Is this really a good and fair concept of solving an economic situation in our country to put everything on the shoulders of workers?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mag. A viscous, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u102	Your Honor! It's not true that everything is placed on the workers' shoulders. On the contrary! Certain elements of labour law are in favour of job security and stability. And I ask you rhetorically, what is the difference between a five-month trial work when an employer can cancel a working relationship without a reason, and a fixed-term contract for five months. What's the difference? None. At the end of both periods, the worker may be on the road for no reason, but he may re-engage with the employer for a certain period in this second case, and in the first case it automatically flows to another significantly more stable period. And that's an important added value. I don't know any employers who'd have fired a worker after five months. Especially if he's happy with him. Where they fulfil mutual rights and obligations which they have not previously entered into by contract and are also defined by labour law. Taking care of the workers and seeing some vamped people in employers who just forgive and walk on justice is, I'd say, kind of unfair. That's one thing. Second thing. Nor do I know the minister who used such predictions to sum up the Eastern neoliberal concept and limit the rights of employees, and to lower wages or to understand you in any way. It's not like that. Once again, I stress and underline that labour law does not interfere with the level of wages. On the contrary. It also provides percentage supplements for, for example, overtime and the like. Certain collective agreements, which are supposed to regulate this as a rule, do not exist at all, and for workers in certain sectors there are not even defined these additives unless they are defined by a contract. So we're also giving a normal range of rights here. And also about unemployment benefits. Look, this is where we introduce an important news. This is the fact that those who have stopped their work and are on notice must immediately be included as an active job-seekers during the notice period, so we want to keep this individual's employment, not the job if the employer has identified him as permanently unnecessary. That is why we want to bring the worker through these solutions sooner to work than we do now. As far as I'm concerned, that's a replacement. The unemployment trap, which is very much linked to the amount of compensation, is one of the highest in Slovenia. And we are also reducing it by this measure, internationally speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Are you going to propose a debate? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u104	Thank you very much, again. Minister, the time is absolutely too short to clear up all the dilemmas in these few minutes, so I absolutely suggest that the Minister's response be addressed in a broader debate. However, Minister, if you allow me to explain or explain to all Members and Members who will vote on my proposal. First time. The minister you say you don't know is Minister Senko Plitcanic. I'll give you a copy of his statement if you want. Another time. I'm afraid that, at first glance, the solutions that sound very nice have a different background. You know, even a worker who can go early to the employment office during the retirement period, I'll tell you whose account? He will be compensated, which is due to him or the period for which he is entitled. And the worker will refund his salary to the employment agency. These are things that make sense to renegotiate so that we will not simply adopt a reform that, in my opinion, can have certain pitfalls. If you say there is no difference, the Minister, between a fixed-term job and a trial period of five months, then such a change in marriage would not have been predetermined by reform. I say changes are important changes. These changes make it easier to forgive workers due to faster transition to another job or greater fluctuations within the labour market itself. Absolutely, all well and well, if, at the same time, some degree of protection or protection of workers' rights were to be incorporated into the bill itself or at the same time, I would rather say social security. You cannot say that you are not interfering with the level of social security when I say again, at the same time with the proposed laws, you are lowering the compensation for the unemployed for the first period, which is most sensitive. Let me remind you, my fellow Members and colleagues, that with the Law on Public Finance Balance, we have already reduced the compensation for the unemployed. Everything is nice and good, but to encourage the worker to join the labour market more quickly when he becomes unemployed, but I believe that not on his own fault is done in a different way than punishment. Once again, during the first three months of taking or reducing compensation. I ask for support in this proposal, which you believe, is also relevant in the light of the fact that we are trying to adopt a reform that is sensitive and which will be best not for individual elites, but for the country and citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 26 September 2012 in the framework of the votes. Ms Alenka Bikar, who has a question for the Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenak, is next. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! I'm still an athlete anyway, even though I'm among you now, so I'm wondering: Is it true that regulations are being prepared at the Ministry to give the police a basis for them to start charging their services at events, including sports? I have an idea because I know what kind of financial situation our clubs and societies are currently in, especially in Slovenia. Most actually fight for survival, for survival. If such a club or society, I am talking about lower-class clubs and not Euroclub clubs, they will somehow find themselves, they will decide to organize a sports event where young people or adults would participate in sports, relax, break off from everyday problems, be able to afford such a club or society, or not know what it would be like, but even if it were minimal, it would be too much, it would be an additional cost that they would simply not be able to afford. What's gonna happen? Such companies would rather not decide to carry out such an event. Worse yet, in the light of saving, they will not benefit from your services at all, and this will result in greater failures, damage to material goods. I'm asking you: Is this a decision of wider social interest, or would it not really be for the government or you to reconsider if you wanted to go in that direction? So once again I ask if, of course, you do not intend to change your mind: What will be the security, order and peace services that will be paid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Dr Vinko Gorenak, Minister of the Interior, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Maybe I'll start by explaining another situation, which is also about paying the police, and then I'll answer your question. I believe there'll be plenty of time. About 1988, I have been following the situation when insurance companies for traffic accidents - I think of those small traffic accidents - demanded a police inspection, even though it was not required by law. But it was simple for them to lower their costs and nothing else. At the end of 2008, an agreement was signed between the insurance association and the police, whereby insurance companies have the possibility of looking into police traffic accident records, and it is worth it – I stress, payable since 2008, I think, in November. It was precisely the takeover of the government by Mr Pahor or the former government. By the time I arrived at the Ministry of the Interior, no one had issued any invoices. They even tried to convince me that we didn't have some legal basis. But I'm telling you, the bills are paid today. The financial situation in the police is such, not only in the police, but also in the whole state administration and the public sector, if you want us to have to, we simply need to find every euro we can get into the budget. According to my first actions and after Zujf, as you know, the Police Act has also been amended, and I've issued a rule that says insurance companies are paying for it now. At the monthly level, the budget revenue of €50,000 or in the three late years of Mrs Kresalova, if you count these same figures for this period, is a million €800 000 or 100 police vehicles for a little less than €20,000, which went on, I will say, somewhere in the air. As far as your question is concerned, the answer is yes. We already have a legal basis for this in the Public Assembly Act today. We are preparing an appropriate policy to make this pay. At the same time, however, I must say that I do not imagine that it would involve a sport event such as you have participated in and have achieved success in this. It is simply that we will tie the matter to those sports and other public events, I stress, sports and other public events that sell tickets in order to have clubs, organizers or anyone else's profits. And in those matters, it is the duty of the police to provide basic public order and peace, to ensure transport safety and so on. Of course, we will not count if there will be a fight, because we are obliged to intervene and so on, but superstandard services – what are superstandard services – will have to be set up in this Regulation – will have to be paid. Let me remind you that one big football game in Slovenia costs us 200 000 euros or about 200 000 euros. However, the law is perfectly clear: an organiser is responsible for public order and peace at a public event. The organizer, however, will have at his disposal, or he will say, more red tape services, more security services and so on, or he will give it up. In this case, we'll put out a bill. I stress, however, what is most important is that these are events where the ticket is paid in order for the organiser to have this money. Secondly, there will be superstandard services which would otherwise not be necessary if the organiser took all measures to establish and maintain public order and peace. I'm stressing, above-standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u109	Will you request a supplement to the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u110	Of course, insurance companies might still be able to talk about raising the premium and then automatically get us killed again. We could talk about that. But these superstandard services, once they know exactly what they're gonna be, we'll wait for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Would you like Dr. Gorenak's additional response? No, no, no. Okay, thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak, who has a question for the Minister of Infrastructure and the premises of Mr Zvonk Černač, is next. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! The suction from which I come has catastrophic road links on virtually every side, both against Koroška, towards Dolenjska and White Krajina and also against the capital Ljubljana. That is why, Mr Minister, I have already asked you this month a question about the journey and the timeline for the construction of the so-called third development axis in the direction of Koroška-White Krajina and the timetable for the construction of a new road between Hrastnik and the Wall Bridge. Your answer also regarding the construction of a new road between Hrastnik and the Wall Bridge, which will allow Zasavje in the Wall Bridge to join the third development axis and the modern and rapid connection, both to Koroška, Pomurje and to Posavje, Dolenjska and White Krajina and to Croatia, has satisfied me, given the situation in which we are living today or in which the state of Slovenia has satisfied me. The big problem for the citizens of Hrastnik and Trbovlje will remain modern and faster road access to the capital of Ljubljana. The citizens of Zagorje have arranged a good connection to the highway in Trojan. The problem will remain because the third development axis, according to your words, will run across Laška and not, as envisaged in one other variant, which has not proved to be the most optimal, from the highway from Savinja Valley through the tunnel through Zasavje towards Dolenjska. My specific question is. In the light of the facts previously recorded, it is imperative that the country continue to provide the Hrastniks and Trbovljačs with access to the existing highway in the Savina Valley through the tunnel. This is how this pressing problem will be solved for modern access to Ljubljana, where there are a lot of citizens and citizens of Hrastnik and Trbovlje, daily, that I do not mention the needs of Zasavina companies, exporters at all. Mr. Minister, I would like to hear your firm words that the state will settle this matter and answer the question: How long will this be possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Minister Zvonko Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u114	Thank you so much for asking. Good-bye, everybody! With regard to the progress of this link between the existing A1 and A2 motorway network in this central part of the third development axis, the most optimal option has not yet been definitively selected, but all the studies so far show that this midway is most optimal both from a transport and accommodation perspective. On the other hand, I can say that we probably all agree that the development of transport networks is very important mainly because it makes it possible to exploit the potentials both for settlement, infrastructure, production activities and other activities in the field of recreation, tourism and other potentials. The strategy for the development of road infrastructure in Slovenia stems from the strategy for the spatial development of Slovenia, the development of the road network must ensure the polycentric development of individual areas, while at the same time ensuring appropriate links with European transport systems. The main state road network in our country is thus made up of networks of remote road links of international importance, network of road links of cross-border importance, network of road links of national importance and internal road links. The first, on the network of remote road links of international importance, connects road links of cross-border importance and this framework also includes road links from Celje through the New City and forward to Metlika towards Karlovac, that is, this part of the third development axis. Within the regional centres of Slovenia, transport links are connected to the network of remote road links of international importance or network of road links of cross-border importance with road links of national importance, including road links from Šentjakob to the Wall Bridge. And the last in the hierarchy of these road links is, of course, a link within this internal road ring, which ensures the integration of regional and inter-urban centres. In this case, it is a link between somest Trbovlje–Hrastnik–Zagorje ob Savi. These links should allow or improve opportunities for their spatial development. The connection of Zasavje to the Slovenian motorway network or road connection of international importance is a road link of national importance, represented by an updated regional road at the Šentjakob-Hrastnik section and a new road link between Hrastnik and the Wall Bridge, for which the spatial placement process is completed during these days, and a road link of cross-border importance, represented by the project of the third development axis at the central part of Celje and Novo Mesto. With this modernisation and upgrading of road links, the road infrastructure of Zasavje will be regulated in accordance with the definitions of the road infrastructure development strategy in the Republic of Slovenia and in some ways linked to the state and European road network. Looking at time dynamics, it is quite clear that traffic flows are also changing. This will also be followed by additions to these strategic guidelines. You know that traffic flows over a relatively short period of the past 20 years are going differently than planned 20 years ago, so that we will also monitor the situation in this area and in line with the development of transport, in accordance with the needs that this transport development will require, also respond adequately to the changes in the road infrastructure development strategy in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk alone has a question for the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Radovan Žerjava and Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport Dr. Žiga Turka. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I believe that we agree that the description of Idria and the Spanish Almaden on the prestigious list of world heritage at UNESCO represents an exceptional opportunity for the local community and the country to jointly implement a series of development projects related to it. I have already asked a similar question in April this year, when it was not yet known whether we will actually be included in the third attempt on Unesc's list. The government’s commitment to implement its decision to establish a centre for the management of Idria’s legacy of mercury was also included in the nomination. This now binds us to a successful description. In response, both ministers assured me that inter-departmental coordination was taking place with regard to the implementation of the Government's decision to establish a public institution. Minister Mag. Radovan Žerjav then said that it was only on this basis that the Government would be able to adopt the relevant decisions in order to implement this government decision. However, Minister Žiga Turk said that, together with the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the Ministry of Health, they recognise that the centre is of national importance and that the Government's decision is being realised and that they will draw up a coordinated work plan in this area within two months and submit it to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. Mag. Happy Zerjava and Dr. Žig Turk ask: When will the operation of the centre for the management of the legacy of mercury Idrija begin, which is the international commitment of the Slovenian Government, with the successful entry of Idrija into the list of World Heritage Sites at Unesco, which was given at the meeting of the Unesc Committee in St. Petersburg in Russia in June this year? I thank both ministers very much in advance for their response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The first one will be answered by a mag. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Thank you so much for asking. On the basis of the Law on the Prevention of the Effects of Mining in the Mercury Mine, Idria is provided for the maintenance of unspoiled work and monitoring in accordance with the programme for the maintenance of the indemnified part of the cave and monitoring after the finished closures in the Idri mercury mine for the period 2008-2012. For this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision adopting the annual programme on 14. 6. 2012 and provide financial resources for the implementation of the programme under the budget lines of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Also for the following years, provision is made under the law to ensure the maintenance of the indemnified part of the cave and monitoring and thus the safety of the city of Idrija. For this purpose, a new programme should be adopted for the maintenance of the indemnified part of the cave and monitoring for the period 2009-2013, to be prepared by the Idrija Mine, or in the event of the liquidation of the company of the relevant institution, which will take over the employees of the Idrija Mine, who will continue to carry out these works. Until now, this has not been done. However, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has, of course, already foreseen funding for the implementation of the works under the programme under the 2013 and 2014 budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Dr. Mark Turk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u120	If I can make it up to you. The fact is that if a cultural heritage is listed on Unesc's list, it is also one of the conditions, one of the basic issues to be settled in this regard, including the long-term or permanent management of this monument. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already established a Public Institute for the Management of the Heritage of Living Silver Idrija in the previous term on 7 July 2011, but this public institution, as you can rightly say, has not yet come to life. The Ministry of Culture has prepared draft materials for the establishment of the institution's world. Then the procedures were stopped. Our ministry has convened several inter-departmental meetings on the subject. This is a matter of concern to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Ministry which is responsible for mining and is at the same time a key partner in this new centre, the Ministry of Health, because this is about activities in the field of health, monitoring, the content of mercury in the environment and so on, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, which deals again with this dangerous living silver, but not so much with humans as in the environment, plants and animals, and representatives of the local community, i.e. the Rudnik of Living Silver Idri in liquidation and the municipality of Idrija. The main conclusion of all these meetings was that this centre was of national importance and that this decision of the Government should therefore be implemented as of July 2011. In our ministry, we have also coordinated the proposal for a work programme of this centre across the various areas covered by the ministries and proposed the scope and method of funding. In addition to maintaining cultural heritage and managing property that are key to the world heritage, and for this part we are responsible at our ministry, it is also about maintaining and monitoring the indemnified part of the cave as well as environmental and biomonitoring. The government is aware that there are still things that need to be settled here and that these things will be in line with the options in the following budgets.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Do you want or request a supplement to your answer? Please, Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u122	Thank you very much for the opportunity to ask an additional question, Mr Vice-President. Thank you for both your answers. But I'd appeal to the Minister of Mags. We're eating as Minister Turk to finally agree on the establishment of a public institution. It has been said that all procedures have been stopped, and at the time of the entry into Unesc's list, it is necessary to establish such an institution that will manage an area that is listed on the World Heritage List. In fact, in this case it is some kind of transformation of the mercury mine or the company into a public institution, where there will be no substantial additional resources, nor will there be any additional employment. Minister Mag. In any event, cranes have said that funds have already been made available for the next two years. It is a matter of reshaping, for all the legal obligations imposed by the Law on the Prevention of the Effects of Mining in the Mine of Living Silver Idrija must continue to be fulfilled, and of course also those tasks arising from this international commitment of our Government when Idria is added to the list of world heritage at UNESCO. It is therefore incomprehensible to me why, not so many ministers, but mainly officials at the Ministry of Economy and Culture do not agree on how to deal with this matter in the Government. I think it's about time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u123	Well, I didn't realize we'd be expecting a follow-up. It was more your appeal. But if any of the ministers want to answer, they can. Mag. Radovan Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u124	See, Mr Member, I think that these answers, and also the actions that the Government is taking in accordance with this project of the mercury mine in Idrija, prove that we are doing something, and I believe that we will also address these open issues, which you are referring to as important in a relatively reasonable time. We are also, as we both said, aware of this issue and will have to be addressed.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Aloj Potočnik, who has a question for the Minister of Infrastructure and the premises of Mr Zvonko Černač, is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, the issue is only seemingly local and at least regional. Through the Municipality of Kranj goes, I hope that the data are correct, six state roads, namely highway, main road and four regional roads. This time, let me point out the main road G2 104. The inhabitants of Gorenjska, Kranja and other users face a long and poorly maintained road daily, including a dangerous road mainly in the part of the district of Primskovo to the highway connection Kranj-East. The road is heavily overloaded. He warned me a lot, he fixed it up a little bit. In relation to the solution, at least two studies of the traffic arrangements mentioned in the main road have recently been conducted, particularly in the circles. The City Municipality of Kranj has not received an answer, according to its representatives. Today, I expect a clear and binding response so that the local communities on the main road will know how to proceed and draw up development plans that are also partially blocked due to unregulated infrastructure. On this occasion, let me recall that Gorenjska was fourth in 1991 after a gross social product per capita between regions of the Republic of Slovenia and 20 years later is the eighth, which is an indisputable reason for further concern. Thank you very much for your reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Minister Zvonko Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u128	Thank you so much for asking. In the area of modernisation of maintenance, reconstruction, new construction, reconstruction of state roads, it is a matter of considerable resources and it is an area that would be useful to plan for a longer period of time and to adapt the dynamics of projects to the way in which individual sections are burdened. This, as we know, is not always the case. Many times investment takes place also on the basis of different criteria, but I think that forward investment should be adapted to the way in which individual roads are burdened, the state in which they are and, on this basis, also set a very clear priority, in which it would also be clear how much funding will have to be allocated to this area through a longer period of time by 2020 and beyond, because it would be easier to plan, investment would be easier to implement and probably could also get more European funding than we have in the past, and ambition would continue in this direction. With regard to the specific section on the G2-104 main road, the problem that you highlighted, the Primskovo Circle, access to the motorway, is a project that is included in the national development programmes under the number 10–01/95, the reconstruction of Šenčur–Primskovo. This project, which is broader, envisages the reconstruction of the main road from Schenchur to Primskov, a document for the identification of the investment project, an ideal design. The original design provides for the redesign of three existing crossings, 6 bars of intersection in Shenčur, 5 bars of intersection for highway and Hrastje and a circular intersection in Primskov and the expansion of the bi-passenger line into a four-passenger and the expansion of the underpass under the highway. In December 2011, a proposal for an arrangement was sent to the municipality, and the ideal design was forwarded to the review. On the basis of all the opinions received, planning and later implementation of this whole project will continue in 2012, 2013 and the next. The investment is fully estimated at over €6 million. Given that it is a project that is broader and which does not only cover this work that is most problematic and where it is worth [[Incomprehensible]] approximately 26,000 vehicles a day, but the dynamics of construction or reconstruction will certainly be such that this part, which you have put forward today in this matter of parliament, will be dealt with as a matter of priority and, to the greatest extent possible, with the solutions that we have already implemented in some cases, at least in cases where there is a different transport regime that allows for greater failure, which will also be cheaper from the point of view of implementation. We must be aware that the resources available to us are limited and, wherever possible, we will also use cheaper solutions to improve the traffic situation and traffic failure, which will nevertheless be functional and allow for normal detours in accordance with the professional standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has a question for the Minister of Infrastructure and the premises of Mr Zvonk Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers! Dear Minister of Infrastructure and Space, Mr Zvone Cernač, I believe that you would probably prefer to deal with ongoing infrastructure and spatial projects, but unfortunately you must also solve the problems that you inherited from your predecessor or from your previous government. One of these, acute ones, I want to warn myself. In September last year, the Supreme Court, in the event of compensation for unbearable life in the midst of heavy trucks, definitively assigned the citizens living along the G1-3 road, that is, the Long Vas-Maribor. Let me remind you that after the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the EU on this road, the daily vehicle is on average 5,000 heavy trucks only in transit. A simple account shows that 1 litre of diesel fuel was burned daily on every running meter of road G1-3 in the engines of trucks. Therefore, in the 2004-2008 mandate, we have made every effort to have the highway to the Hungarian border turned over to transport on 14 August 2008. So far, some €6.5 million has been paid, while 2 000 100 people demand €14 million and only 682 cases have been solved, according to my information. By the middle of 2009, the country had offered settlement. At that time, Minister Aleš Zalar stressed that they had taken a settlement decision in the Government in order to eliminate unnecessary costs and ensure that compensation was paid as soon as possible, but that did not happen. The country has started stalling so that the injured Pomurians have only achieved, with the help of the Supreme Court, that the inhabitants are entitled to compensation. There's a difficult problem ahead of you, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of citizens living directly along the G1-3 road, I ask you: When will these citizens get paid immaterial damage due to increased freight traffic between 1 May 2004 and 14 August 2008? When will passive anti-group protection be completed at residential facilities for which the expert body has determined that they are entitled? Mr. Secretary, thank you in advance for your reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Minister, Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u132	Thank you very much for this question and the opportunity to make this matter public. With regard to the payment of damages and the exercise of passive anti-group protection, there is no dilemma to which the State must carry out, unfortunately it has not been possible to carry out everything in the past years and this year due to known public financial constraints, but the obligations on which it has been indisputable have been legally assessed that they must be enforced and paid to all beneficiaries both immaterially and to carry out appropriate passive anti-group protection. On the G1-3 road, the RS Directorate for Roads was designated as a body to financially implement judicial decisions and settlement in this respect. Since 2005, the owners of residential houses along the G1-3 State Road have submitted over 2 000 500 claims for compensation for non-profit damage due to an increase in heavy freight traffic on this road. On the basis of legal decisions, decisions and settlements issued so far in 2009, compensation was paid to the injured persons amounting to EUR 4 million, EUR 636 thousand, 824 in 2010, EUR 766 thousand, 103 in 2011, and EUR 709 thousand,410 in 2011. In the 2012 budget, we faced well-known financial constraints, for this purpose only EUR 150 000 was allocated to the Slovenian Directorate for Roads to pay these compensations. On the basis of these resources, 8 judicial decisions have been implemented. Since this is a pressing issue, the Ministry has proposed the use of the funds of the current budget reserve for the purpose of paying all remaining liabilities, namely 312 remaining cases totalling around EUR 4 million 500 000. We have managed to provide funds of just under €1 million from this title. From this title, compensation is reimbursed or paid in 68 other cases. Others need to be provided with funds in the coming year. Similarly, in the field of passive anti-group protection, measures have been implemented in previous years and even this year. This part relating to the amount found to be exceeded and the noise limit at night was carried out over the period from January of this year. However, most passive protection measures have already been implemented in the part where the critical noise limit was found to be exceeded during the daytime period. To this end, €135,000 has been earmarked for this purpose. In the remaining part where the implementation is still under way, the funds will be provided in 2013 or, in the extreme case of 2014 when this area of State compensation to beneficiaries is also expected to be completed. I also count that the beneficiaries have somehow understood that the country is in a difficult situation. I must say that we have been successful so far in this explanation of how and in what periods the funds will be paid in full. Once again, this is a legal obligation which is indisputable, determined by the decisions of the courts, and in this part this damage will have to be settled, and we will do so to the maximum extent possible in the coming year or in a small part in 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The question to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franc Bogovic, is raised by Mrs Maja Dimitrovski.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! Despite the difficult economic situation at the time of taking over the mandate, the government has already started at its first meeting with a staff imbalance in areas where they have no direct link with solving economic and public financial problems. Let me remind you, at the first meeting on the date of appointment, the Government has seen a key priority in appointing political loyal people to the leading offices of the Office of Religious Communities, the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency and the Office of the Government for Communication. This was the first day of her mandate to break the commitment under the Coalition's Staffing Treaty, solely by virtue of abilities and personal integrity and the breakdown of the ceto-staffing system. On the contrary. For the first week of their term of office, cesovo staffing has been shown to be the fundamental value of this coalition and political loyalty to the exclusive eligibility criterion. The placement of politically loyal personnel is a fundamental motive for part of the government and it is increasingly evident that this is also subject to extensive reorganisation at all levels. The latest story of the government's so-called bulldozer recruitment is the call for the resignation of Dr. Darija Krajčič, Director of the Institute of Nature Protection of the Republic of Slovenia. If I can get it back up for a while. At the Institute, an opinion was drawn up a summer ago expressing doubts as to the correctness of the decision to cross the bypass route of the Ljubljana Barje landscape park and the Natura 2000 area. As a reminder of the reckless placement of road projects in the space, the document cited an example from Portugal, where the European Commission punished the country by carrying out binding measures as well as by punching its pockets for not respecting all procedures in the construction of the motorway across the Natura 2000 area. However, as Dr. Krajčič pointed out, the country with its Natura 2000 ride cannot expect cohesion money. The competent ministries should therefore now undertake to prepare a variety of routes that would not cross the Ljubljana Barriers to meet the criteria of the European Commission. And that's what put the bypass in the space again. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary-General: What professional reasons led you to suggest that Dr. Dari Krajčić resign to the Director of the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Nature Protection? Will you propose his release if he does not follow your proposal? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Minister Franz Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u136	Nice greetings, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, dear colleagues! A topic on which I have also publicly explained the reasons for this conversation. But let me start with this introduction myself, because you started with the box. This is one of the cases where you can see clearly in the Slovenian space, how certain spatial placements can also take place for 10, 15 years, as is the case in this case. At the beginning of this mandate, we have set up a group consisting of people from several ministries, including our infrastructure, as well as representatives from different professions. In the conclusions that were made on May 29th, we also wrote down the way we were supposed to go when we put Skofljica in the space. What you have summed up is also the findings of these conclusions. It is said that in the preparation of the environmental report, in addition to the two routes located in the park of Ljubljana Barje and in the area of Nature, the route outside the area is also processed professionally and that such an updated environmental report is reviewed and that people at the Ministry also arrange, review and establish environmental acceptability. In this part, I have also publicly said that I support this path. We also agreed on this path in interviews conducted at the inter-ministerial level as well as with local communities. And that's the way we're supposed to put it. During all this time, this is one of the cases of spatial placement. In Slovenia, however, I think we have recognised that the ways of cooperation in society are sometimes very difficult. The ways of cooperation are very difficult, if you want, in politics and, which is very problematic for me, even among the different professions for which we are each responsible in our own department and for several different professions within each department. We have also found that sometimes it is very difficult for naturalists to communicate with or talk to those responsible for flood protection, those responsible for the installation of infrastructure facilities, those responsible for energy facilities or the like. More than that, there is no great desire for cooperation, so it was also my way of working to set up another group for such a space facility immediately at the beginning of the mandate. And it's not my way to work setting up ultimatums, blackmailing, threatening, it's cooperation between people. When we saw that many of these projects involved, I invited Dr. Krajčič to a collegial interview. This wasn't an ultimatum interview, a blackmail. In this discussion, we also discussed these problems of mutual cooperation in various areas, which we both agreed on. A further discussion has also taken place if it is not possible at times to replace human resources to deal with such situations. He agreed to that. This was the interview that was conducted on the 4th. 9 o'clock on Tuesday. In this conversation, Dr. Krajčič also mentioned that this was one of the solutions. I have to say that I have not taken any steps from here on, and that Mr Krajčič and I have spoken with ourselves, as well as with the Secretary-General, about the possible continuation of his career, should such an agreement be reached. The next day I also received a message that there was still thought about it and was not determined whether it would take that step or not. I haven't taken any steps since then. That was Wednesday, 5. 9. unlike Krajčič, who has obviously taken quite a few steps in the direction of public information at this time, the call for a meeting of the institution and the problem of this discussion. I had a conversation with his associates next Monday alone. Since then, however, this media pressure has also begun to raise questions about what was going on and in which direction these discussions have gone. After three days of this media insistence, I myself have answered what I have told you now. As I mentioned earlier, from that Wednesday to that Monday alone, I did not take any steps. I also know the legislation, I know what the legislative framework is in this area, so these steps by Dr. Krajčič have surprised me to some extent. But as I mentioned before, I did not continue these activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mag. Stanko Stepišnik has a question for the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Merry Christmas. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Secretary! The repetition that it is important to revive economic growth this year is, at least for me, a battle with windmills on the wind. You have now really prepared an extremely large number of measures. The first two packages and the third package contain more than 150 or at least 200 of these measures. But it's about quantity, it's not about quality. If there were only one, two or five quality measures, then the spiral of economic growth and the trend of economic growth would turn upwards in the coming year. Unfortunately, however, all indicators and trends show even lower economic growth, which is very crucial for the public sector, social, public financial deficits and security, and internal and external confidence in the country. The announced reforms are essential, as are the capital adequacy of banks and businesses at the same time as the recovery of bad claims. The State holding company will play one of the main roles in ensuring the sustainability and stability of public finances by selling state assets in the coming year. But if we do not balance income with expenditure, hire loans for infrastructure investments, not for current consumption, encourage development and research, and prepare a business environment so that technological, export, competitive, over-indebted companies will also have the opportunity to regulate their capital adequacy, financial power, either through the conversion of credits or claims for equity where they want it, or new loans to finance transactions or convert capital. There is no other way to expect an improvement in economic growth. All stakeholders in gross domestic product are all negative by autumn forecast; both for 2012 and 2013, private consumption minus 3 – 2012, 2013 – minus 3.6, national consumption – minus 3.4, investments – negative, change in stocks – negative and also exports and imports do not promise much. The change in stocks, which has now had a positive impact, also shows negative growth. Unfavourable economic trends in the exporting countries, credit crunches, public and financial deficits, high unit costs, low added value and reduced competitiveness indices indicate an even higher stagnation of economic growth. Dear Mr. Minister: When and by what measures will you stop the negative trend of economic growth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Radovan Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u140	Thank you very much for this question, honourable Member. I have to say, after we're 13. 9. The government has already adopted a third package to promote the economy, and this time I am surprised at this issue. Especially because we received a second package, which we wanted to carry out quickly and quickly in the National Assembly, you have also received criticism, that we are in a hurry to be in a hurry to break procedures, and that this is simply not possible in the National Assembly. But we have argued that this must be done because this is what the economy requires of us. That's what you're saying today. And that's what we're doing. We have prepared a third package, as you said, with 155 different measures. By the end of the year, we will be amending 21 laws, 12 sub-legislative acts and some other strategic documents that this country currently does not have and needs; for example, industrial policy, which is important. Part of this package is, of course, some of the measures that I think are crucial to whether we are going to talk about any economic growth next year or if we are going to be on the spot. This is a question of bank resolution and the issue of labour reform through pension reform. You must know that we discussed these issues at the meeting of the presidents of the parliamentary parties of the month of July, where some of the solutions were on the table. At that time, at your President's suggestion, we took time to think; we thought for two months and after two months, these solutions were coming here on the table. Meanwhile, we got a strong earring in the form of a reduction in credit ratings. If there were more hearing and more understanding about the situation in which we are and less speculation, this decline in credit ratings would certainly not have occurred. As I say, the Government has prepared a comprehensive set of measures, which if we take them – and I believe that I will, and I believe that you will also help – we will be able to talk on the basis of these measures and all those already adopted next year about significantly better economic activities than we can talk about at this point. Without solving the issue of banks, the rehabilitation of banks, without solving the key issue concerning the competitiveness of the Slovenian business environment in the field of labour law, this will be significantly more difficult or, I can say, impossible. Here I expect that in these projects, which are important and dependant primarily on the coalition, not on the opposition, we will have at least the chance to do so, without throwing them under their feet and blocking them to change anything, so that the government may fall as soon as possible. In short, measures are, important measures, concrete measures if you want, new. We have also touched on investment, which will be an addition to this measure to promote the economy. By the way, the interest in investment in Slovenia is, for foreign direct investment and relatively soon we will also report on it. As a basis, I claim this on the basis of the information obtained from the invitation to tender for foreign direct investment, the call for greenfield investments in the technology equipment segment and also some major investments coming directly under the Foreign Direct Investments Act. I therefore expect a proper debate on these measures in the National Assembly and the effort to take these measures as soon as possible and allow the economy to breathe out on the basis of a more competitive business environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Are you asking me to complete the answer? Mag. Stanko Stepišnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, unfortunately all these saloon solutions, which may be theoretically good, but in practice they do not provide solutions. Economic growth is also marked by a negative trend. All these excuses that there are no projects – you rule, reforms, fiscal rule, the clearance of the pension register, the replacement of people in the supervisory councils, etc., are a departure from the essence of the solution. The essence of the solution is the economic start-up of state infrastructure projects: road, railway, track, hydroelectric, energy heat protection of buildings, green ecotechnologies, the removal of credit crunches, that is, the capital adequacy of banks and businesses, the acquisition of capital through concessions, the release of citizens' deposits with some great confidence and the guarantee of the state that citizens will lend to the country for these major investments. Social entrepreneurship, self-sustaining food. 37% of the supply of vegetables or more than 50% of the supply of other food provides an opportunity to employ 20 more, according to some estimates of as many as 70 000 people in this area, as well as to reduce the growth of Slovenian land. Foreign direct investment. Mr Minister, it is time for strategies and targets to be implemented, not to write measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mag. Radovan Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u144	Your Honor! If we read this material, we'd talk differently. We would certainly say otherwise, because here we would see that a whole lot of very concrete measures, from what, by the way, is linked to an invitation to tender to be prepared by the Government on the subject of Slovenian motorway concessions, to check this possible solution and thus obtain investment funds for public infrastructure projects. Before we can talk about investments, however, there will be a need to draw up state spatial plans, which I have talked about before – I hope you have listened to me – that there are nine spatial plans and one location plan within this project, so that we can even talk, honourable Member, about investments. But you know that the state spatial plan cannot be implemented within six months, if, for example, it has not been implemented a few years ago. And in the past, it was not enough to be able to prepare projects on these national spatial plans today. I told you that 10 spatial plans are foreseen for public infrastructure projects by the end of this year. It would be good to see how many have been prepared in the previous mandate, but we could compare efficiency. And then investments, so investment capital. Then I told you that when we talk about road infrastructure, the Government will check the possibility of concession and through this concession to obtain additional investment funds for the development of axis development. However, something similar will have to be done on rail infrastructure. That we would be in debt in the way we were in charge of highways, we realized that it was no longer going. It just doesn't work with debt! It is therefore necessary to find a new model for the acquisition of investment funds. And that's what's coming. I have now mentioned two ways in which this can be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u145	Thank you very much. You want a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u146	Yeah. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to hold a public debate on such an important area or topic as economic growth.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u147	Thank you very much. This will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 26 September in the framework of the vote. Dr László Göncz, who has a question for the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, is next. Andrea Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, Minister Vizjak! Unfortunately, despite some rare encouraging indicators, the overall picture of the Pomur region in the area of employment is by no means good. The registered unemployment rate in the region is still highest in Slovenia. According to the latest data, this is 16,7 % and is therefore one third higher than the national average. More than 500 new young people are also expected to be employed by the competent employment unit in the coming weeks, who are running out of student or student status, so the problem will be even greater. In the pomur region, the structure of the unemployed is at all very critical, as in addition to the younger population, almost 40% of the unemployed are over 50 years of age. Their employability is, unfortunately, as we all know, minimal. The particular problem in the region is also the care of an older population that is no longer able to support itself, but there is no possibility of family assistance and the possibility of moving into homes for older citizens. While there are enough vacancies in nursing homes, when the standard of the vast part of the population falls dramatically, it is possible for the elderly to take advantage of their activities. I believe that in addition to the planned programmes and activities, further efforts must be made to find solutions, as you yourself have indicated when you visited our region a few weeks ago. The situation is getting worse, and I ask you first of all: Do you think within the Ministry and the competent professional institutions about potentially effective integration of the solutions to these problems, such as the intense incentive for the younger unemployed population to become more active in the field of domestic care for the older population? New, specialised forms, including social entrepreneurship, may develop from such programmes, although the minimum, which in the Pomeranian region can partly help to remedy the situation. It is important to realize that there are almost one and a half times as many older people as the national average. At the same time, such programmes may also represent some added value in the area of more stable employment in the region and also wider. I also ask, now in this first part: Are there any other special options or solutions in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u150	Your Honor! The implementation of the various policies of the Ministry of Labour and the Government, as far as Pomurja is concerned, has produced some positive results over the past year. To mention, the arrival of some foreign companies in Pomure is very important. Let me mention that, in particular, new jobs have emerged and have been realized in the Arcont metal manufacturing industry – 171 jobs, Carthago motorhome production – 194 jobs, in construction – 171 jobs, including in the Mura textile industry and partners – 241 jobs, Wolfford – 83 jobs and also this year’s trend continues with slightly lower dynamics. Let me also mention the funds received or aid received from the European Globalisation Assistance Fund, which has also contributed to the projects mentioned above. Let me mention that, in addition to horizontal measures, active employment policies implemented in terms of additional education, training, employment subsidies and activation in Pomour, in accordance with the Law on the Promotion of coherent regional development, in view of the fact that this is a region with a higher unemployment rate, additional measures are being implemented, such as the reimbursement of social security contributions to employers and tax incentives for the employment of unemployed persons under 26 years of age or over 55 years of age. Thus a number of applications came this year and 82 applications here have met the conditions for these rights. You mentioned an important area of social entrepreneurship. You are probably aware that several projects, three in particular, have also been successful in the Pomur region. From the last call for four and a half million euros, Pomurje received poor 900 000 euros for the projects of Korenik, Pan-Intra and Regional Labour Fund for Pomurje. In short, legislation in the field of dealing with Pomurje as a special region with relatively large development problems gives certain results, and with you, honourable Member, I agree that the opportunities are increasing in the directions you have mentioned. In directions where these programmes can also be developed, which are now supported by strengthening social entrepreneurship. Thus, we are vulnerable to all the constructive and good proposals that come from your mouth at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Request for complete response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u152	Thank you very much. First, I would mention that I myself have stressed that some positive indicators are visible and no one denies them. What you have also mentioned is an important contribution, and they mostly abstain from this information. First of all, I asked after this special work, and then in the end, you answered it in part. I hope that, in fact, there is still scope for a certain upgrade within existing financial capacity – I am not talking about any supplement that is probably not possible at the moment. I would still ask another question, or I would ask for a supplement. Unfortunately, it is noted that in the older population, i.e. those over 50 years of age, employment is, in fact, impossible or very difficult. Since this is an extremely vulnerable population, I would like to know: Are you planning or planning at least some specific programmes in this area with some flexible programmes? I could say again that this percentage of this population, unfortunately, is the highest in Pomour. Thanks in advance for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Master Andrej Vizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u154	Your Honor! I think the answer, or the recipe, to your question in combination with two government activities: one in the area of creating new jobs, in particular by attracting foreign investments and the friendly environment that we want to create in Pomura, and some foreign investors have recognized this. I hope and believe that there is also this call that has been made, and there will also be companies coming here in the future that will create what we both want; that is, on the one hand, the employment of young people, as well as those categories over 55 years of age. That's a prerequisite. We can't, we can't do anything with 100% subsidies if jobs aren't available, and then there's no employment. Secondly, measures which are measures of active employment policy to enable employers to choose to employ this more difficult workforce, particularly older ones. That is why we have in Pomura, under the existing active employment policy measures that go towards subsidising various labour costs, also the general tax relief measure for the employment of unemployed persons over 55 years of age, on the basis of the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons and the Income Act, this is a reduction of the tax base of as much as 45% of wages – due to the region with an average rate of these development problems. I therefore agree with you that the effect, even as a result of the economic crisis, of all these efforts is that it is not you, not me entirely satisfied. However, as I say, the measures already mentioned by the Minister of Economy today, together with these, can provide greater employment and some results have already been achieved in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Janez Šuštersič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u156	Hello, Minister. This week, Slovenia will start to deal with bank rehabilitation. We have a law in front of us Friday to settle this area. There are several models in the world of how countries have tackled this pressing problem. I am pleased that it is now clear to everyone in the country that Slovenia's key problem is in overindebted economy and in connection with this banking spasm and that there is a need to provide systemic ways to clear bank balances. Without this, there will be no start-up of credit activities, not for the population and even less for the economy. However, there are several models in the world of how to do this hard work – American, German, Swedish, not least Slovenia. In Slovenia, too, we have already saved banks in the 1990s, but it is true that at the time the situation was slightly different, since the two largest state banks were practically on the verge of insolvency, while we do not have these problems in banks today, in fact, the last measures are relatively favourablely capitalised, without considering that we no longer have a problem with bank capitalisation. Far from it! I would like to know, Mr. Secretary-General: Have the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considered other alternatives well before deciding on the model of bank rehabilitation? The government has proposed by law a model by which we will transfer bad investments in banks to one legal entity. This raises a number of questions; in particular, the issue identified by financial literature as a problem of moral gambling. The question is, At what cost will we evaluate the bad claims: whether we will do a favor to the country or to those who have cooked the problem? So I'm banking. On the other hand, there are a number of issues where we can find that the Government may not have thought carefully about the necessary fuses, filters that would allow us to adequately protect public interest and prevent what is happening in the world from the beginning of the crisis in 2008 to today. And it's a mass socialization of losses. On the one hand individualisation, privatisation of profits, on the other hand individualisation, namely socialisation of losses. Before this process, Slovenia is now. Minister: So have you studied alternative models? Why didn't you think they were better?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Dr. Janez Schušteršič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u158	Hello, Mr. Ambassador. It's good to see you, too. Let me start with this concrete question you asked in the end, and then on the models. The transfer value is set out in the draft law. It says that claims and other assets from banks, such as insurance, will be transferred under the so-called estimated economic value. This means as much as in some normal circumstances the value of this asset on the market; in some claims it will be very low, in some insurance cases it will be higher. This will have to be, if it has not yet been independently assessed, also confirmed by the European Commission in any such programme that will be made for individual banks, because it would not be exactly what you have pointed out; it would be, for example, through this country, that it would be providing some assistance to banks or something like that. This will result in some weaknesses in capital if banks have this asset overvalued today. This property will go, I mean, these weaknesses will go against the property of the bank owners. So, their capital values. The question of socialization of losses. In view of the fact that the majority of the banks that are most in difficulty are the majority owner of the country, there is a bit of a philosophical question. If we do not go this way, we will simply have to recapitalise the banks directly, and that also means socialising losses or covering up past irresponsible behaviour. Of course, the law also has provisions that enable the identification of responsibility where this responsibility needs to be identified; this is for past practices, which have led to the need to socialise one part of these losses today. About models – for a short time. There are several models, countries have varied models. We have come primarily from a German law that has basically allowed for multiple possible solutions, and our proposal for a law allows for a number of possible approaches. However, it is true that we prefer and feel that, given the situation in Slovenia, the best approach is to poor claims or poor assets from banks – from those who will be included, I cannot now present the whole law, but only according to the criteria and procedure provided for in the law to be transferred to specific institutions. Why does that feel better? Because, for the first time, it's transparent. We'll admit the dimension of the problem, maybe follow exactly what's going on. This institution, a company for the management of claims, will have a very clear reporting obligation. The National Assembly, too. Secondly, because we believe that such a procedure is best for the economy that is now indebted to banks. In fact, the specificity of the situation in Slovenia is that we have very many so-called syndicated loans. If you are monitoring, say, reports of some companies today trying to restructure and convince banks to reprogram their loans or similar, such companies usually talk to six, seven, eight, nine banks at the same time. If we concentrate one part of these claims, this conversation will be easier, but above all this management company will have a longer time horizon and will be nicer, if I say so, a creditor to these companies, as banks can today, in the situation they are in. This is typical of countries where problems in banks have occurred, like us, due to the large volume of loans for individual industries or activities – for example, for us to take over and for construction activities and so on – they have often gone into such a model, such as Spain, Sweden, Ireland. However, countries where problems have arisen more in various investments by banks, various toxic loans, investments and so on have more often solved problems within banks with some state guarantees; for example, Germany, Belgium are such cases. It's the last one. We also believe that such a way, in addition to transparency and clear accounts for this process, allows or provides the greatest assurance that most of the costs of this operation will eventually be paid. By transferring these claims, the bank assets to one company, this company will be able to cash them – in particular insurance, in part also claims – and in the end we will also cover one part of this from the contribution or payment that we will have to pay to private owners, which we will help them in part, and in the end, because this will earn a higher price for state shares in banks, in the part where we will be [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] ‘ we will be able to repay most of these funds in the end. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u159	Mr. Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u160	Mr Žerjav and I wrote to you on Friday about the Maribor foundry, where the problem is precisely this: a syndicated loan and the inability of banks to make decisions. I'm afraid it's also because bankers are now the new witches of this company. I am absolutely in favour of finding the culprits for what happened in Slovenia, but that this guilt must be individualised as much as possible. However, those who do their banking role and task properly must be given the freedom and responsibility to do so properly. I'm afraid all the bankers in the country are already so scared that they don't hope to make any more business moves. This is felt today by a certain company which would otherwise need to reprogram its generally short-term loans available in recent years into longer-term loans. Mr Minister, the United States of America weighed between two models at the beginning of the crisis. As you know, they opted first for a model that resembles Slovenian. They made a reservation of $700 billion, did 5,000 valuations, and planned to pool all the bad investments, all the bad claims in one place. After a difficult process of evaluation, they did a few more than 5,000, they found that this concept makes no sense. Instead, banks have recapitalised EUR 50 billion and have largely solved the problem. So, what literature convinces us, solutions within the so-called special recovery units or special vehicles are in many cases significantly more effective. Banks are better qualified to manage bad investments than the country's special specialised units, which have an administrative problem here and which raise a new question: how and whether this will be managed responsibly by such large assets. By the way, let me finish with the question: Is the concept of bank rehabilitation subject to any special interstate agreement with the Vatican, given that we are obviously going to be rehabilitating through this way [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Dr. Janez Sušteršič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u162	I take that last one as a bad joke. But as for the previous serious matters you've discussed. Syndicated loans, of course, are a problem. This is the situation you wrote us about, and we face it every day with other companies. I hope you don't expect me to call the president of the board and tell them to give up the loan, because then you'll say that's why we came into the situation we're in. That's a serious problem. An even more serious problem – I don't know if it is more serious, but it can have serious consequences for, say, the finances of this country – is the question of what we as the owner can and can do in banks. Last week, well, maybe this is now fourteen days, we had the question of recapitalising one of Slovenia's banks, which has a very similar name to that of Spain, which ended up in the programme. There is no direct owner country, however, due to the size of this bank, we have been very clear from the bank regulator if the owners fail to manage and bring together one way or another recapitalisation, we will arrive at 50 million or 100 million in the budget. I just wanted all supervisors to be aware of the importance of the decisions they make when they decide to recapitalise that they also have responsibility for the financial system as a whole and ultimately, if you want, for the taxpayer's money. And it was understood — the Secretary of State asked him to explain it there in the supervisory board — practically as an excession, that he came there at all and wanted to explain something. Then he was somehow removed, and in the end, there was a lot of press. In short, self-service, where someone can take decisions irresponsibly and then get 100 million coverage from the budget – that's fine, isn't it; an attempt by the Government or the Minister of Finance to convince people to act prudently – but there is no pressure allowed. We have a whole bunch — not only do I say this to you or do I not read it directly to you — of these false double morals. On the one hand, we should also leave the state banks in peace to do what they want, on the other hand, as owners we are responsible for practically every bond that is available there, not just for credits that are given or not. But if you look at the situation in banks, what has accumulated in banks in three years, then – please! The statement that banks themselves are likely to manage their bad investments is somewhat unrealistic compared to the reality that is in banks today. Banks had a lot of time, bank regulators had a lot of time to force them to make these special companies. Many in the world have done so, some foreign banks [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] That's because they were told from the womb. [[...]] They're not ours. I don't plan on waiting for them for a few more years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u164	I'm happy for your determination. By the way, in my letter to Mr Žerjav and Mr Šušteršič, mentioned earlier, I have explicitly written that, within your powers, and it is understood that calls to bankers are not your jurisdiction, but not your lending to a particular company. So I am aware of these self-restraint principles that we have to stick to and believe that this government too. But let me serve with one piece of information. It is said that €100 million of recapitalisation is the same as billions of euro in debt transfers as the effect and impact on the resolution of the banking system. Taking into account the 4 billion-euro bond debt, we find that this will be a costly way to rehabilitate banks. Mr. Minister, I wish you good luck with that. But I'm not going to ask for a debate because we have this item on the agenda on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u165	That's where you abused the rules of procedure. Let's move on. The Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku, will ask Mrs Tamara Vont a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Turk, when discussing the draft law on changes and additions to the Law on Religious Freedom, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members, in June this year, in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal, among other things, stated that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would prepare the necessary amendments to the law as a result of the decision of the Constitutional Court or that you are already preparing this amendment. Now all I care about is: When do you plan to submit this law to the National Assembly for consideration? What solutions do you anticipate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Dr. Mark Turk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u168	Thank you very much. As you correctly note, we have promised to table a new bill on the government side. I can assure you that the amendment of this law is in preparation for its final stage and we anticipate that the text will be put into the procedure before the end of this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Patricia Šulin, who has a question for the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u170	President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! Dear Minister! In Slovenia, we have a system-wide resolution of large-scale beaches under the Act on Measures to Eliminate the Effects of Certain Large-scale Terrestrial Beaches 2000 and 2001 and to address the consequences of Earth's beaches, which are triggered by major floods, which can be used to eliminate the resources of the State budget, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters. The launch of the beach in the village of Šmihel in Goriškem dates back to 2000, when the intense rainfall in November took place in both the Vipavska Valley and elsewhere in Slovenia. As a result of the search for the beach, a number of buildings were damaged, including two residential buildings in Šmiel, to the extent that the inhabitants were evicted. By 2006, geodetic 3D monitoring and geological checks had been carried out, and the last 13 series of measurements had been carried out in September 2006. Inclinction measurements carried out between 2001 and 2010 were also carried out in parallel with geodetic measurements until 2006. During the regular observation period, the last measurement in November 2010 showed an increase in machine movements in all wells. The depths of skating from 3.5 meters to 17 meters indicate circular skating with the highest depth in the central part of the beach are confirmed by the extremities identified by engineering-geological mapping and taken into account in the ideal rehabilitation project. No measurements or inspections have been carried out since 2010. In the light of the field’s problems, a period of two years without data on the situation on the ground is relatively long. This year's record long dry weather in this part of Slovenia is likely to bring very wet autumn, but hopefully it will not be as abundant with rain as it was in 2000. Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, I ask you: How did the ministry predict the dynamic recovery of large-scale beaches? When will it re-apply to the rehabilitation of the beach in Šmihel, given that the project documentation on the rehabilitation of the beach has already been developed? When will the emergency measurements take place on this beach in order to determine the dynamics of deformities? Thank you very much for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Minister Franz Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, for this question, with which we are opening up the area of elimination of the consequences of major accidents and, as has already been answered in one of the questions today, we also have very large backlogs in this area in the Republic of Slovenia. I have put together these eight laws on the basis of which we are obliged to do the consequences of disaster management after various elementary events, and the number is terrible. Almost €165 million is these backlogs, which we must address in the light of past marriage commitments. As regards the Act on Measures to Eliminate the Consequences of Larger Terrestrial Beaches, 2000 and 2001, this Act was adopted with the aim of eliminating the consequences of larger beaches, including the mentioned Šmihel in the municipality of Nova Gorica. It is also the beach of Stovje in the municipality of Bovec, Slano blato in the municipality of Ajdovščina, Macesnikov beach in the municipality of Solčava, Podmark beach in the municipality of Šempeter-Vrtojba, Strug beach in the municipality of Kobarid, and Gradišče-Šmihel beach in the municipality of Nova Gorica. The projects were, or the removal of, these consequences was, in accordance with the law adopted, foreseen by 2010. Unfortunately, there are also considerable delays in this area, so that some €73 million is still needed on all these beaches in this area to address these consequences. I can say that, within the scope of the budget, which we are aware of, we are only information, despite the fact that the Ministry has last year's 450 million budget, this year or the next is planned much higher, but mainly because of the use of cohesion funds and rural development programmes, and that within the Ministry there are these so-called integral resources – which are for all: wages and also for all the programmes we cover in this part – about this level or a little more than that. Last year and also in 2012, we managed to provide around €17 million in this integral part of the budget, and given this financial item, which is now based on the source of the budget, it is estimated that we will not be able to provide much more in the coming year. This means that of these many measures we will have to choose the most acute ones in some way and also solve them. I have to say, given that the law under which these funds should already be provided has expired, we have also prepared an amendment to this law to extend this period for the next period. In view of the reality, we have foreseen by 2020 for all these reptiles, and we will certainly need to go from beach to beach and see which things need to be dealt with in an acute way so that we will not have any more damage in larger rains. As for measurements on the Shmihel beach, experts assure me that they are foreseen and will be carried out by the end of this year. Thus, we will also see the actual situation on the beach in question, as is the case with the other beaches, and that we will determine accordingly, with the priorities at the beginning of the year, which elemental part will start to be solved in the following year. I'm afraid I can't get better numbers and better information, but I'd love to.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Kavtičnik will ask the Minister of Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku, a question from the Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Chairman. Your Honor! Before I put the problem or introduce it, I just want a brief correction. Mr Minister, you said earlier that Kranj is the third largest in Slovenia, but it is the fourth, the third is Celje. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u175	Please ask a question, because your time is running out.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u176	Thank you very much. The importance of local and regional radio, television programmes need not be long and widely interpreted and discussed, as they already have a place in the Media Act as programmes of special importance in the public interest. These media and programmes are complementary to commercial media programmes and national RTV Slovenia. The importance of local and regional radio and television programmes is indispensable in rural areas, in smaller towns and cities, as they bring people closer to local environmental events and thus contribute to the consolidation of local democracy and to more equitable regional development. Members of previous calls, as well as governments, had the intention of systematically regulating the financing of these programmes, but it remained solely for the purpose of doing so. Since you have also entered into a coalition contract by ruling parties, I ask you: When will you submit to the Government a proposal for amendments to the Media Act, which will allow the broadcasters a systematic and long-term source of co-financing? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Dr. Mark Turk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u178	Thank you very much for the question, and thank you for the correction, obviously, it was a lapsus on my part. If I recall correctly, Celje has about 55,000 and Kranj has about 48 thousand inhabitants; three high schools, one high school. If I go to your question now. The new Media Law is at the Ministry in the final stages of internal coordination, and we anticipate that in a few weeks, perhaps even earlier, the law will be ready for inter-sectoral coordination at the level of the Government, then we will adopt it in the Government and mediate it to the National Assembly. With regard to the access of local, important regional media media, including sources of funding, you/we took an important step in the National Assembly a few months ago with a new Media Act allowing regional television to so-called must carry access, i.e. free access to broadcasting on multiplex A, which will financially relieve regional televisions of the particular importance that this access has. Parliament's debates, including in this mandate, have already said several times that the Government must do its utmost to enable the survival of these televisions. The Government also agrees, something like this is written in a coalition contract, and this is also included in the proposal for this law. I myself have recently spoken with representatives of the four largest regional televisions, which connect to the Media Chamber at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, and their position, as it is possible to win it quickly, is somehow known to me. They too know our position that we want to settle this issue as soon as possible. We are also saving it in part now on the basis of the Media Act. In fact, we are heavily co-financed by the programming content of some of these media. For this year, however, less money than two, three years ago, but local and regional media with a status of special importance, which was placed on the so-called list B, received around € 1.6 million and we are signing contracts with them these days. This help is not negligible. If we give the possibility that regional televisions have unpaid access to multiplex A, then savings are significant, given previous years. Of course, in the past, when they had to feast on multiplex A, some debts have also been incurred, but this issue will be resolved by regional media only in agreement with those who owe it to them. It's RTV Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavticnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u180	Thanks for the answer. I think it will also satisfy the owners or all those who implement these programmes of particular importance. However, I am interested in the fact that the Director of the Media Directorate, Mr Miro Petek, said that this amendment would be amended to the National Assembly in September or at least in autumn, that is to say, by the end of the year. I want to know: When exactly is she gonna be here, if you know? Will this part of co-financing, which is supposed to be written in this law, be implemented already in January or next year? The problem of the survival of these radio and television programs is of paramount importance in what will be stated in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Dr. Stampa Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u182	I completely agree with you. In fact, about the importance of these media, including the relationship between the financing of the public service RTV and all other media, which is increasing and which also represent an increasingly important source of information for the population. Here I can only quote what the director of the Directorate wrote to me about the procedure or the timeline: "We predict that in a few weeks, perhaps even earlier, the law will be ready for inter-departmental coordination. After the adoption of the Government, we will refer him to the National Assembly." So if the thing runs as fast as possible, you could consider it at the October session for the first time.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mrs Alenka Pavlič also has a question for Dr. Žig Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u184	"At the age of 64, the hockey club Acroni Jesenice passed away in Jesenica. The officers killed the hockey club. The Diligents destroyed the Acroni of the Autumns to punish them. The Akroni Jesenice Hockey Club will have to be buried. A complete flood of the Acronya of the Jesenic. Is the flood of HK Acroni Jesenic the end of Slovenian hockey?" This is just a few headlines that we have recently had the opportunity to read in the media and talk about the incompetent, unprofessional and criminal management of the hockey club by officials, the result of which is a two-and-a-half-million-dollar hole that unfortunately cannot be repaired. You must be aware that the Akroni Jesenice Hockey Club is more than a year old for fans across Slovenia. It's a way of life. Without the best hockey club ever in Slovenia, we probably wouldn't have hockey. They probably wouldn't have had Anzet Kopitar, and they probably wouldn't have had the NHL Stanley Cup. Who's going to play in the state championship now? Hockey went on his way to extinction with the collapse of the biggest hockey club in the country. If we are to exclude sports, we must be aware that hockey has made a profit through the generations to hockey players, coaches and all the other employees who have worked in support activities. It is also difficult to measure the achievement of Angie Kopitar for Slovenia, because because of his talent and hockey school in Jesenica several million Americans learned that we exist, and they also learned that we are Slovenia and not Slovakia. It is clear to all of us that the state will not be able to cover the financial hole that officials at the club have made. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: Are you aware that the collapse of such a strong club can mean the collapse of a traditional winter sports industry like hockey? I want to know: Do you have any plans at national level to solve this sector?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Dr. Stampa Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u186	Thank you so much for asking. I'm sorry you didn't tell me more about the written question you sent, that you were actually interested in the Akroni Jesenice Hockey Club, because then my colleagues could give me some more information than I'm going to tell you right now. In fact, your question was general about the development of sports industries in the light of tradition and importance. But if you've mentioned Akroni Jesenice, let me start with a personal experience. I didn't even go to school when we were on some vacations in Mezakla, and I remember when I was a kid for three, four years watching the Autumnians train there. They had a puck on the wooden board, and then they pushed the puck against the goal. That's when I became a fallic fan. There was no ice in the summer. I also remember having a colleague from Jesenic in the soldiers and saying, "You know. In Slovenia, the champion in hockey is the one with the better Jessenicans." In fact, this is a sad story that tells us where it takes us, the relatively great freedom that civil society has in organizing sport. It should be borne in mind that sport is to the greatest extent at the hands of civil society, that the state does not interfere with individual clubs and also has relatively small possibilities for controlling, controlling, managing, as it were, individual clubs. Classification of sports industries. Where do you put it here, hockey, is there anything the country can do about it? The fact is that the criteria for classifying sports industries are prepared for the State level by the Minister, or for local needs, for local sports communities. The classification of sports industries on the basis of these criteria is a categorisation matter carried out in Slovenia by the Olympic Committees, in fact the state does not have a normative instrument to guide and guide the development of individual sports industries. According to the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, there are 87 sports sectors in Slovenia that are included in the category and registration of athletes. This summer, Mediana carried out a study on sports industries, which included 142 sports industries or some sports disciplines within these industries. This study was commissioned by the Slovenian Olympic Committee and the Sports Foundation. The results were as follows. Whether they knew the sports industry or had heard of it, it was handball in the first place. There was alpine skiing, football, basketball, swimming, tennis, skiing, ice hockey, table tennis, art skating and so on. On the question of how recognizable is the individual sports industry, i.e. how much they think the rest of Slovenia know this sports industry, it was in the first place as the most recognized football, followed by ski jumping, alpine skiing, basketball, handball, ice hockey in 7th place – if I counted correctly – then ski racing, swimming. The third question was how top achievements in a sports sector affect the visibility of Slovenia. The ranking of these sports industries was then the following: first ski jumping, then alpine skiing, third basketball, fourth swimming, fifth football, sixth ski course, seventh ice hockey. In short, hockey on a flight is somewhere in the first ten sports that Slovenians either know or consider important to them. Money for co-financing sports industries and their programmes is set out in the budget as a global item and in the annual sport programme. Is it fairly divided according to the standards? This question can, of course, be open. We can always talk about how to place these weights among the results achieved, while aware of the results achieved and how many people are involved in some sport and therefore the results in this area mean something.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u187	Thank you very much. To supplement the answer, Mrs. Alenka Pavlič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u188	I must say that I am very pleased that you declared to be a fan of the Hockey Club of Jesenice, and I regret that I surprised you that you could not have prepared yourself better. But I will now complete the question, and perhaps then at the end of what I will say, you will decide and that, even though you are not prepared today, you will do something else at the Ministry because you may not understand. It's not a hockey club collapse, it's a industry collapse. 'Cause then who's the Olympics gonna play with? With you? Branches on a national level, we have other leagues, but if the tradition is 60, 70 years old, I think it's a shame that the industry as such is failing. I will read what the RTV website wrote: "The Hockey Association of Slovenia addressed to the Disciplinary Commission a proposal for a disciplinary procedure against six Acronius Jesenic officials for destroying a reputable club. HZS Supervisory Committee Chairman Branko Terglav proposes the introduction of an infringement procedure pursuant to Article 13 of the HZS Disciplinary Rules against former HK Acroni Jesenice officials for whom a penalty is required to prohibit the performance of all functions in hockey." End of quote. The European Basketball Championship will take place next year in Jesenica. A few million euros will be spent by the state to rebuild this hall. After the end of these games, there will be some competition, there will be a concrete monument to the late hockey in Jesenice. People who can’t believe that the state and the congregation have allowed us to lose our hockey at the Jesenicas, for they don’t have one anyway. In the office of the Member, I am asked what I can do, but as a Member, I am absolutely limited. That is why I hope that you will see to it – or I ask you if you will join us, because other than this, the club does not want you to help to regroup in the EBEL league next year. We have a company HD Young people who could reclassify to the club and join the league again next year. That's all I want from you. I'm asking: Will you approach and help? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u189	Thank you very much. This is the second time you have asked a supplementary question for a question you have not asked. Would you like to answer, Dr. Mark Turk?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u190	I suggest that the Hockey Association of Slovenia, what is left of the Akroni Jesenice Hockey Club, and perhaps the representatives of the municipality agree to meet at our Sports Directorate and see where, how the state can participate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Gantar, Minister of Health, will ask Mr Mirko Brulc a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u192	Dear Mr. Secretary! I know you're familiar with Hospice's activities. It's a society that, if we call them special hospitals, cares about the dying. On one occasion, those who had already been consumed by sickness or old age were dying at home. Today, there are fewer and fewer reasons why, and we both know the burdens of family members and so on. Hospice is organized everywhere and is also given special attention to society. This is a specific activity and, of course, comparisons with a nursing hospital are not sustainable. It is difficult psychosocial therapy and also pain relief for those who leave. Hospic works to a large extent with the help of a charity activity, as well as with the help of a donation, which is of course not enough. We meet daily to ask for funds for their work. I am aware that these are social and health tasks, it is said, that this is a matter of two ministries, not just yours. Of course, this activity must be dealt with in a normative manner. One of the questions is: Is there anything going on? See, the regulated funding of this activity is a real indicator of how social and human society we are. Therefore, Minister, with all the austerity measures I fear there will be no money for Hospice. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: Are financial droughts also threatening this activity? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Minister Tomaž Gantar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u194	Good evening, everyone. Thank you for asking. As regards the financing of activities that are important for all, it would be difficult to say that financial drought is threatening, given that this activity has been in fact in this financial drought all along, and this has nothing to do with saving at this point. The fact is that interviews have been taking place in this area for the past two years, that some solutions have been tested, including an agreement with the hospital in Sezana, which could not be succeeded on either side. In fact, even at this time, this cannot always be at the charity level; some systemic funding is needed. On the other hand, we need to know that this area, which is now somewhat narrowly limited, also needs to be defined professionally at the level of the whole country. In fact, whenever we look at systemic solutions, then all citizens have the option of equal care. Hospic currently treats about 1% of these patients or dying people who need some last aid, especially compassion, may also have some therapy. It is true, however, that we need to know that this palliative care is only happening, not only in the context of informal treatment, but also in the homes for older citizens, where many people die for such or other reasons. Partly then, under the guidance of such a team, which is self-sacrificing, it is professional, of course, that we will also find a solution so that it can also work in the future. Where is this solution? It is important to be aware that this is not a treatment; it is, as you yourself have mentioned, a psychosocial care that is primarily at a different level and that we can also talk and negotiate within this level. As I know, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is preparing a national programme on the basis of which it would be possible to grant concessions to such companies as well. Only on the basis of such a concession is there a possibility of funding – as far as health care is concerned, this is as health care 3. As I say, however, the focus is mainly on the second part, on this psychosocial one, but most European countries do not solve it and do not finance it under compulsory health insurance. We are aware of the problem, once again, I think that the solution needs to be found, that it is important to help these people in their last days and hours. I also believe that if this national programme is adopted, we will be able to bring it to this level professionally, so that the concession can be awarded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku, and Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar, will ask Mr Dragan Bosic a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u196	Thank you for your word. Hello, everybody! My question is, in fact, the most general topic that is possible other than time, namely health. First, I would ask the question, and then I would point out some of the facts that led me to this question. Health status of young people, school-bound children, from pre-school education to students, graduates. The question is in this direction: Are you carrying out activities or planning activities related to the health of young people? In particular, I am thinking here of joint activities in both ministries that would improve the health status of this population. In fact, why — some of the facts that have affected this issue. One relates to studies of overweight or obesity carried out according to WHO standards I am a health problem between 1987 and 2007. It is said that in 20 years the percentage is once again higher: 15.6% for both sexes in 1987 and 2007 less than 30%; now the situation of this index is even higher. But the other thing is that our young population, which falls year after year, is a driving force. In fact, for boys, she fell below the average in 2001, 2003 for girls, and for boys she fell steadily, or tones. This weight problem, which I first highlighted, then also results in age, somewhere after studies over 35 to 55 years of age, which was published in the journal Neurology, with memory problems. I think the dementia has been dealt with before – this will be better known by health colleagues – but now it is cognitive ability. It means memory and similar problems that occur at this age. This means that they should be cured much earlier. Let me get back to the question. I want to know: Are you thinking about making adjustments to your health status and, if, in what direction are you thinking? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u197	Mr. Secretary Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u198	Thank you, too, for that question. I think that the health of children is an area that is quite well regulated in Slovenia. Now, if we limit ourselves to school children – i.e., periods are prescribed from infants to preschool, school children, where they are subjected to various systematic checks, vaccinations, psychological examinations, logopedes, etc. So I think we can really boast about this arrangement. As far as school children are concerned, I think that as far as medical work is concerned, the area is also well covered. If I understand you correctly, you are more interested in joint programmes, given the findings of those derogations, which sometimes also separate us from children in some other countries according to certain parameters. There are also several joint programmes here in these years, in agreement with the Ministry of Education and Sport. I think that one good achievement is the establishment of a network of healthy schools and that 324 of these schools are already included in this category. From the 1st to the 9th grade, model hours take place on the subject of lifestyle. We're talking about food, drinking, tobacco, alcohol, etc. Of course, it also raises awareness of the harmful effects of youth, the benefits of a healthy lifestyle, and so forth. The project, which is carried out jointly with the Ministry of Education and Sport, is a healthy food. This one's separated. One such action is these healthy breakfasts, which will now be back on track. The Ministry of Health in the framework of schools also co-financed a programme for the mental health of children, which also relates to this period. Finally, to make it easier for us to know how and what to do next, the IVZ has also produced a publication — I don't know if it has already come out — which points to the trend in which children's health is going, and which will also allow for the orientation of various activities for the health of these children. A little more is likely to be the problem after the nineteenth year of transition from pediatricians to family doctors, but they are still somewhere in school curricula and probably some additional programs on healthy lifestyles should be included at this level. But we'll see what this IVZ study will show. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u199	Mr. Secretary, Dr. Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u200	If I can make it up to you, but first, if you'll excuse me, there's another correction to this game between Kranj and Cel. According to statistics in 2009, Kranj is bigger than Celje, and I hope that we can stop the matter at this point. Vinko, you let me down. As regards the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, we pay great attention to health in schools. There's more ways. One of these is the subject of a primary school where sports education or sports is placed every week after three hours in lower classes, in upper classes after two hours. Students also have a swimming course in the second grade, in the third and fourth schools in nature, they have five sports days and even if they look at our investments in school infrastructure, which some of these investments are right in the gym. Many students and students are included in the school diet system, which follows the principles of healthy diet or healthy nutrition guidelines. We know the action of Slovenian breakfast. Regular systematic health checks shall be conducted in schools. Since 1993, a network of healthy schools with 12 pilot schools has been operating in Slovenia. They work in accordance with the principles and principles of the European Network of Healthy Schools. During the period 2008 to 2010, a model of Healthy Lifestyle was developed, which is also transposed into legislation. Above all, it seems to me that health in this area is well illustrated.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u201	Here you go, Mr. Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u202	I am satisfied with this answer in principle, but I might have one more comment, one more question. Are you thinking about introducing health education at least in high school?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u203	Minister Turk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u204	In school programs there is a wealth of selection items, so that some of these content in terms of healthy life, healthy nutrition, sports are already occurring in primary schools. In secondary education, however, we have specialized programs that deal specifically with health care or health care.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The question will be raised by Mrs Irena Tavčar to the Minister of Justice and Public Administration, Dr Senko Plicaniu.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u206	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to the ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! Mr Minister, my question touches on the additional costs of hilly municipalities compared to lowland municipalities. Therefore, allow me to introduce to you some concrete additional costs. The cost of the winter service is higher due to the increased amount of snow falling and increased salt consumption to ensure transportability to most steep and winding roads. More intensive winter service also means more extensive and more expensive annual maintenance, as road injuries appear faster; investment maintenance and reconstruction of roads must be more frequent than in lower parts; costs of removal of land beaches in steep hills on which cold water flows. The basis for the rehabilitation of the beach or the nature of the road is the remedial measures laid down in the rehabilitation laboratory, which is based on geotechnical, geological and geophysical research, which is a major cost. It is often necessary to act immediately, especially when buildings or roads that are often the only ones in these areas have access to houses. The municipalities are left to themselves in the majority of cases of rehabilitation, and, due to the large cost of high-quality rehabilitation, they have to leave the planned investments. For infrastructure construction works carried out in hilly areas, the operator is often forced to work in extremely difficult conditions, which is reflected in the extension of works and higher prices. As a result of the plasmid terrain, there is a high cost already in the preparation of a well-established base, often building walls are needed. The need to build steel safety fences on dangerous sections is much greater than the capacity. In order to achieve the same safety standard as in lowland areas, these fences should be installed practically on the entire route of roads, which would again be an exceptional cost. The analysis shows that the above costs cost more than 10% of the budget or on average a quarter of the annual resources available to such municipalities for investments. That finding shows that municipalities in hilly areas are in an unequal position compared to other plains. The current legislation does not take into account the criteria for financing municipalities of this fact. I therefore ask the Minister: When and how will these factors be taken into account when regulating the financing of municipalities, so that the hilly local communities will actually receive fair funding in practice? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u207	Mr. Minister, Dr. Lulcanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u208	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that the effective functioning of local self-government is extremely important for our country, and I am well aware of that. Perhaps at the time of my current ministry, there was not enough opportunity to take seriously all issues related to local self-government, including the differences between, say, hilly municipalities and those that are valley, or urban, and those that are more rural. This question is now on the agenda. In particular, if I go back to what I said earlier, we in general in the Government are very well aware of the importance of the functioning of local self-government, municipalities, Slovenia, even when it comes to the use of European money, and a whole range of other things. That is how all of these issues, in addition to what you, Madam Member, have mentioned in connection with the functioning of municipalities or local self-government, are still a whole bunch and will be dealt with in a short time. In view of the situation in which our country is, first of all, the issues related to the financing of municipalities. Here I would like to say that the financing of the municipalities is linked to the jurisdiction of the congregations. As at national level, we will have to ask ourselves when it comes to state administration, whether all the powers exercised by ministries are absolutely necessary – especially in these times of crisis, and regardless of times of crisis. I am convinced that congregations should do the same and also consider whether in reality all the powers vested in the congregations are as original as those transferred by the State to them — the other, of course, we will have to find out together — are absolutely essential. This could be some kind of general framework related to the issue of community funding. The Law on Community Financing is one of the laws that will be very short-lived. For the last time, at the government meeting, we have decided to present, together with the Minister of Finance of the Government, this Thursday, we present to the government how we envision a change in this law. And that's what we're gonna do this Thursday. It will apply generally to the funding system. Professional services have also provided me with some information or answers specifically related to your question. From what I have been prepared, it is evident that funding for the municipalities is being monitored on a regular basis, i.e. in various situations where funding for the municipalities is involved, even when it comes to the problem of hilly municipalities. In fact, some of the information points to what you have warned yourself. I can say that when we move into the reform of the Law on the Financing of the Communities, and this will be in the coming weeks, we will also address this problem as a whole, as well as a number of other problems, or the issues involved in the financing of the municipalities, pay particular attention and do everything in our power to ensure that such situations as you describe in your question and the professional services in what they have prepared are partially confirmed by me will no longer occur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Darko Jazbec will ask the Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u210	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to the Minister and to all present! I'm always interested in a topic that I still can't understand about public health. This is a problem of the integration of district health care institutions with the IVZ. We now have nine of these institutions that work well, professionally and in particular financially non-problem. The government has proposed that two institutions be made at the moment; one would deal with public health on a professional basis and the other would deal more with laboratory activity. The positive Slovenia also convened an extraordinary meeting of the Health Committee, where we tried to address this issue professionally; it lasted for several hours. The need for this extraordinary meeting has been recognised and I must say that we have heard many more arguments against this merger than we have for. In fact, after reviewing all these data, it is evident that somehow there are no valid professional reasons. If something doesn't work right, it's probably a problem that it doesn't work well, not that it can't. And there are no financial reasons. When the whole country saves, there is a lot to be done under this austerity challenge. Here, too, I see that the proposal to amend the Health Action Act provides EUR 1.5 million in savings from this title. I want to know: How did you get this number or if this savings can be structured? However, it must be said that funding for public health programmes has also decreased to 50% over the last 15 years. These regional institutions have acquired money from a market activity that is essentially lacking to comply with this programme and has had a synergistic effect. If we bring this together now, there will be less market activity and less money coming into the public health system. This works to me as well as now the government works on the principle of the state; to give everything to savings and to reduce on the revenue side. And if you have 1 minus 2, you have a minus 1. So I don't see any very difficult reasons for this maintenance. But I'd like to know: How do you see that on the savings side?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u211	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u212	Thank you. I must say, I am really pleased with this question. Because the more I listen to this, the more I am sure that it was necessary to propose this and that it is also necessary to do so. In fact, where there is a lot of money in the interest – and here it is – there is also a lot of pressure, calls to you, lobbying and the like. And this has happened whenever any attempt has been made to change the status of current health care institutions. So let me immediately say that the basic and starting objective for this change is certainly not in the first place saving, but professional work. My main concern is – and this can also be supported by numbers – that work in as few of these institutions harm public health at the expense of market work. It is said that the basic starting point is the separation of public and market work, but not as some directors show, that they are solving public works through market work. Of course, that's not true, and everyone doesn't have laboratory activity either. That's how it can't hold up the criteria. On the other hand, we need to know that today all these, including laboratories, compete within the public health system also offer very different prices and that is why hospitals also pay very different prices for, say, microbiological investigations. On the other hand, it is necessary to know that any such laboratory that wishes to do a great deal of activity needs very expensive equipment, needs a lot of expertise and needs accreditation. Also from this title are a few savings from that million and a half savings. In fact, just as in health care – and of course elsewhere – it makes sense to do something in a place where there are enough investigations, enough interventions to ensure quality, rational, quality work. If I look at public health within Slovenia, there are not very many experts in this field. I think that by integrating into one national public health institute, we are bringing together a great deal of public health, knowledge in this area and a single doctrine in this area. In fact, in the past, and not very long ago, there was quite a variety of information by public health, how to act, I don't know, with a mouse fever. One institution recently boasted at the beginning of the school that he had ordered schools and kindergartens to flush the pipe against the Legion, which is professional nonsense and so on. So, I think that public health needs to be managed from just one place with the help of experts available. Finally, we can add some savings to the management of human resources services, directors and the like. Nevertheless, I still see as the main objective of all of this that market interest is in those institutions that are doing very well. Of course, I hope to tell you what they are and who are putting pressure on you, but this is probably not the subject of this discussion right now. In any way, we want the laboratory market activity to do its work rationally, economically and qualitatively, of course to the extent that it can – certain things are sufficient, but of course not in every institution, but not in nine, but perhaps in one or two – and a public health component that will bring these experts together in this area. Of course, they will lead this doctrine and expertise in a uniform way, without interfering with the market component, which I think does not belong to public health. Maybe more information. This does not provide for any abolition of institutions, but it is simply a separation in this segment. Everyone only performs specifics in his or her field. But there are many common tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u213	Mr. Jazbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u214	Thank you very much for your answer. I'm not quite sure I understood everything. I'm going to read my tape again at home. There is no secret at all that anyone would pressure me or our Group of Members, because I tell you the answer: all nine institutions, with whom we write, are against. Otherwise, the meeting of the Health Committee was open and public. But it could be a secret on the other side. Who's pushing for a monopoly on laboratory activity, but now's not the time to sell out. It's not a lot of money when you explain. For example, the Ministry of Health gives only 3.4 million euros per year to all institutions for the entire year for activity, and then the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia another 2 million euros. If we look at how much money the state gives public health to 3.2 billion annual money for all health care, we are talking about 0.2% of the money. I don't think we're gonna be able to make any savings here right now. The main problem I see is not in money, but that the periphery, as it is now, will be lost on importance. Centralisation is being introduced, [[Incomprehensible]] Public knowledge experts will be lost, the possibility of EU funding can be reduced and specific activities in the region lost. So, the perception of a problem and the solution of this problem in some remote regions, this has shown many of these regional institutions that Ljubljana will not be able to solve. In any case, the regions are losing out on the quality of public health — leaving money behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u215	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u216	Of course I can't agree with you. I think public health is gaining such a change. If we look at absolute numbers, even 5 million or 50 million is a lot of money — but we are primarily talking about market work that can be shared and shared in other ways. I say: and as for expertise and the rest and the importance of the regions, your claims do not stand. Once again, it is not a matter of abolishing anyone, it is a single doctrine, which is today, thanks to the autonomy of individual leaderships, and so several times the wrong instructions on their part, and not least: taking a public share in a market account, which I think is unacceptable. But the interest is great, which is obvious.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u217	Here you go, Mr. Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u218	The topic is very important and, above all, it is necessary to work in the interests of the electorate and the electorate. In this regard, I would like to propose a public debate on this subject. In fact, the problem I see elsewhere is not a national vision and a public health strategy. This should be done by the Ministry of Health and the Institute for Health Protection, and only on the basis of this strategy can then possible reorganisation change. In my health care, in fact, it saves by increasing the importance of the prevention and health promotion segment to invest more money in this. But only with greater prevention in the health sector will there be less costs then for the treatment of the disease. It seems to me that this way of saving in health care is more proper. In short, I propose a debate on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mag. Lejla Hercegovac will ask the Minister of Finance Dr. Janez Šuštersič – I apologize – and the Minister for Economic Development and Technology mag. Happy Zerjava.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u220	Nice greetings to the ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! Although I am a doctor, but since I have many friends associated with this question, I am going to ask this question today. Harmful and contradictory legal arrangements in Slovenia are also legally contested, and in particular it has brought to its attention those who have decided to establish a company with unlimited liability and thus to take over the guarantee with all their personal property for the business risks of this company. In fact, your ministry has directly transposed the legal provisions as a bill-maker into our law on companies under German law. The essential difference between our legislation and German law is that it is a natural person in German law and that we have a legal person with unlimited liability. Legal person status: as a legal person, he has the right to take business decisions and have the right to make his own profits in accordance with the decisions of his management. Such a completely wrong solution was made by the Ministry of Finance, which introduced provisions on automatic taxation of profits in the applicable Income Act. I therefore ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology and the Minister for Finance: Does the Ministry of Economy, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, consider appropriate amendments to Article 94, Article 95, Article 96 and Article 97 of the Law on companies which define, inter alia, the compulsory imputation of profits created by a company with unlimited liability, which in Slovenia has legal personality status, to the capital shares of its owners, irrespective of whether that profit is used for the purposes of operating, investing that company? This tax regime places two legal persons in an unequal position: an unlimited society and a limited liability society, which should differ only according to the liability of the shareholders to the obligations of the company. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u221	Mag. Radovan Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u222	Thank you very much for that question. A company with unlimited liability is in accordance with the provisions of the Company Act of two or more persons responsible for the obligations of the company with all their assets, as you yourself have said. Therefore, a company with unlimited liability is classified as a private company. The company shall be established by a contract between the parties in which legal relations between the parties are also regulated. Article 94 of the ZGD provides that at the end of each financial year, profit or loss shall be determined on the basis of the annual accounts and its share of profits or losses shall be calculated for each participant. In the second paragraph of the same Article, the law provides that the members of a company with unlimited liability shall be credited to its capital share. However, the calculated share of the shareholder in the loss and the money he raised during the business year shall be deducted from the capital share. Notwithstanding the above, under Article 96 of the ZGD, each shareholder may raise money from a cash company up to 5 % of its own, in the previous financial year of the established capital share. Moreover, it may also require payment of its share in profits in the previous financial year, which exceeds those 5 %, unless this would appear to be to the detriment of the company. The latest amendment to the company law was adopted in the National Assembly this July as part of the second package to promote economic growth and was published on 27 July this year. The Ministry of Economic Development does not currently have in its plan the changes of the GDD in this segment and we do not see why in this change, given that this is clear all the time and there has never been a problem, we think that in this segment, of course, we would go together d. o. o. and d.o.o. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u223	Mag. He's a duke. Here you go. Just a moment, Madam Member, Minister Janez Šušteršič would like to give an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u224	Thank you very much. We still have a minute. I would only add that the tax treatment of this follows how this is regulated by the basic law, which is the ZGD. It is true that the treatment is as you asked. It is also true that, in recent times, the Tax Administration has begun to see this more precisely and also to enforce this regime, which may not have been established so far, and that there may have been increased questions about it. We believe that, as long as such an arrangement exists, the tax regime is also consistent and we do not intend to change it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u225	Mag. Duke, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u226	Mr. Minister, you've read the articles I have, and I also have an explanation from Durs. However, this means that the company’s profits with unlimited liability, which this company has invested in the development of activities, are always taxed with a corporate income tax of 18 % at present. The difference then arises in the additional taxation of net profit, which in this company with unlimited liability is automatically 20%, but we know it will be from 1. 1. 2013 Taxation of 25 %. A limited liability company shall be subject to such additional taxation of profits only on the basis of the decision of the owner or the assembly to distribute the resulting profit among the shareholders and thus not remain available to the company for its development or other activities. As you explained, if it is a minus, it should be replaced. But if it's a plus, then it goes to dividends and extra taxes. Do you think that's right?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u227	You want an answer from any of the ministers? Yeah. Dr. Schusterschitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u228	Of course, this is where it is thought to be taxed in the same way as the dividend. It is also true that this rate is rising to 25%. Three or several months ago, we tried to make a lot of speeches about the need to raise the rate of income while we are saving in public finances. I am pleased that today, two questions were raised by the opposition; the first was about fishermen, because the 50% rate of income was horribly exposed – which I think is great. Also, the fact that we've raised the capital gains tax, which now bothers someone, actually seems fine to me. Besides, I don't think we're going to change that, but I think it's okay that this consciousness is slowly coming, that raising taxes isn't so easy, that it hurts someone, so it's not like it's an automatic substitute for, say, saving or anything like that. I hope that you will think similarly at some time when there will be an increase in taxes on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u229	Mag. Duke, do you have a request?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u230	Thank you for your answers. But since this is a harmful and contradictory legal order of society, I did not get an answer as to whether it was indeed prescribed in German law and how it is with us. I propose that a general debate be held on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u231	On the proposal of the Ambassador mag. Mr Hercegovac, to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Magi. Radovan Žerjava and Minister Janez Šuštersič will decide on her question on Wednesday, 26 September 2012, as part of the vote. Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Good evening to Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues and other ministers! My question concerns a rather current topic, this is a pension reform. The fact is, in the last decade, all developed countries have adopted a simple pension reform because demographic indicators are so deteriorating that they seriously threaten the stability of the pension fund. This problem is even more acute in Slovenia, because in addition to the extension of life expectancy – we know it increases by 2.5 years in ten years – it also reduces fertility, we have one of the lowest births in Europe and the sustainability of the pension register is questioned. The ruling party of the current coalition has repeatedly denied that we need a pension reform as soon as possible. If we recall their discussions in the last round of the law, they ensured that the amendment was not necessary until 2015 at least. This same claim was reiterated by the current case of Mr Janez Janša in his opening speech. I therefore ask the Minister a number of questions regarding the pension reform, which is now under intensive debate. First question: When did the government assess that pension reform should be adopted by the end of this year? In view of everything previously said and given that you had not announced the pension reform at the beginning of your term of office until 2013 or this year. The second question is the very complex issue of 430 articles. As it is said, the negotiations with the partners are intensive, while the opposition's representatives about what is happening can be learned from the daily newspaper or other media, even more cheaply because you agreed to keep quieter than to keep the public informed. When and how do you intend to include the opposition in the debate in order to reach constructive dialogue? Last, perhaps most important question: assessing financial effects. It is evident that the objectives of pension reform are practically the same as those of the reform that fell at the referendum, namely to ensure the sustainability of the pension fund and to halt the fall in pensions. Very specific: How long will this reform ensure the sustainability of the pension fund by which year? At what level in the burden of GDP? What amount of pensions can pensioners expect after this reform? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u233	Mr. Minister Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u234	Your Honor! When the government assessed the need to speed up this reform – when, with everyone, the planned measures were not able and will not be able to stop the decline of credit ratings and the deepening of the public financial crisis in that country until then. That was about the end of spring this year. At that time, we assessed that changes should be made by the end of the year in order to stabilise the pension allowance and the budget in the coming years. Second question. When do we intend to include the opposition? The opposition was immediately included on the basis of an agreement between the Presidents of the parliamentary parties. At the same time, we sent the opposition texts of all laws, including the opposition, and called for an agreement to start negotiations with the opposition. We look forward to your comments and to the invitation to an interview to start negotiating processes, as they are already under way within the framework of a coalition with parliamentary groups and also on the theme of the political parties of the coalition; they are taking place with the social partners. I will also be happy to attend a meeting with you or your Group of Members if you express your interest in this. Third, the assessment of the financial implications and until when these proposed laws offer financial sustainability. The financial impact assessment for next year is € 153 million and for 2014 about €230 to 240 million, as proposed by these measures. Following the model simulations of the Institute for Economic Research, such a reform would mean the stability of the pension fund, with relatively unenviable developments in the economy by 2020 – until then. We estimate that the Government, with other measures in the field of economic recovery, will also be able to reverse these negative trends. Economic recovery, too, new jobs represent an important contribution to pension reform, as they have a positive impact on the relationship between insurers and pensioners. For if you remember my performances in the previous pension reform, I have missed a series of effective measures to revive the economy. The recovery of the economy is a very important contribution to the stabilisation of the pension fund. As today Minister Žerjav, Minister Šuštaršič and others represented all packages for economic development, for the promotion of foreign investment and also for the opening of new jobs, at the same time I presented some measures of active employment policy, and we want this part to be an important addition or an important, say, accompanying measure of pension reform. I think I answered everything you specifically asked me. If you don't, you will be, no doubt, in addition.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u235	Here you go, Dr. Blackakov.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u236	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. I'm glad you missed what we told you earlier in the spring. There were very precise forecasts of what this would mean if pension reform fell for credit ratings and other costs for the Slovenian economy. In short, you just confirmed what we've already calculated. Second thing. I'm glad we'll respond to the invitation. Thirdly, it is linked to the sustainability of the pension register. The reform we designed ensured sustainability until 2025, yours for only seven years. That is to say, let us tell the Slovenian people, before we stop this pension reform, we will already talk about a new, substantially tighter pension reform; it is important that the baby boom generation is safely put to rest under the most favourable conditions. Third thing. By the way. Our assessment, as well as the Institute for Economic Research, calculated that with our solutions in 2025 the burden of gross domestic product for pensions would be 11.3%, which is practically a tenth more than today. This is said to be really long-term or at least medium-term sustainability. The question I've asked yet concerns the level of pensions. The fact is, both your dose percentage and the valorisation factor are much lower than ours or those embedded in our reform. That's why I'm specifically interested in: What kind of pension do you guarantee to pensioners? How will the fall of pensions be stopped? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u237	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Maybe at the end, because it's easier to answer. We foresee a suspension of the drop in pensions, a suspension of the dose percentage at the current level, that is 78%, and we anticipate a halting of the valorisation factor at the current level. We're stopping the situation right here. That's what we say, we're preventing a further fall in pensions and the insurance companies can count on this stop. For if this is not accepted, there will continue to be a drop of as much as, in view of the sad reconciliation of pensions, also of the valorisation factor. That's one thing. Second thing. Two years ago, when we opposed pension reform, because it was in Parliament at the time, we hoped that the then government would stop the negative trends in the economy, prevent the financial system from breaking and prevent the credit crunch. None of this happened in two years from then on until today. We are now on the path of these measures, which you will also consider in Parliament, as regards the release of credit crunches or the resolution of bad claims in banks. If that were to happen two years ago, we would not need a pension reform today. I think that other measures could substantially compensate for the negative effects recorded by credit ratings. Now we see that more measures must be taken at the same time if we are to prevent these negative trends and turn them in a positive direction. That is why this is not a change of opinion, but just, say, crisis response in times of crisis. As far as the stability of pension reform is concerned. Your Honor, I wouldn't talk about a dead horse. Your marriage is something that has never seen the light of the world because it was bad. And don't refer to anything bad that doesn't apply and it would be very difficult to ever apply. This was not rejected by the Slovenian Democratic Party or by the remaining opposition, but was rejected by the people at the referendum. This case has had an end to the piano and to talk about something that would have happened if it had been, it's very thoughtful. In particular, because those measures were not accompanied by economic recovery measures. With full responsibility, I say that no pension reform, yet so radical, nor will it be proposed by us, will be stable in the long term if we fail to turn economic indicators into green numbers at the same time. No pension reform will save the stability of the pension fund if the relationship between pensioners and the insured continues to grow negatively. If there's more and more pensioners, less and less insurance, there's nothing to help us. We need to overcome this relationship, and this can only be done with new jobs, with economic activity.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u239	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u240	Mr. Minister, maybe you can convince someone else, but you won't convince me. The fact is, your assessment is still wrong. The fact is that we need pension reform mainly because of demographic relations. What's going on with the economic situation is the continuation of the story. By the way, don't forget a series of lost opportunities for your mandate when you haven't saved practically anything for a dry cow. Also, the effects that you now draw on words are very large on paper when we see them when they actually start working, and then we can trust you. As far as pension reform is concerned, which has failed, I would say that it has been ambitiously set; it is, however, misinterpreted in the wrong time. However, to design a pension reform for only 7 years, while telling the young population that you will be maintaining this pension fund, expect the situation to deteriorate dramatically for you tomorrow, probably not the most encouraging climate for designing solutions. I'd say I'd expect a bolder and more determined solution. As far as the fall in pensions is concerned. The fact is that pensions are already below 60%, that is to say, somewhere around here is supposed to stop. The reform that we have designed, as I said, has planned not only to stop the decline, but also to increase pensions, especially for those who are most at risk. Otherwise, we will have much more to talk about, so I do not expect any special debates at this stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u241	Dr. Črnak Meglič, I expected you to request a discussion on your question, so I gave you my word. In the future, I'd like to ask you to stick to the rules of procedure. Please. Mr Branko Ficko will ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u242	Good evening! Mr. Minister, the topic is promotional activity. Have you eaten fish today? In February 2012, the Ministry of Agriculture launched the first national general promotion action for aquaculture and fishery products. In its press release, it stated, inter alia, that the main objective of the action is to improve the visibility of fishery products of local origin or production, to increase consumption per capita and to improve the supply of products. The action cost the poor 700,000 euros. The height is enormous from marketing practice. Only three months later, the Ministry issued an invitation to tender for the implementation of a measure of permanent cessation of fishing activities. The basic objective is to protect and preserve fishing resources and the final result of the implementation of this measure is that for a vessel, the activities of marine economic fishing will cease for all time. Slovenian fishermen caught only 719 tonnes of fish last year, compared to the 1990 data, when fishermen caught as many as 6,000 tonnes of fish. This year Slovenia imports about 10,000 tonnes of fish. So if we caught fish in 1990 for more than half of our needs, today we will only catch and process less than a dozen of the fish we need. So we're promoting something we don't have. Dear Minister: What will be the effect of promotional activities on the supply of local-origin or production fish at the same time as the cut-off of ships? How does the above-mentioned strategy comply with your ministry's strategy to increase local food consumption? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u243	Minister, Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u244	Thank you for the question that you have made quite wide out of what has been announced, but since I saw what my predecessors have prepared at the time of the launch of the mandate, I have really asked myself in detail about this invitation to tender. This is a call that was made before I arrived. This is an invitation to tender for the promotion of fish nutrition. €350,000 was spent on European money, $30,000 was a Slovenian share, $90,000 was VAT. So it's a total of EUR 540 thousand. I myself have had and still have concerns about the eligibility of this action, but it is certainly an action that does not only talk about the use of marine fish. The data provided by you on these 719 tonnes for 2011 is correct. It should be added that we also produce about that much in the Slovenian aquaculture sector, while at the same time it is a so-called generic promotion in which food habits are promoted. I would also be very happy if we had this supply significantly greater at home than we have – a total of 15% if we were to add up the fish catches as well as the fish farms. Otherwise, it has to do with this measure. This is a measure from the Fisheries Fund Permanent cessation of fishing activities. Eight projects have been approved, not just those two, and this is, as the source, the permanent cessation of fishing activities. This is about two vessels mentioned. It is called Fish 1, Fish 2, then they are vessels using a pelagic trawl, four vessels with so-called cabins, towing nets, one vessel of the purse seine and one vessel where a standing net is used as the main tool. As far as these two boats are concerned and the numbers you listed are valid. We know that Slovenia's catch of Slovenian fishermen, as you said, fell sharply with 4 000 800 in 1991, so it was already less than 2,000 tons in 1993. Then, for a decade until 2002, we came from under a thousand tonnes: at 904 tonnes in 2009, and now this catch rotates between 900, 700, 800 tonnes per year. It is also a matter of knowing that both Fish 1 and Fish 2 and other similar boats in the past have been fishing not only in our sea, but that this common sea has been used in the past, as well as international waters, and that, in recent years, due to the increase in fuel prices and also to the other fishing situation, the interest of the owners of these ships has fallen significantly, as this fishing, which required to go deep into the open sea, has become increasingly less profitable. Therefore, catches of these two boats have also fallen over the last few years and, in line with the European fisheries policy in this perspective, when it was still possible to implement this measure of permanent cessation of fishing activities, the fishermen decided to do so in this part, as I mentioned. What do these two boats mean? Now they mean a good half of that catch, that 700 tons. It is also true that these two boats and these fishermen did not sell most of this catch either on our coast or on the market exchange, where most of the fish caught are sold, but on the wholesaler, a wholesaler from central Italy. 80 to 90% of these fish, caught by these two boats, were sold in such a way and not in the way that these smaller boats have, when sold either in or in Trieste on the stock market. Therefore, it is also a basic assessment of the colleagues from the Directorate accompanying this area that, due to the cut-off of these two boats, not to expect any significantly smaller supply of this type of fish and this sales, which is very interesting in relation to tourism, but is, as I have already said, for the sale of fish to these wholesalers. As I have already said, the owners of these ships took advantage of this measure and considered it appropriate at that time.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u245	Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. Would you like another question? Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u246	I must admit, I understand your point. Otherwise, you're saying that the former Minister has already concluded these matters, but I can't help feeling that every activity can be stopped in some way if we don't think it's reasonable. At the end of the day, when we are facing this extraordinary public financial crisis, even when we are listening to catastrophic bankruptcy forecasts by the President of the Government, I would expect you, as Minister, to deal carefully with the funds that you have at your disposal. I would expect you to direct the funds to meaningfully related measures that benefit the entire society over the long term. This is totally irrelevant when it comes to the European Union's resources, as they are, after all, all our resources. What is the point of promoting the visibility of fishery products if you are soon gone? At the end of the main player who took part in this promotion activity, we also worked at the Ministry of Economics for the award. Dear Minister, please explain in concrete terms: What is the point of spending money on unrelated actions with completely opposite effects? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u247	A complementary answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u248	I repeat: I have no habit of saying too much about my predecessors. However, I also do not have this habit of not taking into account the commitments made by the previous Government for the commitments undertaken. Even more so, because this is also part of the fisheries fund programme – part of the policy that has been agreed and which has enabled these €350,000 of European funds from the fisheries fund – to be part of the operational programme for fisheries, as well as this measure of permanent cessation of fishing activities. There will be no more in the next perspective of this measure. It is clear that fishermen are also in view of the trends in this sector in terms of fishing opportunities, and especially the pressure on sustainable catches; it is said that sea degradation would be reduced. That's why this is a measure. This measure is not because the seas would be full of fish, but because the European Commission is dealing with the need to regulate sustainable fisheries, it is true to reduce catches. We are all aware that Slovenian fishermen cannot or will not save the European fishing zone if we know that Croatia has around 50,000 tonnes there, and Italy has twice as many as three times. It's about minor effects. However, according to the fishermen's claims and assurances, the cost of fishing for these boats has been the same in recent years due to the remoteness of these areas and fuel costs and their catch. That's their decision. As far as this promotion is concerned, as I have already said, you cannot stop the commitments you have made, but more; it is a generic promotion in which there is also a lifestyle, a diet style, and that is why fish is offered in the dining room. I claim and also agree with what your fellow Member of the People's Party said that I would very much like to see if there was any "pig fish" here and then this money would also be for pigs. I would have supported such a measure several times more, but as I have already said, I did not have this option, and even within the fisheries fund "pig fish" we could not promote – to explain this too.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u249	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Renata Brunskole, asking the Minister for Economic Development and Technology mags. Happy Zerjava.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Mr President! The programme to promote the competitiveness of the Colony in 2011-2016 was adopted in order to reduce the development of barriers and to encourage economic activities to exploit the development opportunities of the area with a combination of seven concrete measures. The operational objectives of the Pocolpja programme until 2016 are to reduce the backlog in economic development and to restructure traditional sectors in Pocolp with new programmes. The indicator of achievement – to directly create 400 new jobs with new programmes in existing and new companies and to raise net added value in Pocolp to employees faster than the average in Slovenia. However, the second operational objective of the programme is to improve the supply of Kolpija with infrastructure and to increase the accessibility of White Krajina and Kočevska by accelerating the construction of transport infrastructure. With all the measures and programmes and operational objectives, we would somehow try to further stimulate the economy in the Pocolpian area and, in particular, at the time of the economic crisis, encourage entrepreneurship in this area. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: At what stage of implementation is each individual measure contained in the programme since the combined seven measures for the development of the Pocolupium? What measurable results of the programme are already visible: the number of new employees, the number of economic operators involved in the co-financing of projects and the number of these projects, the number of supported farms with complementary or additional activities, transport and rail infrastructure and so on — all that is mentioned in the programme. At the same time, I should like to point out that employees have only two months of contract management in the framework of the Pocolpa Development Manager. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Secretary, in: What activities is your Ministry planning to implement these seven measures in 2013? However, given that it is quite broad, this is the seven measures on which you have already answered me very clearly on one of the previous questions, and I would ask you more to give me the concrete results you have achieved so far. In fact, people in the area of Pocolpja have repeatedly told me that they have no sense of the actual effect or of the results of this promotion programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u251	Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u252	Thank you very much. I understand your wishes. I'm gonna try and telegraph-walk after what's been done. I'll also try to figure out the results. As you said – seven measures. Under the first measure, we have the so-called four instruments – I will not specifically appoint them here. Under the first instrument, two tenders were published in 2012. The first call was made – just over €5 million, of which €3 million 200 back, €800 million for 2012. The first call came within 66 applications requesting a total of 10 million, slightly more than 10 million grants, and provided for 299 new jobs. The resources presented would therefore be sufficient to co-finance slightly less than half of the value indicated. Following the review process, 38 projects were selected for co-financing of applications and complaints, all complete and eligible projects prepared for A and A and B tourism. The rest of the assets in the A-Tourism and B-Tourism and A-Tourism were transferred to Unit B, amounting to 546 thousand. The beneficiaries were invited to sign the contracts. 6 beneficiaries did not respond in time to the signature of the contract or withdrew from the project and only 32 initial investment projects are implemented, namely 10 in Kočevska and 22 in Bela Krajina. As part of the implementation of the projects, 166 new jobs have been created, 57 in Kočevska and 109 in Beli krajina, and 51 new beds in tourist facilities. Of the 32 projects to be implemented, 19 projects are for investment in the production of the activity. Two projects are in the area of construction, eight in the field of services and three in the field of tourism. The largest number of jobs will be created on projects implementing the production of the activity – 132. Then there was another invitation to tender. The means for the other invitation to tender were made available after the amendment of the programme and partly from the remainder of the funds referred to in the first invitation to tender. A total of EUR 700,000 was awarded, all for Unit B. The investors anticipated a total of 92 new jobs – that I would not be here all, I would give you all the information later. Then instrument 2: under the Pokolpi programme will be supported by the creation or initiation of the development of the incubator; what we have already talked about: Kanjiarica in the municipality of Črnomelj and the purchase of additional premises for further development of PIK Kočevje. Unfortunately, activities are not carried out following planned dynamics, but we estimate that investment documentation for the purchase of PIK Kočevje premises will be completed this week – I hope this will happen – and the problem of buying space for TRIS Kanjiarica by the end of this year. It's the closing rooms of the mine. That's how this case will be resolved. Instrument 1.3. The Ministry of Economic Development, the Ministry of Labour finance the construction of a residential unit with the dementia of the House of Older Citizens of Kočevje and the dispersed unit of the House of Rest Metlik. Both investments are in operation, or with a few delays in selecting the contractor of works in Kočev or in obtaining a building permit for the Metlik Holiday House. That's how this thing works. I'm going to touch Action Two. The Employment Office launched the implementation of the measure immediately after the adoption of the Regulation amending and supplementing the Regulation on the Functioning of Regional State Aid, as in line with the timetable for the Pocolpje programme, which aims to encourage employment in an area where unemployment has naturally increased critically – and this area is, of course, so. By the end of August 2012, a thousand 847 people had reported on information points in Kočev and Montenegro. In the training provided by the Crnomelj Institute of Education and Culture in the area of the White Region and in Kočevska Karis d.o.o., 806 persons were enrolled in the period from the second half of March to 31 August. As far as action 3 - 3, 4, 5, 6 is concerned, I will tell you later. As regards the planned activities in 2012, the call for proposals [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] I'll be in touch.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u253	I assume you're requesting a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u254	Yes, please. Thank you very much for your answer so far. In connection with 2013 I will also ask you if you will give me an additional reply. In this regard, I have already asked you, because a large number of unemployed people in the area of Pokolpja, both Kočevsky and White Krajina, are also asking me as a Member about the results. That is why some people have a feeling – and this is the answer you gave me – 1847 people came forward, as you said, and at this point 166 new jobs could be provided: 129 in the White landscape and 57 in Kočevska. That is why, probably to you and to me, it is commonly clear why there is no such effect. Why did I ask you that? In the previous mandate, I recall when we adopted this programme or when the competent ministries prepared this matter and adopted it, it has been largely adopted in the National Assembly and is also one of the measures for which you have already pointed out several times today that it is important – it is about promoting the economy. Measure 6 is a transport infrastructure where there is also a third development axis. Here I would also appeal to you, Mr Minister, to the greatest extent possible in this area, to encourage the construction of such a third development axis, as it would also provide the necessary, urgently needed jobs. As we heard earlier, there are thousands of 847 people calling in and looking for work every day. Among them are many people who are still missing – today I have met a lady: two years to retirement, so to speak without the means of survival. It's hard.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u255	Here you go. You have three more minutes, Minister, to complete.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u256	Thank you very much. This measure 6 is one of the key concerns of transport links. I have already answered this question today, related not only to the third A development axis, but to the developmental eights at all, and to the Government's thinking that, within the search for a potential concessionaire for Slovenian motorways, we are trying to find one who might be willing to finance this road infrastructure, which is of course very important. However, I can say that all relevant documentation is being prepared intensively, but the grounds that are important for this, even though we know that there was no room problem on the southern part of the third development axis. Perhaps a sentence or two – planned activities in 2013. The call for initial investments – Measure 1, instrument,1 for 2013 and 2014 will be published in November this year. The implementation of the other instruments of measure 1 of both incubators, i.e. TRIS Kanjiarica and PIK Kočevje, and both home for the elderly will be intensified. Action 2 and Action 3, i.e. the reimbursement of paid contributions from the employer for social security and tax reliefs for employment, investment in the Pocolpium, will be fully implemented and will have positive effects. As a result, this is my personal assessment, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology expects other authorities to accelerate the implementation of measures from their work area, regardless of the current delays in implementation – some are objective. I estimate that all these objectives set out in this programme will be achieved by the end of 2016. I'll take it personally to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Pukšič is next. The question is for the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, and the Minister of Justice and Public Administration, Dr. Senko Plicanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Ministers! This question, which I am referring to these two ministers today, will be on the menu of my questions by the end of this term and will count from month to month, so I will set the counters to what will happen to these tycoons. It is likely that the issue will still need to be extended to the Minister of Finance. Dear Mr. Secretary. Recently, several more skeletons fell from the crowded closet of harmful irregularities, illegal business decisions in the state-owned business of Slovenian banks. This is a matter of contentious business in the New Bank of Credit Maribor and the New Bank of Ljubljana – I also referred to the former Prime Minister, Mr Borut Pahor, and the Minister of Finance, Mr Križanič, but there were no results – in which a few hundred million euros were badly damaged. The disastrous business decisions in both state banks and state-owned companies, which have been extremely large in recent years, and which are both indirectly and directly responsible for the multibillion-euro gap in Slovenian banks, are faced by concrete people with names and surnames. And that is exactly what I want to say no more about state banks, about state-owned companies, but about the names and surnames of administrations and supervisory councils. Slovenian taxpayers, who have recapitalised Slovenian banks several times in the past, now have to give up a lot of money to survive at all, are interested in who these key individuals, who have abused their positions, have taken such irresponsible and reckless moves that the whole country now suffers from the consequences and their actions. That is why these people, who are in the government coalition, are now responsibly calling on our country to justify and restore confidence in justice and the rule of law so that we can speak publicly about this crime with names and surnames. Unfortunately, Mr Minister, in the prosecutions and the courts, things have started to get complicated, they stop there because of proceedings or things get old. I'm asking you: When and how will they act to hold individuals responsible for billions of losses accountable?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u259	Mr. Minister, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u260	Thank you very much. So I will say, Mr Member, what you have asked is certainly a first-class question, to which the answer is somewhat less than two million people. Surely this answer is not just a matter of a few hundred people, but those few hundred people belong to the place where it is said that investigations are needed. At the same time, I have to tell you the following. The data that was, say, published in the media: I can't confirm them, I can't deny them. Let me stay on this side. They have names and surnames, such credits have names and surnames, but there is also a need to know: for the police, for the prosecution, and later for the judiciary there is not enough name and surname and signature on the credit line. There's more to the police and the D.A.'s office. We must have all the ways you could see in the case of the Maribor case that you have dealt with, these paths often reach into foreign countries and therefore work in this area is complicated. Besides, we have one more thing to prove. Indeed, it is that if you have seen somewhere now mentioned that some credit is not secured and it has been said in the media, someone has granted an unsecured loan, of course this does not mean that it was not insured in 2007. At that time, he could have been insured, perhaps with shares that fell to 10% of the value. We won't be able to talk about the crime and we won't be able to talk about someone being guilty. There is something else we need to prove, which is a conjuration at the time of the service of an alleged act or at the time of the signature of such a credit field. However, I can tell you this: the coalition treaty binds us, the coalition MPs. I am aware of this, this is a first-class task, and this is also a first-class support for the efforts of all fellow ministers working on such and other reforms today. And finally, our people will accept reforms more and more easily if everything you ask starts to happen. Let me stress, however, that the role of Minister under our legislation is limited. We have a stand-alone police and a stand-alone prosecutor, and I will go along with the legal changes, hoping you'll confirm them, and there will be no shouting that this is a police and prosecution policy that I've already been involved in on one of the committees. Under Article 2 of the Police Act, I can also monitor and supervise the work of the police in this area. On that basis, I also have certain data. For understandable reasons, of course, I cannot operate on this data publicly, for 300 and so many reasons, if not for someone else's sake. That's why I'm gonna end up like this. You've seen something before. It started in Maribor. I promise you it will continue. I don't think you'll be able to record anything on this counter every month, but your counter will be turning in a positive direction. It is my job to ask all these people who are investigating this today to work more quickly, better and more effectively in this area. I am limited in options of opposition, so I can only say the following: The time of truth is coming — at least for those who will be first in line. But the species will be long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Dr. Lulcanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u262	I have to hurry very quickly. What I'd like to add to what Dr. Gorenak's colleague said is that you're absolutely right, Mr. Puksic. It is not right and it is not fair that not only this case mentioned, but other cases of major economic crime have not yet experienced a judicial epilogue. Well, one of these happened on the first stage. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Then I'll continue to supplement it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u263	Mr. Pukšič, please, perhaps a complement to the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u264	Absolutely. Mr. Minister, people live below the poverty line. Under the threshold of poverty, we must be aware of that. These gentlemen are still riding Mercedes today, living on yachts, one of them is on a pershing yacht that spends an hour thousand litres, and this gentleman is one of the leaders in Slovenian politics. A thousand liters of diesel talk or two average wages in one hour! One of them, he's only got one job, and he got 50 million credits. And so on. Mr. Secretary! If the legislation is bad, which is why they cannot act, there is a coalition here, and it is time for them to come with a change of legislation to the National Assembly and accept it so that they can work for the benefit of these citizens and citizens. That's all they want. If we want them to tighten up the belts, they want them to step on their fingers and take away their property. That's why I'm asking you: Why do we not apply the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin? Why isn't that being done? Is this marriage bad? If it's bad, it just needs to be changed. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u265	Dr. Lulcanic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u266	Thank you. Now I will be able to answer this very important question, or anything that raises this question of yours, a little more comfortable. I'd like to do it again. I agree with you that it is really wrong that it is not fair; you have given some examples of these very large, in the sky-screaming injustices: how much pershing is spent an hour and what are the average wages in Slovenia. I don't think there's much to be done here, but the main task is to do it on the one hand, the prosecution and the police; to do it faster than they have done before, and on the other hand, the judiciary. The judiciary will also have to judge more quickly and more effectively, particularly in such cases. What is very important in this is the confidence of people in the rule of law, in the judicial system, in the justice system in general, where the prosecution also belongs. We all know that this is low and will not rise until at least a few such cases have been concluded very quickly and very effectively, if not all those who will be brought before the courts. It is true that what colleague Gorenak said about the fact that people who have committed economic crime in the past ten or twenty years have certainly done so, at least in most cases, so that it will be very difficult to detect, on the one hand then prove, prepare indictments and then bring them through courts to, say, convictions. That's true. On the other hand, it is true that it is important for things to end, even though they are excusable. It is important that a really fast system of justice is set in motion, faster than ever before, to put an end to these things. That people, that we will all know together in Slovenia what is in fact, whether in fact there has been economic crime in all these cases, which are published in the media, where he has been, where he has not been and so on. In short, it's about speed, it's about efficiency. Here again, I must repeat to my colleagues, Gorenak, that the main responsibility lies with the prosecution and the police on the one hand, on the other hand, the judiciary and us as ministers – or the general executive branch of the government, which is represented by the government, has limited possibilities; and there are several options. It has the ability to monitor what is happening in practice and to react in such a way as to propose amendments to legislation if it finds that legislation is one that makes certain things not move. I can quickly identify what we've done and what we're going to do. Material legal and criminal law, I think both the prosecution and the police and the judiciary have everything they need. There is no time to now list what is in his hands, including the law you are mentioning, on the confiscation of assets of illegal origin, which we have heard has only been in force for a few months and therefore has not been used yet. However, these tools have been applied swiftly and quickly and effectively by the judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u267	Mr. Pukšič, do you have a proposal for public hearing?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u268	Thank you very much. The Minister agrees with you that there is a need to reach conclusions, and whatever they are, the conclusions will be as they will be accepted by the judiciary. But the judiciary has to do its job! But it's not like it's going to happen. It's not like it's the Big Guy, it's Zdenex, and so on. After ten years, things get old and stuff like that. By the way. In my previous mandate, I was a member of one of the investigative commissions, and as a member of the investigative commission, I saw some confidential documents, about some who created crime, the findings of the Tax Administration. Today, almost a year later, the judiciary or the prosecution have not taken any action. Well, it's time for these things to move. Of course, you, as ministers, have so many opportunities to intervene and to demand that the state authorities that are in your jurisdiction act, if not, to amend the legislation. People simply demand names and surnames from supervisory boards and administrations. They demand that this be made public and that those who have done so, both lenders and borrowers – you have talked about it before, Minister Gorenak – are responsible; they are responsible for all their assets; they are responsible for those who have attributed it to their immediate or distant relatives. Only these things need to be determined. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u269	Mr. Puksic [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u270	whether he had property — for the first time. [[...]] And secondly, if not, where the money came from — the source and whether it was paid to the State. If all of this wasn't done, then there's either theft or fraud.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u271	Mr Puksic, this is an abuse of the rules of procedure. By the way, you took advantage of the time that was meant to be completed. I know it's happened before with Dr. Black Blur. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that, irrespective of which parliamentary parties the Member or Member of Parliament comes from, we are in compliance with the Rules of Procedure. That goes for you, too, Mr Pukšič. Mag. Borut Ambrožič will ask the question of the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u272	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Hello, all present, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers! Mr. Secretary of State, Dr. Giga Turk! I am asking this question because, as an unrelated Member of Parliament, I could say, a party centralism, which, given the existing data related to my question, expresses, unfortunately, also at the level of private higher education in the field of health or health. If Slovenia were to be distributed both geographically and statistically to the western and eastern parts, it could be found that both parts have four higher education establishments. The fundamental difference is hidden in a discriminatory fact, which would also be worth dealing with by the Ombudsman, since only one in the eastern part of Slovenia from the state budget, namely in Maribor, together 120 students and 280 self-paying students. Unlike the western half of Slovenia, where all four higher education institutions are located in Ljubljana, New Town, Jesenica and Isolah, with a department in Nova Gorica that is licensed from the state budget, together for 325 students, of which only 135 are self-paid. It is generally known that in northeastern Slovenia, the highest deficit of personnel, but not just of health care, is also the most advantageous part of Slovenia, offering the best opportunity to carry out clinical practice in health and social institutions, since according to available information, hospital beds, for example, in Ljubljana, could be overburdened with students who are associated with practice in such institutions. In my case, it is not a regionally oriented issue, but it is a regionally determined discrimination which has also been publicly pointed out by students of the Alma Mater Europea Institute – the European Centre of Maribor or its dislocated unit in Murska Sobota, which in its new image represents a transformation of abandoned industrial complexes. We are talking about the area, namely the Pomur region, which in the 2009/2010 study year managed only one student per 25 population – in short, at least in Slovenia. In the region under discussion, there is also the greatest unemployment, the worst educational structure, the lowest life expectancy, the lowest GDP and household income, it could also be listed. The Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport was informed of the discriminatory attitude of the executive authority in the Slovenian Higher Education Area, specifically to students in Pomurje, as expressed by students in their statement. That's why I'm asking the minister: Has the department already taken steps to eliminate discrimination at regional level? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u273	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u274	Thank you so much for asking. I also find the question interesting about another debate. In this assembly, we usually listen to criticism that this government advocates having as many private higher education institutions as possible in Slovenia. Your question is actually going the other way, why there is not another private higher education institution, specifically in Prekmurje. The argument is somehow in the sense that this is almost a human right, that there is a higher education institution everywhere. I cannot agree to this argument that there are three in western Slovenia and only one in eastern Slovenia. If we divide Slovenia by the main highway axes, then there is a very symmetrical distribution: Jesenice, Ljubljana, Novo mesto in the middle, on one side of Koper, on the other side of Maribor. But it is only with such simple geography that higher education is not regulated, but it is not possible to ask questions or to raise such claims that Western Slovenia is in any special advantage. I need to ensure that the Ministry, when preparing the legal basis or implementing the legislation, never makes any distinctions between students, not as regards their place of residence, not as regards sex, not as regards nationality; all students are equal before the law. And this is the part about human rights. Students also have the same right of entry regardless of their place of residence. The residence is a criterion in the allocation of rights arising from student status, such as in subsidised residence. Likewise, the Ministry does not distinguish between higher education institutions, as all institutions are the same before the law. The Institute of Higher Education may be established and carried out if it fulfils the legal conditions in respect of material, personnel and financial matters, the geographical seat of the institution does not play any role in this regard. Although the accreditation of the institution is carried out through NAKVIS in accordance with the criteria laid down by NAKVIS, the Ministry has no effect on the number or geographical distribution of higher education institutions. Performing studies in dislocated units is a decision of a particular higher education institution, such as if the Ljubljana University of Maribor opened or not opened a university in Murski Sobota. Such a unit should also be credited to NAKVIS and then entered into the development of higher education institutions. And when these conditions are met, there is also a study to be signed. The implementation of the study programme at any location, the selection of locations for study programmes is within the autonomous competence of higher education institutions and we like to talk about this autonomy and respect it. Therefore, according to the autonomy of higher education institutions, the Ministry must not and cannot interfere with their implementation of programmes or with the place of study where these programmes are, but the Ministry can share budgetary resources between public and concessional institutions. This also includes their dislocated units if, of course, regular studies are conducted there. But new concessions – this will certainly be of interest to Mrs Potrata – we are not planning for now. We believe that this would not be appropriate before a thorough analysis of the existing concessions and given the economic situation. But I agree with something else. If students, but if these are really students in a particular region, feel discriminated against, it's certainly a sign that something is wrong. This is a sign that a higher education market or interest in higher education studies is open in some area. At a time when colleges, universities are fighting for entry, surely this information represents something interesting that studies also offer in these environments.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mag. Ambrozich, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u276	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. I'm partly satisfied with him, but partly not, especially since we obviously didn't get along. Otherwise I understand your geographical distribution of Slovenia. I have offered you, based on the data and the analyses that have been made, a distribution that is publicly available on this issue. This suggests that there are four existing higher education institutions, both in one part and in the other, and, as it is said, this one is in Murska Sobota, which is unfortunately known for all these sad statistics; therefore, it is not funded from the state budget, if I put it simplistically. At the same time, it is my thinking, as well as the thinking of those who advocate that this situation should change, so that the country, with the funding of unemployed professions, in such areas, can significantly contribute to the greater development of the region, reduce unemployment and, consequently, facilitate access to studies of young people or students, in this case from Pomurska, Prekmurje region, from which many of them can neither travel to Ljubljana nor to other centres where this possibility exists. Just so much for backing up my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u277	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Your Honor! If you would point out in your question which school, which programme proposal, which institution, which potential dean you are interested in, would have more information on where the establishment of this school has stopped. Whether this is a problem of accreditation of this study to the NAKVIS – we know that with the speed of operation of the NAKVIS we are not satisfied that no one is fully satisfied with this – or just the issue of concession. With regard to them, I must tell you again that the current financial situation forces us to consider how and which schools with concessions to maintain and, I will say, we must be very careful, restrictive in any award of new concessions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u279	Mag. Katarina Hočevar will ask the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport Dr Žigi Turku a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u280	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the ministers and to the Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! A new school year has begun for our primary and high school students. At the same time, some of our young countries are only predicting for a few days that they are writing their own reforms and measures to get out of the economic and financial crisis. In those days, when the eyes are most often focused on the financial, economic and labour ministers, I refer to you, the distinguished minister, also responsible for education, because I believe that knowledge is the key value that can lead us out of the crisis. For we know that countries that are economically more successful than us, in their vision, competitive futures highlight just the right knowledge. What is your position on the value of breakthrough knowledge? What connection do you see between the labour market, the economy and education? Those who face real challenges every day on the school floor and try to overcome them with great effort and love for their profession find that knowledge loses its value, that the desire for it in our schoolchildren is getting smaller. Is it possible that they have too heavy a school bag, screaming textbooks, or too complex a workbook? All too many teachers find that expectations of us parents are often unrealistic. Teachers, on the other hand, are involved in the rules of the Ministry, us as parents, and must also deal with a number of new content and a large amount of red tape. Thus, the student — the one who is supposed to be pushing our better future tomorrow — is increasingly moving away from the situation, the grades are becoming unrealistic, and the number of excellence is increasing. We have also written in the Coalition Treaty that we will achieve greater autonomy of the teacher and his burden of administrative obstacles. I'm curious, Mr. Secretary: How far are you from achieving this goal, or what are your short - term goals in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u281	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u282	Thank you very much for your question. In fact, it is refreshing that I will be able to tell you some of the plans that we have in relation to education in the substantive field, because most of the time, at least the media, we are spending on spheres, as well as on people, parents, explaining that it is not money, that it is not a special attack by this government on education, but that we are adapting funding to capabilities. You asked me how I judged the importance of knowledge. This question would allow me to refer to the Minister of Finance. In fact, what is the importance of knowledge compared to — I don't know — highways, or economic development, or social, health, military, police and so on. Of course, it's not just the Ministry of Education that decides about this. However, I agree that until knowledge in this country has the right price, all good words about it are in vain. And knowledge will have a price when it's worth knowing something in the company where a person is employed, because companies will look for well-educated, highly educated people, and that's when we move our entire economy in the direction of products with higher value, with their own brands, with built-in creativity, design, etc. However, if I now go specifically to your questions regarding the commitments made under the coalition agreement, how we plan them, their realization, in particular concerning the teacher's autonomy, etc. These measures are eight, nine. The first is an editorial of the curriculum. We intend to simplify them substantially, shorten them, limit them to 5 pages, so that they contain the main and basic emphasis. This curriculum will be accompanied by a teacher’s manual for an object where it will even have a range of options, how and in what way to achieve these goals. Then we will correct the Rules of Evaluation – I am talking about plans, none of which is yet certain, all of which is also subject to an expert debate – we will amend the Rules on Evaluation, which we will simplify, allow for a formative evaluation again. Some of us remember that when we went to school, we got pluses and minuses, and then it came out of it. In the meantime, one profession — in narration — found that this might be too stressful for children to know for a few days in advance that someone would give them a plus or minus on something. Within a few months, an e-school purse project will be prepared to initially check the use of electronic textbooks. A series of science textbooks have already been prepared by the Institute of Education, and I have seen them for the last time, and I am positively surprised at the quality of these materials. However, there will also be calls for publishers, so that there will also be competition on the market between providers of e-building. In support of education, there will be a new institution for the development of education that will take care of three things: developing a curriculum, linking the labour market and education and lifelong education. The founding act is in preparation. An effective means for teachers to be more involved in teaching and not in administration is also developed and increasingly implemented by the electronic editor system, the electronic diary, the electronic work plan. In high school, too, we're going to pass on the curriculum. We will introduce a number of measures to promote vocational education, which appears to be a major disadvantage, a hole in our labour market, namely that enrolment is mainly in vocational education and that admission to high school and technical education is maintained. In cooperation with the Chamber of Commerce, we will also have to do more here to promote professions. We are also preparing a measure that will allow teachers to leave their place of work in school for a few years, perhaps to temporarily go to the position of adviser in the education development institution, perhaps to some college for an assistant, to be educated for an object or something like that. In short, everything in the capacity of our schools to start producing or creating young people with the four, five qualities they need today: communication, collaboration, creativity, critical thinking and [[...]] [[Sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u283	Here you go, supplement the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u284	Thank you, Minister, for that rather encouraging answer. Maybe we could get back to the autonomy of teachers. In your Rules on the Rights and Duties of Students in Primary School, the rights of the student are defined in 17 indents, duties in 11. For example, the Rules on the Verification and Evaluation of the Knowledge and Advancement of Students in Primary School set out, inter alia, an objection to the assessment, an objection to the decision on repetition. I want to know: In your opinion, does this increase the autonomy of teachers? Are you planning any changes in these segments that I mentioned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u285	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u286	I will certainly have to consult with a professional in this area, which has been very widespread in recent years, I would say student autonomy, the rights of students, and the rights of parents. I don't think it's so much about the teacher's autonomy here, but you're asking about the teacher's authority. My personal opinion is that it wouldn't hurt to have this authority a little bit higher in schools. On my first day of school, I also stressed that it seems totally unacceptable for me to have parents go to school with lawyers, that teachers are afraid to ask themselves if they are afraid to make bad grades. Also, what you mentioned earlier about the questions where we received our assessments that almost half of all children are excellent, and so on. It's just not going anywhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič will ask the Minister of Infrastructure and Space Mr Zvonk Černač a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u288	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! A recent major balloon accident in Barja has also shown a number of shortcomings in the work of the relatively new Civil Aviation Agency, established in 2010. It was evident that the Agency was not prepared for such a crisis situation and that its follow-up was relatively unrelated and contradictory. Following the complications of balloon commercial flight permits a few days ago, sailing paratroopers and dragons remained without permission, of course in the course of air transport for payment and or rental. All of this does not have much to do with ballooning, but in view of the recent accident, to some extent, I understand the security concerns of civil aviation. But to act on principle first bans, and then gradually search for certain solutions, is a measure that this industry certainly does not deserve. From a commercial and tourist point of view it is particularly in Posoča, as well as in other hilly areas of Slovenia, this is one of the branches of the big increase. Many camps and other accommodation facilities live out of this, catering activities, and these services are also offered by many tourist agencies. In short, it has again turned out that we did not know how to respond from a rational point of view, but that we are solving a particular problem in the most inappropriate way; we are also robbing many of the wrong and nothing to do for part of their earnings. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, Have you taken control of the work of the Civil Aviation Agency and what measures follow in this area? Will you pay so much attention to this problem that in the meantime, when new rules are established in the field of civil aviation, there will be no economic damage in one of the more promising tourism industries in Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u289	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u290	Thank you very much for that question. It's about control first. On 18 June, I was briefed by the Anti-Corruption Commission on certain alleged irregularities, now the former Director of the Civil Aviation Agency. On the basis of this report, I issued a decision on 5 July ordering me to exercise control over the work of this agency. This surveillance took place sometime in mid-August and was completed in August. The supervision was carried out by a special committee of the Ministry, which identified several serious shortcomings, notably in the employment area of the Public Aviation Agency and in the area of continuous monitoring and enforcement of compliance controls, the implementation of rules in certain aviation areas. On the basis of the findings of this Commission, and in particular on the basis of the conclusions of the Commission on the prevention of corruption, the Council of the Public Aviation Agency adopted a decision at its meeting last Wednesday on early discharge or recall of the then Director of the Agency. Last week, on Thursday, the government dismissed the former Director of the Civil Aviation Agency until the appointment of the Director. After the tendering procedure was carried out, the Acting Director was appointed. However, I must say that, at the Ministry, we believe that the excessive sharpness of measures aimed only at a general ban on activities cannot improve the state of security. The Agency last week, led by the previous Director, has prohibited the transport of parachutes for payment or rental and air transport by means of sailplanes and sail dragons for payment or rental, although in our opinion it could have implemented appropriate solutions without such prohibition. For this reason, the Public Agency for Civil Aviation of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular in this case the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space will, as soon as possible, assess that within the time limit of this week, prepare the necessary measures in terms of the issue of operational and technical requirements that will allow the issuance of relevant documents for the performance of these activities and, on the other hand, ensure an adequate level of safety in the implementation of these activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Completing the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u292	Thank you for your answer. All those who are interested in it are also likely pleased. And to be able to confirm my question – a new principle, first the ban, then the gradual search for certain solutions to cause economic damage through this measure, is probably already clear that it is practical to encourage the conduct of such an activity in black and is a matter that should not be afforded. Only major administrative obstacles, more expensive licences and licences are announced, once there are no indications that improvements will take place in the direction of greater security. All of this on behalf of security. Whether it is one way or another, we simply use the ballooning disaster in Barja to warm the lives of those who experience it. It even sounds like our citizens are looking beyond our borders for such services. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u293	Ms Maja Dimitrovski will ask the Minister of Economic Development and Technology a question. Happy Zerjava.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u294	Thank you for your word. Mr Minister, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia took note at the 18th regular meeting on 14 June 2012, of the information that the Development Strategy for Slovenia 2014-2020 was being prepared and appointed on the basis of Article 11 of the Regulation on Development Planning Documents and Procedures for the preparation of the State Budget proposal by a large working group within the competent Ministry of Economic Development. The Regulation states in Article 12 that the involvement of civil society and the professional public is envisaged and therefore interested parties can take the initiative to cooperate. I am aware that the competent ministry has already received a proposal for cooperation, but it has refused this cooperation. The European Commission requires Member States to involve non-governmental organisations, social partners and the economy in the preparation of country-specific strategic and implementation documents, as it is understandable that they are co-formed by all those who have experience and know the needs of each area. For that reason, Mr. Minister, I ask: Why did you not, on a proposal from the public concerned, specifically NGOs and social partners, appoint their representatives to the working group? I want to know: Do you think that in preparing the country's strategic documents you need representatives of the economy, NGOs and social partners or when you will appoint them? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u296	Thank you very much for that question. Slovenia has been very active in programming for the future period, the starting point is the principle of comprehensive development planning, covering horizontal coordination between ministries, vertical coordination between national and regional development and coordination with external experts, i.e. all stakeholders. At the moment, we are preparing the following documents: the 2014-2020 Development Strategy, the National Development Priority Programme for Investment, the Partnership Agreement and the Operational Programme and, of course, regional development in programmes prepared by individual regions. In order to coordinate the preparation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia, a supervisory group was appointed, as you said, in which the members of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Cabinet of the President of the Government and Umar, this is the so-called Operational Group for the Coordination of Preparations and is an inter-ministerial unit. We have set up development groups on a case-by-case basis to coordinate between the departments and prepare implementing documents: macroeconomic competitiveness, the labour market and knowledge, infrastructure, management of natural resources, social and health and basic functions of the country. Programming takes place in several stages. The group currently identifies challenges and problems in its areas, development potentials, objectives, investment areas and resources. On the basis of existing analysis and evaluation strategies, the Ministry has also developed a basic strategic development framework, which is a substantive framework for discussion of group priorities. In the next phase, the groups will receive a strategic framework, a public financial framework, and will also identify their investment priorities to the extent possible. In addition to cross-cutting coordination, we have systematically engaged in the involvement of all stakeholders in the preparation of documents. In the first step, we invited all stakeholders, so in early September 2012 around 100 stakeholders, social partners, NGOs, institutes, chambers, offices and so on were invited to send their proposals using the same method as the working groups. To this end, a specific online questionnaire has been developed at the Ministry, and you can find it where they can communicate their thoughts, their proposals, their comments and so on. In June we have already opened a special e-mail address srs.mgrt@gov.si, at which each interested person can submit their opinions, suggestions and comments. The call was also published on the website of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. We will examine all the proposals and make sense of them already in the preparation of the first draft documents, if they make sense. In the next steps, we will re-coordinate with stakeholders on draft documents on round tables, dedicated tables and so on. For example, with regard to individual regions of such a round table, the preparation segment of the regional development programmes is already under way. In order to coordinate national and regional development, we organised regional consultations at this stage, as I said. Given the need to involve all stakeholders in the preparation, we did not set up specific working groups, but we want to carry out direct coordination with stakeholders. We are currently negotiating with the social partners and within existing bodies in the Economic and Social Council and in the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia. So it does not hold this information and the position you have set out that we have not included all interested public in the preparation of these strategic documents. We're on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han is next – a question for the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u298	Once again a good evening, Mr. Honourable Minister Zerjav! In recent years we have seen increasing interference with the protection of the rights of creators of Slovenian music and film works, which are heading towards reducing these. By doing so, we prevent the creative development of Slovenian production and deny the possibility of implementation if you also want the Slovenian language. Moreover, the Slovenian language is increasingly left to market law, which is not right. We leave it to those markets where the legality of large publications applies, in particular those that represent English-speaking creators. It is worrying that today only those who broadcast it are serving at the expense of a rich repertoire of Slovenian works, such as radio and television houses and cable operators who take advantage of music and film works, while its creators live. I am talking about the authors of Slovenian music and also film production. In irregular relationships, only non-profit cultural societies, firefighters, innkeepers, hairdressers and even more could be listed. The amount to be paid to collective organisations is inappropriate. In other words, total payments to collective organisations are too high and disproportionate activities. The revenue from the activities carried out is not based on the public performance of musical works but on other activities. It is also unusual that cultural, firefighting and catering and hairdressing establishments receive multiple positions, while the amount on them varies depending on the collective organisation it has issued. However, it is a matter of concern, Minister, that this should not go personally to you as the current minister, that the competent ministry, including the Office of Intellectual Property, always allows for the growth of limited anomalies. Instead of serving the public's interests, it shows that the Ministry and the Office are primarily working for the benefit of large publishing houses and foreign corporations. Dear Minister, Mr. Zerjav, I'm sure we share the same views in some way, so I ask you: By what measures will the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, in the announced amendments to the Copyright and Related Rights Act, provide the right conditions for the development of a creative, stimulating environment primarily for the authors of Slovenian music, allowing users a more user-friendly environment for public performance? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u299	Thank you for asking. Minister Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u300	Thank you very much for this question, and I think you have identified virtually all the problems or all the anomalies, as you yourself have mentioned, as regards governance, so to speak, with the copyright and related rights that appear in Slovenia. She's probably just another one you haven't mentioned. This is also why we have practically already prepared a new proposal at the Ministry for the Copyright and Related Rights Act, which, by the way, is also part of the third package of economic stimulus packages. We have included in the preparation of these amendments experience so far, some solutions to foreign legislation, as far as possible the proposals put forward by the interested public within the public debate which was the subject of the law. The solutions proposed will, of course, lead to a more efficient and more transparent functioning of collective organisations. In recent times, you are well aware that there have been many comments, particularly in this segment of the transparent functioning of collective organisations. These will charge and collect authors' fees in a transparent and efficient manner. Authorised fees, however, will be distributed transparently and in accordance with predetermined and all comprehensible rules of division among those holders of rights whose works have actually been used. Compulsory collective management through a collective organisation will be limited only to those cases where safeguards are used where necessary. Competition between collective organisations will be possible as several collective organisations will be able to exercise the same rights in the same type of part. These will, as a rule, manage rights on the basis of the author's or his legal successor's mandate, so it will be only rarely possible for the collective organisation to exercise its right without express authority, i.e. only on the basis of the Copyright and Related Rights Act. Rightholders will be able to choose which collective organisation will manage their rights. However, they may also choose to exercise their rights themselves. Users will also be able to decide with which collective organisation or rightholder they will conclude a contract. And, of course, I could list many of the changes that we want to bring about through this change of law. But what seems important to me is, of course, what you have put at the heart of your question as, I will not say a request, more than a desire to ensure some development of Slovenian music, to enable it to be the city it is going to be, especially in the case of an abnormal penetration of music coming from abroad, and to prevent, after all, within all these copyright and related rights, that I will not say the tycoon action of many who also operate within it. This is especially important to me. I myself was an amateur musician, and therefore I have a special attitude towards Slovenian music, which, in my opinion in our country, unfortunately, does not have the position I deserve. Perhaps in which countries north of us, some of our authors value substantially more than we value ourselves. I would like to take a step forward with this change of law in this area as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u302	Very briefly. Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. However, I must say that experience shows a little different. I'm skeptical of this competition that's already been. Why? Your ministry has also included in the third programme of measures to promote the economy amendments to the Copyright and Related Rights Act, which, as I said, would increase competition. Now I have to ask you: How will you be able to provide conditions for the author of Slovenian music more than ever? We know from publicly available information that the competition that has been established so far also spends two thirds of the funds it receives on the costs of its operation. If I'm more precise, the IPF facility, which was established and we know who's defending it, gives one ticket, and I have to tell you that it's 12 times as big as the one that SAZAS gives at one studio, and so on and so forth. In general, I would suggest that, together with all stakeholders, we make such a law that we will continue to listen to Slovenian music and that Slovenian music will be the one that will continue to guide us. That's why I'm skeptical about this competition. And I'd like to ask: What's your opinion on competition? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u304	Any competition generally brings a lower price. At least that's what it's supposed to be. And I have, on my own account, highlighted in particular the transparency of the operation of collective organisations, all of them. I'm not just talking about SAZAS, I'm not just talking about IPF, I'm talking about all the collective organisations. I would not like these organisations to be some closed institutions where it would be possible for dedicated persons to have a different treatment or some authors to have a different treatment than other authors. That seems particularly important to me. We have different authors. Some have much of their own works, some have much less. And within these divisional relations, the cakes collected under these copyrights, of course, need some transparent functioning of these institutions, so that the authors themselves will be satisfied with what they create and, of course, on the basis of this created one. I hope that competition will do its part and, of course, the basis must be what you have said yourself, that in some ways, in the context of the opportunities we have, we will protect Slovenian music. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u305	Thank you very much. The next one will ask the question of the Magi. Stanko Stepišnik to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u306	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A nice greeting to ministers, a nice greeting to two members and a member of the SD [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] three are, yes, two and one are three, a nice greeting to one member of the SLS, twelve members of the Positive Slovenia and two unrelated Members! But I can't say hello to SDS because there's nobody here. Yeah, she's the vice president, but no one's sitting here. Who's from the Citizen's List? I don't see any. Neither has DeSUS, nor has anyone since New Slovenia. Well, I took the time myself, but still, I'll be shorter. Dear Mr. Secretary! The trend in the growth of agricultural areas is very worrying today. At the same time from an economic point of view, this is an opportunity to reduce growth, maybe create new businesses, increase weak self-sustainment, create new jobs and contribute to the reduction of the unemployed, and contribute to economic growth or increase the social gross product. Self-sustainment in our country is insufficient and needs to be increased to a high average at European level. Unfavourable weather, climate change in us and in the world are causing food shortages and thus higher prices, more expensive lives, food insecurity and low national security. In Slovenia, self-supply with vegetables is about 37%, with wheat 49%, with cereals 69%, potatoes 63%, honey 74%, meat 85%, milk 116% and, say, apples 120%. Suma sumarum is self-sustainment below 50%. But we've heard of fish before that they're no more than 10%. The maximum deficit resulting from this is in vegetables, wheat and cereals. We import 900 million to billion euros of food annually, according to some media data, up to two thirds. In the family budget, food costs are increasing. Slovenia has 2 million hectares of area, of which 64% of forests, 507,000 agricultural land, 28 000 agricultural land in cultivation, which is problematic, and 170 thousand crops and gardens. For agricultural areas per capita, we reach a European average, and we are below the European average and below the national average of 0.08 hectares per capita, so that we can provide sufficient self-sustainment. Therefore, it is of great importance to reduce the growth of agricultural areas [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Then I'll keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u307	Thank you very much. Was it a question? Okay. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u308	The question was announced in advance in two sentences, but it was in the end, so I can start with my answer and I believe that Mr Stanko Stepišnik will also conclude his thinking. The information you mentioned holds, with the exception of average self-sustainment. According to those responsible by the Agricultural Institute and when we calculate these weights, somewhere between 65 % and 68 % is the assessment that is official to the experts of the Agricultural Institute. However, this does not change into any data concerning vegetables, cereals and other articles. It is important to be aware that cattle and livestock parts are almost half, and in this part we are mostly well stocked according to the configuration of the terrain and tradition in our farming. As far as the area is concerned, the data suggests even a few more areas in the area of growth. If we add almost 26,000 hectares, the data is from 2011, a little less in 2002, much less in 2006, if we add to these hectares 18,000 categorised areas as trees and shrubs, which is also an agricultural area, we get to about 44,000 hectares of agricultural land, which are either growing or characterised as trees and shrubs. This is certainly a very great potential for Slovenian agriculture. Most of these areas are actually less suitable for farming, and there is also a whole range of lowland areas where such areas are growing. The reasons are often in an unfavourable natural situation, as I mentioned this hilly mountain area. The big problem, as we know, is the age structure of the owners of these lands and also fragmentation, small parcels and this own structure and also inadequate mechanism. As far as the measures taken by agricultural policy and in line with European agricultural policy are concerned, the answers in some way are, in my deep opinion, if there were no such measures, they would have been worse than we have today, because the so-called first pillar of the common agricultural policy is intended for those areas that are being processed, and to this end they go beyond EUR 140 million per year. Also in Slovenia, which is one of the more exposed countries, according to limited farming factors, there are also 40 million Euros in this second pillar for these OMDs, mountain-mountains. As far as other measures are concerned and they are recorded or are appendages to these measures in the amended Agricultural Lands Act, there is also a sub-legislation that owners, leasers must manage as a good host, otherwise this also means preventing agricultural land from growing; otherwise, there may also be punishment, deepening by agricultural inspection. And here I think there's some work to be done by the agricultural inspectors. More importantly, in the Agricultural Lands Act, this extension is also for partial financing of agricultural policy, including the removal of the crop from the payment of the change in the destination of agricultural land. As a result of a reduced payment, and also given the need to return some of these funds on the basis of this novel, we hope that in the coming year we will also be able to start stimulating measures to promote the reduction of this growth. The other important thing is that in the preparation of new rural development programmes, a lot of attention is also devoted to this, and serious consideration is given to the fact that most of these land is grassland, grassland, in order to re-establish the action of dairy cows and primary cows, in addition to ruminants. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] returned to these agricultural areas, and in this way continued the healing processes by active farming. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u310	In fact, these 47,000 hectares are a great potential, and earlier I had in mind more in terms of economic terms, let's say that some companies with concessions or whatever set up to start cleaning up this healing in terms of converting wood into briquettes or any other burning element or other construction element that is much in use today, wood mass for new construction because it is isolation, and so on. According to some data, if self-sustainment were to be delivered to 90% in Slovenia, the Circus could employ 20 to 40 thousand people per structure on different foods, on different countries categorised. This is once again one potential for the unemployed, to increase economic growth, to help economic growth and, of course, to increase social gross product. What's most important is that self-sustainment would increase. Surely, though, this land, or agricultural areas, that are cultivated, is not all that is suitable for crops to grow and so forth. However, it would probably be some kind of replacement of agricultural pastures and so on. And here you've already answered in part. If you have any such concrete measures as to link it to the forest, for example. There are also a lot of dissatisfied people with that Article 2 of the Forest Act, as you know, when the cultivated agricultural area is transported as a forest. This is also probably some information that the forest is growing, but in fact it is this cultivated agricultural area, which is characterized as [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u311	Thank you very much. This was more of a position than a complementary question. Minister, if you have anything else to add here, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u312	In these figures, Dr. Osterac's actual finding in one study is that 1% of the increase in self-sustainment in this part is thousands of jobs. By paying attention to the thousands of jobs we are talking about, not just in agriculture, but in the entire food processing industry, from logistics to packaging and the like. There is certainly a whole range of reserves in the Slovenian agricultural area. In this part, we have also tried to come up with a strategy for the development of agriculture or in sectoral policies that are an implementing part of this document, to actually go from industry to industry and find out what needs to be done to improve self-sustainment. He was well-represented this year. I think it is right that such projects would happen as much as possible, so that they could also be presented in public as successfully as this project was with the production of tomatoes in Prekmurje with biothermal water, where we know that there are 2 million kilograms of tomatoes on four hectares of this area or 40, 50 jobs. The greening strategy has shown that five, six such biothermal-heating bottles with these technologies have already covered up to 100 % of the key four industries in agriculture and export opportunities. So you have to be very careful in this part and go from industry to industry and see where the potentials are. You used to play with meat numbers. That number 85 is when we make and balance the pig's supply as much as the beef that's higher. If a person were to draw conclusions very quickly, he would say that there is room in the pighouse, but probably according to the natural conditions, there is more space on the grass than on the production of the corn we need for the pig. We have to go, so I mentioned it earlier, to the livestock sector, which is also a traditional sector and can also be an additional income on the farm. We know that this potential is also in the forest, and in this ratio agricultural land: the forest is actually coming to change recently. In this part, I can say that even now that we are coordinating municipal spatial plans, there are now packages of these spatial plans, where it is no longer impossible what was a few years ago so that the replacement area would also be with the deforestation of 60% and beyond what we have come with the forest. Even in foresters, this mentality has changed and the forest is shrinking. We truly share this view that this percentage is on a level where there is no need for the forest to continue to grow. Because in the numbers we used to play with about 44,000 hectares in 2002 and 2012, 2012 grew significantly more than it was in 2002.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music. Question for the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Radovan Žerjava and Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u314	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, my question will not be new. I will ask you what many have been asking for 21 years now whether in Slovenia we will once and for all become aware of the geostrategic and geopolitical positions we have: favourable climate, climate conditions and natural heritage, cultural heritage and everything that we could actually use to implement the strategy for the development of Slovenian tourism, which we also called the Partnership for the Sustainable Development of Tourism 2012-2016. In the past, all the strategies so far have been an aggregate or a set of wishes that have not been realized in 21 years. The mission of the strategy to the Ministry of the Economy is that Slovenian tourism creates an important part of the economic and socio-cultural well-being of income and employment and contributes significantly to Slovenia's international reputation. Based on intensive marketing of tourism products with an internationally recognised brand and high added value. Forecast or vision for 2016 In 2016, tourism in Slovenia will be fully based on sustainable development and as a very successful economic sector of the national economy will make a key contribution to the social well-being and reputation of our country in the world. We must be aware that tourism on a global scale is the most growing economic sector, which we are obviously not aware of in Slovenia, given the excellent geostrategic position and favourable climate conditions, as I mentioned in the introductions. Tourism growth in Slovenia is lagging behind European growth. The problem is the lack of awareness of the development potential offered by tourism. In strict economic conditions, the development of Slovenian tourism can be an important generator and builder of Slovenian development. I therefore ask the Minister for Economy, Economic Development and Technology and the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment: What are concrete government measures in creating the conditions for the development of tourism? What are concrete government measures in linking tourism with agriculture and vice versa? How do you assess the current inter-resort cooperation? What else needs to be changed or complemented in order to make cooperation at the level of individual directorates even better, in an operational sense, of course?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Minister Žerjav will be the first to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u316	Thank you very much, Mr Member, for this question as well. Although I have a lot of statistics produced here, I believe that I do not particularly need to present these statistics to you because you know them very well. Now I will not talk about the general measures we have put in place in the Government, but I will identify myself up to the three projects we are taking at this moment. An important document is the strategy for the development of Slovenian tourism 2012-2016. The aim we have pursued is to create an effective development model of Slovenian tourism for a defined period, which will in the most optimal way valorize all key attributes and potentials of Slovenian tourism. At the final stage, the document, according to my assessment, represents a good, coordinated document of all stakeholders in the country's tourism interests: the public, private and civil sectors. It can be a good basis for stimulating the development of Slovenian tourism and ensuring those objectives that we have, of course, defined through this strategy. The amendment of the Act on the Promotion of the Development of Tourism is prepared or practically prepared. It is also part of the third package to promote the economy, which will further strengthen an enabling business environment for the development of tourism. This, in my opinion, will also have a positive impact on its development, of course. The third thing that seems important to me is the merger of the Japti, WTO and TIA implementing institutions. I estimate that by bringing these three agencies together we will reach one critical mass of people, and, above all, to, I will say, the real agencies that will be able to implement these promotional activities, in the event that we are talking about tourism, tourism, as well as, of course, some other areas, significantly better and more effectively, especially cheaper than it has been so far. I would touch on the use of European funds. In recent times, I am speaking a few years ago, about €650 million has been spent on tourism infrastructure. This created a thousand 252 new jobs, more than 6,000 600 new beds. At this point, there are also some projects that take place on the basis of European funds. I hope that the applicants will successfully implement them so that we can actually draw on and make useful use of these projects. As regards cross-cutting cooperation, the development strategy recognises the importance of this effective coordination and cooperation at ministerial level in providing a favourable business environment. This is one of three strategic measures within the competition tourism strategy. And I can say, at least as far as the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment is concerned, that cooperation is good, and I believe that we will carry out other important projects in this good cooperation in the future. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment has certain resources, including for the development of tourism as part of rural development measures, and I believe that the Minister of Agriculture will add something to this. Important for natural parks, concrete measures at the moment. Strunjan Landscape Park Information Centre – the project is confirmed, worth €428,000. Bohinjka information centre in confirmation on the management body, the value of the project slightly over EUR million. The facility in the Škocjan Bay Nature Reserve in preparation or coordination with the beneficiary, i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture, the value of the project is two hundred. In short, just some of these important projects. The question of putting a golf course on the beach remains open. MGRT supports the tourism economy's efforts and hopes that local communities will, of course, be able to provide substitute land [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Do you have a request for a supplement?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u318	Sure. What about the Secretary of State or the time has run out? [[...]] All right, I'll keep asking. Mr Minister, protected and protected areas are usually left behind, at least practice has shown, healing, decaying, see the Jernej Canal, where oil, oil, gasoline in the water, in the sea and all of this is located in the landscape park. We say we have less sea in Slovenia, 42 kilometers when the tide is much less. And so, I'll say recklessly, we're behaving towards our environment. It would therefore be good to allow investment in content in landscape parks, which is not every capital of negative capital. It must be allowed to continue because obviously the country does not have enough money. One more thing, Minister, the visa system. See France, it is among the ten most visited destinations. They have 77 million arrivals of tourists because they are the only ones in Europe who have chosen to make visas just like that. Why shouldn't Slovenia? We must not give a visa unless all countries give us their consent. Be careful, the visa system is very important because many tourists, especially from Asian work, could come to Slovenia if they were friendly to me. Why did France, I'll say, overcome this exclusive, but we don't. We're always in the tracking category. I would very much like, Mr Minister, to be skipped from the category of trackers among those who also create trends. And if you'll allow me another question later, I hope to get an explanation from the Minister of Agriculture. Will you not allow me to do so, given that I do not know how much time Mr. Minister for the Economy has spent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Mr. Bokovic is also in charge of a complementary response.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u320	I'm going to try in part in the part where I was meant to do it in the first part. He mentioned participation in natural parks with approximately 5 million funds in joint projects. Otherwise, a beautiful and preserved landscape for this diversity is one of the key moments why tourists also choose to visit Slovenia. In the area of agriculture, much has been done in the field of tourism farms, complementary activities. There have been thousands of 283 projects co-financed here in recent years. Investment in diversification in non-agricultural activities was also seen in rural areas, where 102 projects are also aimed at catering and tourism. 11.3 million euros were allocated to these projects. Support for the establishment of a business peace is also one of the measures we run through the rural development programme, 445 of which are in the field of tourism 82. 11.5 million euros have been earmarked for this purpose. Renovation and development of villages – a sub-project that builds on infrastructure in the settlements themselves, including multi-purpose homes, where the centres for various tourist organisations, cultural organisations, societies, rural youth, rural women, and also usually those who invite and invite tourists to the country, outdoor museums and similar projects. Objective 323 – To preserve and improve cultural heritage, including in the context of cultural monuments that are preserved. These are two tenders that are currently in progress. At the first, another will be repeated, which is said to be the development of the village, even at the beginning of the following year. The leader of the scheme, 33 leaders of the scheme, where there is a great deal of cooperation among people in rural areas in these groups. To a large extent, investments in tourist infrastructure, marking tables, learning paths, hiking trails, thematic, cycling, riding paths, then tourist points, education of tourist guides and the like. So it's a whole series of measures in this area. It is also in the area of the fisheries fund for maritime work. There are two projects, one "fishports, landing and shelter" measure, and on the other hand the leader of the "fisher action group" scheme, which is also a scheme. Approximately 3 million euro is a project designed to develop tourism in the coast with the theme of agriculture, fisheries. Thus, there is a whole range of measures currently being implemented in the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič, would you like to give an initiative for a general debate? Since, according to the Rules of Procedure, you have not had the opportunity to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u322	I'm running out of time. Don't take my seconds, please. I need this time, because I want a respected Vice-President to hold a public debate in accordance with Article 246, second paragraph, and I justify this by the fact that tourism is a very important economic sector and that under strict economic conditions the development of Slovenian tourism can be an important generator and builder of Slovenia's economic development. It is very important because the law on the promotion of tourism is also in preparation, so that experts and I may also address and agree on all the details needed to actually develop tourism in Slovenia, that we may even consider – as we know the overall environmental impact assessment – in order to also introduce an impact assessment on tourism in areas where tourism is mainly carried out as an economic sector, specifically the Coast. Imagine psychologically putting a gas terminal in our bay, how it works, but they can meet all the environmental requirements, but the psyche works and they will actually drive us away tourists. Therefore, it may now be in this law, Minister, if it is possible to also enter into the law on the promotion of tourism development, that these areas require an assessment of the impact on tourism, any such activity that may endanger and drive away our tourist, on which we are so dependent. We have no oil, but we have an excellent climate, we have a very beautiful landscape, we have a natural heritage, we have a culture of heritage, we are friendly to visitors, we are kind to people in Slovenia, and why not give them a chance, why not give us a chance to prove ourselves and earn more with our kindness and with everything we have. We literally sit, stand on wealth, and we're poor. That's not acceptable, and I won't accept it. So give us the opportunity to have a public debate in Parliament, to talk about it, to invite experts, because there are quite a few in Slovenia, and as I said, we will move from a follower country to a category of those who create trends because we are more capable than ever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u323	Thank you very much for your initiative, which we will need to narrow down slightly, which is that the National Assembly at its next meeting can only discuss the Minister's response to your question, not the general debate you have proposed. However, we will also take this proposal into account and decide on this on Wednesday in the context of the vote. Now it's time for the question of mag. Borut Ambrožič, who will raise the question of the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u324	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to the ministers present and other fellow Members of Parliament and colleagues! Allow me to begin by summarizing some of the paragraphs of the call from the Rector and representatives of the higher education community to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. These representatives state that public universities form an important foundation of Slovenian statehood, provide generally accessible education and bring about scientific, technological and cultural development. They are also aware, as they state, that certain legal changes due to the crisis situation that has arisen on a daily basis are necessary, but in their view it is essential to achieve them in agreement with the higher education partners and in a way that will take into account the long-term strategic orientations of higher education. As early as 2009, countries in the European Union, the OECD and rapidly growing Asian countries have been working intensively on how to make higher education and research institutions the best in the world by additional funding for quality and integration. In Slovenia, however, it seems that we are on the opposite path. In view of the fact that we like to compare ourselves with the German-speaking area, it is possible to mention here, in conjunction with my question, the strategy of Germany, where German Chancellor Angela Merkel agreed in the government strategy in 2009 to provide €18 billion to finance three programmes, education, research and innovation by 2012. The Higher Education Agreement programme even provides for the financing of an additional 275,000 admissions posts at universities. In 2005, the MMC RTV Slovenia portal reported the bankruptcy of one of Japan's universities. It is true that in this case it was a private university that went bankrupt due to the lack of enrolled students, but according to representatives of five public universities in Slovenia, including the Emuni University, there is nothing more pink about austerity measures. I therefore ask the question to the Minister of State: Does the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport have a scenario in place for the bankruptcy of individual universities due to the envisaged austerity measures? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u325	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u326	Thank you so much for asking. A short answer to whether we have prepared scenarios for bankruptcy is: no, we don't. Not at first because we believe that 8.7% of the reduction in funding for universities and higher education institutions cannot be the reason for bankruptcy. Nor is it because they show public institutions in the field of higher education in previous years the surplus of revenue over expenditure which is greater than this reduction. Similarly, the State on all boards of all public institutions consistently requires that they prepare their business plans and take into account the new reality, taking into account the need to end it. This applies to public institutions in the fields of science, education, higher education, culture and so on. As I have already said in one of the previous answers, we are also trying to reach universities, both with knowledge, in the form of a workshop on Brdo last Friday, where foreign experts have explained how in other countries, where funding for higher education has also been reduced, helped to overcome this crisis, rather than creating a formal legal framework that would be needed to help manage this financial crisis more easily and to manage higher education institutions in their management. Allow me to touch at the end a little bit more on what you said about your question when you were talking about how they were solving things in this or that OECD country, here in Europe and Asia. As far as association is concerned, let us look at statistics that talk about how many universities there are per million people, and we will see that this number is very low in Slovenia. However, given the size of universities or the fact that one university is actually two thirds of the entire university space, we would see that this space is quite different from what is in other countries. I have a map of countries in my office that have been squandering funds for higher education. There are also countries on this map that have not yet done so or will not have to do so, but there are also many countries that have gone into much greater contractions than Slovenia has had to do so far. And such comparisons with Germany, Austria and so on, you know, we cannot collect garlic from this European map and, in one case, when Germany suits us, choose Germany, in another case when Denmark suits us, collect Denmark, in the third case when North Korea suits us, choose North Korea. Germany has a flexible labour market, Germany has different pension legislation from Slovenia, much later retire, Germany is a much more friendly environment, under all the criteria for "doing business". Some other country, such as Denmark, Sweden, Finland, one of your colleagues, perhaps former colleagues, would mark them as some neoliberal countries because they have a relatively open business environment. We do not have all of this in Slovenia, but we have a national interest and therefore a less efficient economy, which is also able to pay less wages. These salaries come from this economy, and unfortunately we also have to adjust the higher education space, you want to, you don't want to adapt to these conditions. So, we don't have a bankruptcy scenario at the Ministry, bankruptcy is not an option.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u327	Thank you very much. I see you'd like a refill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u328	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary-General. I hope you didn't understand my question as a cynicism. In fact, I was interested, but in this meanwhile, when I put my question to the procedure last week, I had already received a partial answer at other levels because as a layman in this area I was really interested in whether there are some solutions at this level as well as local legislation regarding the bankruptcy of the municipality, as in at least one case, as I know, has already happened in Slovenia. In that case, a coerced manager takes over the administration of the congregation. In due time, as I said, I got an "off the record" explained on one of the universities. I was told that now, because of the measures already taken by the Government or the Ministry, or will take them, as far as I understand, the progress is somehow such that each dean will somehow commit to doing a positive job. If he fails to do so, he shall inform the rector and then, in a similar manner, designate a coerced manager who then attempts to rescue the college in question by rigorous cutting before the financial collapse. That's how I was finally seen. In this context, I expected your answer, perhaps, but I fully agree with you that some comparisons are appropriate and others are not. Nevertheless, it is good to know how things work beyond our borders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u329	Good. Minister, I have not heard the supplementary question or the request for a supplement was, however, given that a fellow Member had the floor, so do you. Wait a minute, yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u330	The way in which universities are organised internally in this crisis, the ministry has no influence, nor can it have autonomy. But we do have some information, and I would like to commend some of the rectors who have been very committed to these problems rationally, both and in particular, in a way that will ensure that their students enjoy the same quality of study as before.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u331	Thank you very much. Next one's a mag. Majda Potrat, who will also question the Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr. Žigi Turku.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u332	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Dr. Giga Turk, I will now ask you about the publication on Twitter. You have read your great pleasure by reducing the RTV contribution on January 1st. And with what you thought was a great achievement, others are asked whether awareness of the importance of the public service of the largest cultural public service in Slovenia can be expressed with satisfaction, however, when it comes to the great risk of the collapse of the public service. And that's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: With what measures will the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport ensure that the Public Institute of Radiotelevision of Slovenia, with a reduced RTV contribution, is able to fulfil the legal scope of public service and to carry out the mission of the public institution of special cultural and national importance in the future? You also got this in writing, so you won't say you don't know what I'm going to ask you. However, this question would be strengthened by the fact that a number of measures can be taken to establish that the volume of public funds is decreasing. It is true, however, that the Ministry is also obliged, under the RTV Act, to provide a stable source of funding from the RTV budget and market activities. Although the ban on the conclusion of the copyrighted fee contracts was slightly eased by the adoption of the ZUJF, it affected Cyprus TV in particular and reached out to the program or the cancellation of the show. The News of the Media Law has reduced the budget by 200 000 euros due to the demand for free broadcasting of programmes of particular importance. The new Digital Broadcasting Act amounted to a million €200,000 lost to RTV due to a change of law. Then 9.2 million projected losses due to the reduction of the RTV contribution. If you add that up, then you will see what amount of reduced resources we can get, and we have had an emergency session and a disaster forecast on RTV in the National Assembly already due to 4 million failures from RTV. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u333	Here you go, Minister, the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u334	Thank you so much for asking. Allow me to start by protesting against the unrealistic claim you made in the introduction to this issue. You said I was very pleased to hear that the RTV contribution would go down. I invite you to show me, prove, explain, what brings great satisfaction. As far as I can recall, in the driest possible form, I have communicated the news after the government's meeting on the decision taken by the Government in this regard. However, I will also answer the rest of your question. I am convinced that the existing law on RTV Slovenia and the method of financing this public institution provide all the conditions that the public institution can continue to fulfil the statutory scope of the public service and the mission of the public institution of special cultural and national importance. The Government's decision to reduce the RTV contribution by 10%, which will also be implemented in the law on budget implementation, was adopted by the Government at the right time so that this public institution can prepare new programming platforms, of course one that will not distort the scope of the public service and the business and mission of the public institution. Next year, the RTV contribution will decrease, today's 12.75 euros per month to 11.48 euros or at an annual level from 153 to 137 euros. If we multiply this by 600,000 debtors, as much as RTV has to contribute in Slovenia, this will mean about 9 million less for RTV Slovenia, but in the total amount of revenue it is less than 10%. With 10% of the cuts they have fought, they have to fight, and all other public institutions in the field of culture have managed to fight, many of them even with significantly greater reductions. This contribution is still higher than paid in neighbouring Italy, where RTV is a contribution of EUR 112. In the UK, in a country with significantly greater purchasing power, the contribution to the BBC is €195 per year, but attention, the BBC does not produce exactly any advertisements. In Croatia there is a fee for RTV 80 kuna, which is slightly less than €11 per month. In these new circumstances, the government expects RTV to give priority to home programmes in the fields of culture, art, science, education. For other programmes, especially when it comes to the transfer of certain international competitions, the purchase of licences, series, sequels and the like, which are not essential for Slovenian culture, their usefulness should be assessed primarily by calculating the financial revenue from advertising for these programmes. The government also expects RTV Slovenia to give priority to the programme for minorities, disabled people and others who do not have space in other commercial media, and not to implement projects that do not bring any added value, I am talking about projects and not programmes. For some of these development projects, the Programme Council itself is meeting 3. Seven. 2012 found that the management and the supervisory board did not follow the criteria for the use of development funds. The government also expects the management of RTV Slovenia to fully recover more than €1.7 million of overpaid salaries in its budget in the coming year. If we add to this the savings that RTV Slovenia also allows ZUJF, then this reduction is suddenly not so much. Even if the Institute of RTV Slovenia removes any of the errors detected by the Court of Auditors, they will be able to compensate for this reduction. However, the claim made by the management to reduce the contribution by 10% may lead to a 30% reduction, but of course it does not hold serious judgment. According to this logic, if the RTV contribution was reduced by 30%, then RTV Slovenia would not have implemented the programme at all, or could have concluded vice versa, when a slightly less than 10% of the RTV subscription was increased a year ago, we could have concluded that we received 30% more of the programme and no one remembers it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u335	Thank you. A request for a supplement?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u336	The urgency with which you gave this happy news to the public led me to conclude that you were probably pleased when you were able to report it. It is also an appeal from the RTV Workers' Council, which refers to the fact that no European country has seen a reduction in the RTV contribution in recent years. I'm not talking about height, the situation is different. Institutional and editorial independence and sustainability of funded public RTV are also key to the development of European society and democracy. Now I'm not going to argue or wonder if maybe my colleagues at SDS are watching Studio City, not in the hall, but the programming world is the one that sets the programming content. But what you were talking about, that he concluded at his session of the Programme Council in July, is in his jurisdiction and I am not dealing with it. However, I take it that those who are most at risk are made sure that payments are justified, of which there are 27,000. And it eventually got into the system. A million 700s and wages, it would appear to be talking about when this deficit occurred. I also think that the law enforcement authorities, which will be in the appropriate places, will act appropriately when irregularities are to be pursued. This cannot be the reason why funds are being cut. I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: Do you also intend to reduce the budgetary resources that the budget must provide under the law as you have contributed? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u337	Thank you very much. Here's your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u338	As I said, RTV Slovenia costs Slovenian taxpayers more than any other living culture combined. So the budget of the former Ministry of Culture, if we subtract museums and so-called dead culture, cultural heritage, is smaller than just RTV Slovenia. All the orchestras, all the theaters, all the operas together less than that. You asked me if other things in the budget had been given such cuts. They were actually given even bigger cuts, unfortunately, like RTV Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u339	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mrs. Potter?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u340	Sure. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I expect the National Assembly to hold a debate on the reply of Minister Žiga Turk. He did not answer me with a concrete question about what the budget will reduce in terms of the budgetary obligations that the budget must provide under the RTV Act for the implementation of the public service. Citizens and citizens are providing their share of the public service funding and it would be appropriate to reaffirm in the debate on the Minister's response what RTV is actually a public service. I can't live with the answer that this is the biggest service. It is necessary to ask whether, by doing what it has, it is possible to fulfil its public mission in a qualitative manner. It's not just information shows. It's not just those shows that some of us are watching more and that's why we'd miss them if we missed them. How much of the public service will be affected by the reduced resources? I don't know, it's predicted, and those who decide it say it's going to be one-third of the show. Who will, has been given a special task by the Programme Council to prepare a plan for this. But it is true that we are dealing with RTV with a whole range of things that we should not be dealing with at all. For example, the Committee on Education, Culture, Science, Sport and Youth adopts a decision ordering the Government to call off the Supervisory Board. And according to the law and the president of this committee he even wrote the law, the National Assembly doesn't even have that power, because the Supervisory Board only reports how the RTV business went. Not to mention any other things that might suggest that we also want to interfere with the programming scheme. But the public service is just what it is that gives us everything we expect from the public service. Independent, quality, timely information to get from it also from its own production is that part of the production that other market-oriented media media providers do not bring. I suggest you take a really good look at this and argue a little bit on your answer, Minister, what does it all belong to in the public service, and ask yourself if I want to talk about public RTV or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u341	Thank you for your proposal, which we will decide on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Mrs Tamara Vont will ask the Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u342	Thank you very much. It is just that there are many areas under your ministry and that is why you always have the highest number of questions. For decades now, the Director of the Central National Archives Institute of the Republic of Slovenia must be an expert in archiving. At least so far it has worked so well that it must be a person with a professional archival exam, who must also have extensive experience and references in the field of work in archives or working with archival material. Since you have repeatedly stressed, before the performance of your post, as Minister, that you would like to support the expertise or expertise in all areas of your ministry, surprising the appointment of the Director of the National Archives of Mr Jožet Dežman, who does not have an expert exam in archiving, or any reference in this field, not a single working day in the field of archivist. At the same time, he should present to you, on behalf of the archive, a new system that would no longer require an expert examination for the Director after the new one. You supported her, as far as I can tell. And at the same time, of course, it is difficult to avoid the logical conclusion that this is a systematization which, according to me, is someone, in this case, I apologize, I cannot conclude otherwise than that it is Mr Dežman. Is the most important political relevance to the management of this sensitive and extremely important institution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u343	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u344	Thank you very much. If I paraphrase your question a little bit, I can't come to a different conclusion than it is problematic in this case, in fact, the name of the potential director. Otherwise, it should also be noted that, as proposed, we are not reviving the systemisation, but are actually expanding the range of potential candidates for this function. Previously, this function was limited only to people with exams and is now available to experts from all other fields, including people who have proven to be difficult archive users in the past as researchers. In fact, Mr Dežman’s claim that he would not have had experience with the archives, rejecting his biography or bibliography, you can go look at it in SICRIS, with a number of basic studies that are the product of the work in the archive, even after he edited the archives, that they were even useful for research. As a member of the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the implementation of the law on the correction of wrongs, he dealt specifically with the issues of adequate accessibility of this research archive. The archive of the Republic of Slovenia has not recorded any brilliant management in recent years. Investment, development and legislative projects have been launched and not implemented, and they have all come under great strains between major plans and almost zero implementation. Among the plans is the new construction in the former army in Roška and the e-archive, and even the adoption of the law with the support of the leadership of the archive of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. archival experts, who were rejected by voters at the referendum by about 70% of the votes cast. In short, the previous way in which the archive is managed and the previous government's approach to this issue has also been rejected by citizens. The fact that the archivist may be an automatic good director or that the archival exam is necessary is confirmed by the union's consent to withdraw the archival exam as a condition for the appointment of the director of the archive of the Republic of Slovenia. The union, which in the past under the leadership of Dr Matič, has never given a positive opinion on changing the systematisation, is of the opinion that an expert examination from the archiving activity is not a condition for the post of Director, but is a condition for the archivists working in the archives and for the Deputy Director, who is a professional function. In addition, the Archive of the Republic of Slovenia is a heterogeneous institution in which not only archivists operate, so it is appropriate that, as with other national cultural institutions, the call for a director is so open that it allows for the acceptance of such a person who has both the expertise and the ability of management. With regard to Mr Dežman's expertise, I can add that, when Mr Dežman took over the management of the Museum of Recent History in 2005, the experts wrote a protest public statement. After the end of his term of office, we can say that the Museum of Recent History of Slovenia has achieved excellent results under his leadership. Of course, the question of Mr Dežman's political suitability can always be raised and we must remember that he withdrew from active policy as a member of the LDS in 1998.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u345	Thank you very much. I'll get you a refill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u346	Thank you very much. So after all you've said, you still haven't been able to deny what I asked you. Perhaps then it is best that the professional exams simply be abolished and become the director of really someone who is an intensive user of the archive and then also manages matters. But it is interesting, for example, because on the other hand the inspector must have an archival exam and at least 10 years of work experience in this area. And one more thing is interesting, as your colleague Gorenak said, is that only a career officer can be a police director-general. But with the archives, things are obviously different. It is interesting, for example, also a letter from Director Dežman, that the competent staff of the Archive may not review and carry out anonymisations before using the material. So, according to the news, we no longer have the anonymisation of very sensitive personal data for the victims of SDV. And if we're talking about the fact that the SDV was getting data on its victims intentionally, by violating human rights, by illegal methods, by listening in the bedrooms, that I'm not saying that it's really about sensitive personal data, such as sexual specificities, health problems, partners, jumping over fences and the like, and last year the Owl got a vast contingent of this archive material of SDV and also introduced anonymisation for it. At least for those data that really relate to these very sensitive things. Now it is possible that this material is available to everyone and is available to everyone. I don't know. That's not an expert argument for me. I don't know, do you think that's appropriate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u347	Mrs. Vonta, was that your additional question or request for clarification? I think we're already in such late hours that we don't keep breaking the rules of procedure again and again. It's perfectly clear. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u348	I'm not breaking the rules. I wasn't the third time. Please! I asked if that seemed appropriate, and I did not violate the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u349	Mrs. Vonta, you can relax a little. I would just like to say to the end what I started, that you did not act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please be more careful in the following cases. However, I am now asking the Minister to complete his first implementation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u350	We'll clear this up. I haven't heard from her for the third time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u351	Mrs. Vonta, you don't have a word! I give the floor to the Minister for Complementary Reasons. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u352	I'm afraid I have to answer that. This debate, Mrs. Vonta, about the anonymization of the archive, we have already had this debate in this room. So, you've actually repeated the question you asked me two or three sessions ago. And then I told you that not everyone has access to this data, that anyone who wants access to this data will sign a statement or stick to some of the rules that apply in science, in history and in the archives. Of course, there is no need for an archival exam in order for these rules to be respected. But also about the essence of this question of yours, I'm going to repeat to you what I told you back then. Yeah, they were victims, victims of the secret police. And a very bad, very wrong message would be a very wrong message if these victims were twice, first when they were investigated by the secret police, and secondly, that they become victims now, namely, that they become an excuse for making the material that talks about theirs, I will say, useful, about the secret police, about the Udba, not accessible to the researchers who are researching these things. In the face of this anonymisation, there is a relatively very large amount of work that slows down significantly not to say prevents access to this material. I think that we can trust our researchers so much that we don't work from people who were victims of the secret police, victims twice, first when the slaves were being persecuted, and now as a reminder that we don't get data on what these slaves were doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u353	Thank you very much. Would you like, Mrs. Vonta, a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u354	So, as far as this debate is concerned, I don't really remember having it in this form. I'm sorry. In view of everything, I would like to request a general hearing under Article 246 under the second paragraph. No, I do not trust, especially under the conditions as they now appear, and especially under such an agenda as it is now. I don't believe that these victims would really be the victim twice, really not. And I don't know what that data would be, what research benefit this data could be for. I don't understand that. If you look at how these archives of the former secret service in East Germany are handled, you will not reach material in East Germany for two years. Is that right? You get it with us right now, and anyone can get it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u355	Mrs. Vontae, can you stick to the motion of procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u356	I was following procedure, of course, he's got two minutes. Don't I? I also mentioned at the outset that I am asking for a general debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u357	We understand your proposal and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u358	Why can't I use my time? I really don't understand you, Madam Vice President, I don't understand what the problem is. Light me up, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u359	Excuse me, I've seen you like you want to sit down and finish your question. Are you done?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u360	I think we're gonna need some glasses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u361	We will discuss your proposal in the context of the vote on Wednesday 26 September. Now it's a matter for Dr. Žigo Turk. He'll be stopped by Mr. Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u362	Thank you very much. Your Honor! It is probably not the case that the current Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport receives so many questions because he is also very unknown. Although I have heard for the first time, for the first time in my life, from his mouth, that he is aware of the importance of education and that it is bad for him because he has so little resources to spend or because he has to cut down certain programs and take means of education. Perhaps you feel differently, Mr. Minister, but only in public do this differently, so do you. Prior to the changes they wanted to introduce in the field of education, your predecessors appointed expert commissions and took into account scientific research and the results of these, and in particular introduced the changes gradually and followed the national programme. For more than two years, the National Commission of Experts for the preparation of the White Paper has been preparing new guidelines and changes in the educational work. It took into account the comments of independent experts and practitioners, teachers, administrators. What about you? Today I have heard that you have an expert committee, that you want to make some changes, that these will be professionally justified, but at the same time you have told what you will do. That means you've demented your profession because you've already said what changes you want. For several years, on the basis of professional justifications and on the basis of needs, public institutions have been established and built up, such as the Planica Institute, the Andragog Centre, the Slovenian School Museum, the Centre for Vocational Education, the Pedagogical Institute, the Institute for Education of the Republic of Slovenia and so on. Just an example, the Pedagogical Institute was established as a scientific research institute for education and education. For almost 50 years, it has been a central research facility that provides scientific research in the field of education. The Pedagogical Institute also represents an independent external evaluation and reflection of the educational work or system in our country. The tasks of the Pedagogical Institute shall not be covered by tasks in other institutions. The merger of the Pedagogical Institute into a joint institution would mean the abolition of this institution and would result in long-term and irreparable damage in the field of research, education and education in our country. The Institute for Education has an important advisory role, before which it had a supervisory function, but then it turned into an advisory function. Today you have also found out what it was like, or a time ago, to say that you have found his work to be of quality and importance. That's why I'm asking you: On what basis did you take a decision to abolish or merge public institutions? What will be the financial impact? What is the new working group for the modernisation of education and education [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u363	Thank you for asking. Mr. Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u364	Thank you for asking. In fact, we are monitoring what the professional public is saying about our education. We read the White Book, we read the Grey Book, and there's another book. When I answered questions on education plans a little earlier, I stressed that all these ideas were still the subject of discussion with the professional public. Also on the question of whether teachers should have more autonomy or less, I said that, in fact, the Minister should hardly have an opinion, but should consult the expert. I responded as a citizen and also as a parent of a child who had already given quite a few educations through. I would also like to point out that this almost mockery, which appears in the media, is that we combine the Planica Institute with the Pedagogical Institute, but not that. But it's two things so different that it would be absurd, but maybe that's why it's happening so many times. Indeed, we have set up a working group at the Ministry to modernise education and education. This is the consultative body of the Minister. The objectives of this group are to draw up an opinion on the concepts and actions of the Ministry in the development of the role of education and education, to prepare some professional basis for the further development of education and education, to cooperate with working groups, services and public institutions in the field of education, to participate in professional discussions on the further development of the role and education, to prepare some reports for the Ministry. In the work of the government, you will often find that ministers choose a few people around them who may not be directly involved or also have any formal bodies, any formal institutions to be able to consult more widely. With regard to your second part of the question, this is the integration of public institutions in the field of education, however, it should be noted in the introduction that by the early 1990s all the tasks in support of education were successfully carried out by the Institute for Education and Sport. By the end of the 1990s, several different institutions had emerged from it, creating a new Centre for Vocational Education, School of Directors, State Examination Centre, from the Sports Institute Planica, Andragoški center. In fact, the Institute of Education has remained undernourished, excommunicated, and in some areas the curriculum does not cover even 30%. We have done financial analysis, human resources analysis, task analysis, and all of this points to a large doubling of many and also to the incomplete functioning of institutions. The task, such as vocational education, is not only about secondary education and the economy, but it goes much deeper, in the study of primary school subjects and vocational counselling in primary school. The problem of the education deficit of children in primary school not only extends to primary school, but also to the area of adults, their parents. Therefore, problems need to be addressed in an integrated and complementary manner. So what we want is, in fact, one or two strong support bodies, which the Ministry will be able to rely on in modernising the school space as well as in monitoring or ensuring quality in this space, from this multitude of institutions that perform very similar functions, even on websites as its mission. Whether to separate between scientific and professional work is still a somewhat open question, but nevertheless, the Pisa Institute is carrying out international comparisons in the Pisa system, in the TIMSS system, but all of this remains at the level, as it would say, of study, has no direct impact, has no responsibility to take corrective action or to take corrective action by schools so that the achievements of Slovenia or Slovenian children in this area are further improved.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u365	Thank you very much. I'll get you a refill. Here you go, Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u366	Thank you very much. I'm just gonna ask: Can we learn about the results of these studies, or analyses? I'm glad you said, and what you said, you're looking at the problem in an integrated and complementary way. I am also pleased that you will decide, on the basis of expert analyses, what mergers or terminations or unifications or perhaps divisions of tasks are envisaged for these institutions. This is exactly what we always and constantly remind you that many times you decide too quickly, without listening to the professional public and without what someone tells you or advises you not to take these matters into account. If you could just give me the names of the members of the commission, or if you don't know them now, I'd ask you if you could send it to me or somehow publish it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u367	Thank you very much. A complement to the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u368	Thank you very much. The names of this working group will certainly be forwarded to you if they are not published on the website. However, I wonder on the basis of what you accused me, in your first intervention, of quickly deciding that we are making major changes, that we are making reckless moves, except for the changes in funding and the movement of the beginning of instruction for a few minutes, no specific measures have been taken in the field of education. But it is true that every little thing is accepted with the greatest possible opposition. And this merger of institutions has been the subject of discussion, questions sent, media articles for several months now, and nothing has happened in this regard. They're still all, these five, six institutions are independent. All this time, as I would say, we're thinking, we're talking to stakeholders, we're meeting with directors and employees from these institutions, so it's very hard for you to tell us that we're doing something fast and we're doing it recklessly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u369	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u370	On the basis of Article 246 and paragraph 2, I would like to request that a public debate be held in the National Assembly on that reply. I will just add, the Higher Education Act has only been attended by two-day debates or two-day public debates. At an extraordinary meeting you were not present, but there was an esteemed director of the Directorate, who also slowed down in the meantime, so that his attitude towards us who were there was extremely inappropriate. In addition, the Italian Self-Governmental National Community, as well as the Hungarian Self-Governmental Community, opposes the abolition or association of the educational institution. They point out that this merger is not in accordance with Article 44 of the Constitution, which ensures that laws, other regulations and general acts relating to the exercise in the Constitution of certain rights and the situation of exclusively nationalities cannot be adopted without the consent of representatives of nationalities. Look, we're talking about consensus, which means you probably have a good purpose, but you're not cooperating with the community, you're not cooperating with the rectors, and you're not cooperating with the dean, and so on. That's your problem. I therefore propose and justify the need for a public debate on the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u371	Thank you for your proposal. We will discuss this or vote earlier in the context of the votes on your proposal. Mrs Alenka Pavlič has a question for the Minister of Infrastructure and the premises of Mr Zvonk Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u372	Mr. Zvonko Blackach, Minister of Transport! 21. Seven. – a number of vehicles in the caravan tunnel. At the longest stop, the Austrian-led column was 14 km long. In the opposite direction, a maximum of 8 km. 4. 8. – in front of the tunnel Karavanka v Slovenija 11 km stop. 19. 8. – Caravanca tunnel closed because of the accident, there was a crash of vehicles. The tunnel of Karavanka is thus closed in both directions, and there are also long delays. 19. 9. - a kilometer stop at the Karavanka tunnel. On the Goran highway, there was a longer stop in the direction of Austria, ahead of the Hrušica connection, due to a roadblock in the Karavanka tunnel. 20. 9. – due to the collision of several convoys in front of the tunnel of Karavanka. There was an accident on the tail of a column of vehicles. Traffic is blocked, kilometers are coming in. 11. 9. – in front of the toll station Log v Ljubljana 7 kilometers stop. On the coastal highway in front of the toll station Log v Ljubljana traffic takes place only one lane and there was a 7km stop just before Vrhnika, reports the Traffic Information Centre for State Roads. As you may have heard, during the summer months when most of the vehicles were on the roads came from the closure of the Karavanka tunnel and the demolition of the toll station to longer congestions and accidents, which fortunately did not claim the victim. In these months, I have been approached by a number of motorists, who have shaken their anger over the closure of our main link with Western Europe. In addition to the enormously high prices of derivatives that undermine all records, motorists must wait several hours to cross the Karavanka tunnel. Why did we allow Austria to perform repairs in the months when the largest number of vehicles was on our roads? Half-hour prisons, which will last until 20 December, have a strong impact on all those who drive daily to and from Austria. After the talks I had had, I learned that reconstruction was not so urgent and that the Austrians wanted to force the construction of the second caravan tunnel as soon as possible. Why did you not prevent and oppose half-priced prisons that have a strong impact on motorists because they are already in a difficult position because of high fuel prices? I want to know: How will you prevent such blackmail by neighbouring Austria in the future? When can we expect the construction of the second tunnel tube of Karavanka? As I read in the Finance Journal on Saturday, there is money in the European Investment Bank for thoroughly prepared infrastructure projects more than enough, so we need willpower and projects. How will you organise toll stations to be disrupted in the future so that this will not be the case on Mondays when weekly migration is the biggest and therefore such prisons bring a lot of bad will and also the dangers of raids as it has been during the summer and luckily without victims?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u373	Thank you very much, Mrs. Alenka Pavlich. Before the Minister gets his word for an answer, I would just like to say how was your question raised to him: "What are your plans this year and next year for the reconstruction and construction of Slovenian road infrastructure?" You don't have a word, Mrs. Pavlich. And Mr. Secretary will try to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u374	In some ways, this issue is very broad and also covers the specific sub-questions raised. A few things have been exposed, some contradictory. On the one hand, it was said that the Republic of Austria was forcing the construction of another tube, and on the other hand, the question was how we had not already started building it. The truth is somewhere in between. The dilemma of how and how to ensure future safe traffic through the Karavanka tunnel was opened for a long time and the truth has to be said that the Republic of Austria was not most willing to participate in the construction of a new or other tunnel pipe. These dilemmas have been clarified this year so that activities are under way to allow the second tunnel of the Karavanka tunnel to be built by 2020 and 2023 at the latest. Procedures are under way on our side to draw up a State Spatial Plan for this purpose. There are some additional dilemmas around this, but I would not go into detail because I estimate that they will be resolved through the project preparation process itself. I must say that there were no congestions due to the removal of disruptive concrete islands at Log Road Station, which should have been removed in the summer of 2008. The proof of that was the beginning of the work. As you know, the works began on Sunday afternoon, the last day of the summer season, but the traffic took place on that part significantly more liquid than when the drivers were in a dilemma, how and how they should be classified from two into four lanes. What is currently disturbing and will have to be answered in a short period of time is the speed through these toll stations, which, in my personal opinion, is needlessly limited to 60 kilometres per hour, but I believe that the transport sector will be able to find an answer to this dilemma, too, which is the appropriate speed for detouring traffic after removal of the disrupting concrete islands. I have to say, as far as the Automobiles' complaints about the Karavanka tunnel are concerned, I was on their side a share of different opinions. The regime we have established on our part, which allows for an unhindered transition towards the Republic of Austria, has enabled them to carry out their activities in an appropriate manner. It is true, however, that in the coming year, as well as the transition from the Republic of Austria to the Republic of Slovenia, we will put transport on track as we have set up from the Republic of Slovenia to the Republic of Austria this year. Problems encountered in major maintenance works on motorways are unnecessary in one part. As a result, some time ago it was also agreed on how and how work would be carried out in the future. I believe that not all the disruptions will be resolved and not all congestions will be eliminated, but such congestions as we have witnessed in some cases this year, in one part because of the lack of signalling or signalling in an inappropriate way, such congestion will no longer take place in the future. The works that can be done during nighttime will be carried out in the future at night, with measures to be taken in the area of highway management, and we will ensure that traffic is as pervasive as possible in those parts where work is still going on and that, by the end of the year, it is expected that after removal of all concrete disrupting islands at the front toll stations, transport will finally run smoothly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u375	Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u376	Madam Vice-President, the caravan tunnel and toll stations, according to my behaviour, are still part of Slovenian road infrastructure, so I see no breach here. Now I would like to continue with my question. I quote the title of an article in the daily newspaper: "Corruption in the invitation to tender for the demolition of toll stations. As we know, motorways are owned by the Company for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. The invitation to tender for the operator of the conversion of the toll station Log should therefore be published by Dars and not by your ministry, which did not have any legal basis for this at all," said Dnevnik, adding that they had not been able to explain at the Ministry in June on which legal basis they published public contracts. Six bids arrived and prices ranged between 537 thousand 836 and 812 thousand 434 euros. The most expensive offer is the Gorenje Construction Company from Kranj, writes Dnevnik. How much tax money have you spent in these difficult times when you intend to forgive everything in order and reduce wages, demolish and redecorate to toll stations? According to the information they're circulating, you're also going to sell highways to foreigners. If that's true, then why are we taking down toll stations with the taxpayer's money if we're selling the highways anyway? Then why don't we do it and pay for the aliens? Have you prepared an invitation to demolish the toll stations at the Ministry only so that you can choose your provider? Why didn't Dars do it? Can you claim that corruption has not occurred and that if any link to the contractor is confirmed, you will also withdraw from the ministerial position?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u377	Thank you very much for all your extensive additional questions, which should not be asked in the context of the rules of procedure. However, I am asking the Minister for an additional explanation of his reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u378	I can calm you down. My resignation will not be necessary, so you will be able to ask me other questions at the next meeting, because 99% of what you said is not true. After the previous administration of Darsa failed to provide the activities that I ordered under the law with an appropriate order, we issued a call at the Ministry because, as you yourself have found, the bids were too high – the lowest was about half a million euros to remove only one customs – of course we have stopped this call. In the meantime, a new administration was appointed at Dars, which in a relatively short time ensured the implementation of all the necessary activities by about 10 times the price offered at the invitation of the Ministry. Not to mention the price that was transferred on my arrival at the ministry by the previous administration, which would have resulted in a million and 500 thousand Euros being allocated for the removal of the Log Customs alone. In these cases, I suppose, if it was not already a corruption or corruption story, it was some background for people who were very well paid to work in the interests of the users of Slovenian motorways, and for people who should develop a highway network, they obviously acted in the opposite direction. This case has shown that, in a significantly smaller way, it is also possible to do a lot of work on infrastructure in a much more rational way. With regard to the international invitation to tender for the management of the Slovenian motorway network, the aim is to obtain, through this public international transparent procedure, the operator of the entire motorway network in the Republic of Slovenia, indirectly to strengthen Darsa’s role as the manager of the Slovenian motorways, subject to restructuring and carrying out the necessary organisational cleaning, restructuring and other working methods as we have seen in previous years and, on the other hand, to provide additional funds for the implementation of the missing or complementary motorway programme, in particular in the part of the third development axis in the north and south and in the part where there is no link with the Republic of Austria: between the border crossing of Gruškovje and Dražanci.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u379	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u380	In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like the debate to take place mainly because Minister Cernač speaks very well and very little of it does. I would remind him that I had already asked him at the May session about the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Austria that he would be able to agree with his Austrian colleague to send her a proposal on the best possible regulation of this issue, and he expressed the hope that an agreement would be reached where the interests of our economy would be satisfied. He also assured me when he answered the question of when the second pipe was expected to be built so that it was assumed that the national programme for the development of transport infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia would be ready by the middle of this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u381	Thank you very much for your initiative. Whether we will hold a debate on the Minister's response will be voted on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič has a question for the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. Andrea Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u382	Thank you very much. Say good-bye again in these night hours! I'm gonna be a little shorter this time. My question, however, relates to the return of social assistance in the event of the receipt of such assistance prior to the entry into force of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds. The fact is that the regulation of the return of aid from the provinces had already been regulated by the law on succession, but that right has not always been consistently respected, this possibility of return being effected. Even today, we are informed that these people covered by the previous law are not doing exactly the same and that there are differences between individual beneficiaries. That's why I want to know: Before implementing the new social legislation, have the competent authorities informed the specific recipients of monetary social assistance of the State's possible claims to the legacy of an individual or family receiving social assistance? As already stated, on the basis of the information provided, it is possible to conclude that recipients of financial social assistance may be in a different situation in view of the current practice of implementing legal provisions whereby the State may declare its claims to the succession of an individual. I want to know: Why is there a different interpretation of legislation regarding the return of financial social assistance? Will the Ministry issue any uniform instructions in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u383	Minister Visjak, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u384	Thank you very much for that question. The legal basis for the recovery of funds is Article 128 of the Succession Act, which provides that the inheritance of the property of the person receiving the aid in accordance with the social protection rules shall be limited to the amount of the value of the aid received. This restriction may be implemented by becoming part of the property of the procurator corresponding to the value of the aid received and the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia if the aid was financed from the budget, if it is from the municipal budget, and the ownership of the municipality. This provision has been in force since 1976. The new social legislation in this area has brought nothing completely new. There has also been no specific notification in this regard, but at any role in which an individual exercises rights from public funds, there is a statement to be signed by the applicant and from which it follows that he is aware of the limitation on the inheritance of the property of the person who has benefited from the aid in accordance with the social protection rules. Let me explain a little bit about the law of succession. Article 179 of the Succession Act provides for the duty of the parent to send the death certificate to the estate court within 30 days of the date of the death of the deceased, and Article 183 of the Heritage Act provides that if the parent or the court at the time of the death certificate finds that the deceased has received assistance in accordance with the social protection rules, he shall enter it in the death certificate and inform the competent authority of the Republic of Slovenia or the competent authority of the municipality in whose budget the aid was financed. Your Honor, if I may make it very simple. It follows from the foregoing that the various practices in the implementation of Article 128 of the Law on Succession could only have been caused by a wrong or incomplete execution by the authority responsible for the execution of the death certificate after the deceased recipient of the financial social assistance or the protective allowance and, consequently, the authority which gave it was not informed of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u385	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the next question. Mr Dragan Bosic will raise the question to the Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku, as well as the question for the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. Andrea Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u386	Hello again. Thank you for your word. Honorable both ministers, Mr Turk and Mr Vizjak. The starting point for my question is the report, namely the European Commission report on the work of the European Union in the field of youth, which has published a wide range of articles, including education and employment. On a similar subject, a consultation was held with President Danil Türk, a second consultation which was also attended by the Ministry of Labour, the family and another interested public, where further emphasis was placed on this issue, namely education and then the transition to the labour market. Both the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Mrs Patricia Chular, and the Director of the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia, talked about appropriate education, talked about the right choice of educational programmes, as well as the President of the Youth Council of Slovenia, Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker. I want to know how I ended up here with the question in one sentence: What is going on in this area with us or what activities are you planning in relation to this strategy of the European Union? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u387	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u388	Thank you very much. I will be in a bit of a breach of the rules of procedure, and I will answer Mr Kavtičnik, for he has also asked a number of questions in his third intervention. That's all I'm gonna get [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u389	Minister, we wouldn't be in violation of the rules of procedure, please, if you'd stick to the rules of procedure. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u390	If the debate on the Higher Education Law had lasted only two days, we would not be talking about it today. There's only so much about this problem. We just don't have the opportunity to always answer your questions, as I would say, of your third intervention, where you use the rules of procedure to ask some questions that are not answered. I would very much like to be able to answer everything. And we're still discussing it. As far as Slovenian youth policy is concerned, it has recently been highly vertical. In fact, only the European Youth Pact and the EU Council resolution, also mentioned by Mr Bosic, encouraged a more holistic youth policy and later gained a new impetus through the European Union Youth Strategy. With the National Youth Programme, which is also defined by the Youth Public Interest Act, Slovenia will in fact finally receive a holistic and cross-sectorally coordinated youth policy document. The national programme is the first such document in Slovenia. It is currently in the stage of public hearing coordinated by the Office of Youth, and the Director of this Office for Youth has also been at a consultation that you discussed just now. The parliamentary bench is expected to arrive before the end of the year. It puts youth independence at the heart of the problem and as one of the basic prerequisites for the self-employment of young people. This is a difficult problem across Europe, it is also becoming a problem in Slovenia, the first job of young people and the fastest possible entry into the labour force. It discusses the introduction of greater justice in the labour market, the promotion of young people to entrepreneurship, the competent equipment of young people, active citizenship and so on. Maybe so much to start with on my part.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u391	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u392	Thank you very much. Two important interventions would still be on this issue. The first is the fact that we have a relatively large structural imbalance between what young people offer the labour market and what the labour market offers them. There is also a general conclusion that the study time in Slovenia is too long and that young people, in particular because of lack of career orientation in the school system and as a result lack of information, decide on studies that do not allow them to work after completion. Further education is also a solution to unemployment, thereby prolonging certain structural imbalances. The issue is very complex and these European projects and programmes offer, applied to Slovenian specifics, some long-term strategic solutions to this problem. Now, in particular, with regard to the short-term measures by which we resolve this. These are mainly active employment policy programmes. To limit this year's innovation, this is the so-called First Challenge Action. The first challenge" is a very simple measure by which we subsidise the cost of employment of a young person under 30 years of age with the employer if he employs him for 15 months or more. This measure has received quite a few positive responses this year. A thousand 240 jobs or subsidies for young people are available in the programme. This is what we want to do to significantly increase youth employment and employment. For this purpose, some 8 to 9 million in this year's reserved money and we intend to double this programme due to good experience in the coming year, as far as finance is concerned and included.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u393	Thank you very much. Complementary response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u394	In this follow-up, I would like to refer to your answer, Mr Turk, one of the Members – because there was much to say, I forgot which one. But you mentioned in one of the substantive measures of the Institute for the Development of Education. One of the three items in this institution was also the labour market, namely, education and the labour market and, of course, a measure to promote vocational education. Is it possible to understand these two measures in the spirit of what I am asking you to say in regulating this job? And a question for your colleague. One thing may still remain inconsequential, traineeship, requires young people to be able to train because they are now disadvantaged. So, once again, the Institute for the Development of Education. Did I hear it right before because I was just doing some notes in the middle? I think it was an answer to my colleague Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u395	Thank you very much. You'll try to answer both ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u396	Thank you very much. In the hierarchy of implementation policy documents, and so on, I would certainly put this national youth programme first in this area, which, as I said, comes on your bench this year, and will set out policies or policy objectives in many areas that touch young people, both in education and in employment, family policy, housing policy, etc. This document is very extensive, very quality, based on a research titled Youth 2010 and sets these policies in line with this principle of fact-based policies on statistics. Some of these statistics were also contributed to by some in these institutions, which we discussed earlier. It's a record-based policy. This national youth programme will then have to be implemented by all authorities, all ministries, all professional institutions that then implement these policies.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u397	Thank you very much. Minister Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u398	Thank you very much. We will certainly study the idea of this internship. However, I would have two proposals here, which I think are more effective. We will not create any greater linkage with this traineeship between the job market and the demand. Of course, if we encourage employers by subsidising this first period, which we are doing through the first challenge, we are actually achieving similar effects, but they are called different. But a very important measure also seems to me to be one that is not on the youth side, and it is on the employer's side. This is that the development policy of all companies, as well as the development of new services, new products, is also a human resources policy. Timely investing in staff is, in my view, a very important medium-term project for all companies to have a well-educated and educated staff at the right time. That is why we have a series of scholarship schemes, as well as interventions, state financial intervention to help businesses and take over part of the costs associated with human resources scholarships. If this instrument had been better used, it would probably have been the professional and educational orientation of young people who would have been through an expected and offered job, closer to the needs of employers, and probably the problem of unemployment would have been slightly lower among young people.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u399	Thank you very much. Mr Darko Jazbec will ask the Minister for Defence, Mr Aleš Hojs.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u400	Thank you very much for your word and a nice greeting to all present! This is already a known case, or the problem of abolishing six information centres. We're talking 911, emergency call, distress call. In July, six centers were shut down after 10:00 p.m. In Positive Slovenia we then convened an emergency defence committee and there developed a lively debate that showed that there were actually several problems, confusions on the ground, and that the system was somehow unprepared to be implemented into practice. We have adopted several conclusions on this Committee. I will read the sixth conclusion: "We call on the Minister of Defence to prepare a proposal for the Government to set up an interdepartmental working commission, with the Commission taking into account all active stakeholders in this area, which will examine all professional aspects more widely and present a final price for both the current abolition of night shifts and the planned merger of regional information centres." My question is: How is this committee now? What's the composition? How does it work, or what are the results? On this committee, we have heard from the people working in these centres that there have actually been a lot of problems, an extended response time, an extended intervention time, in some cases a triage, a problem of not knowing the terrain, language barriers, double thefts, disruptions in the functioning of information and communication support, several of these problems have been listed, and at this time we also have some cases. I know more from the Styrian end. Janeževský vrh was replaced for Janžev vrh – 30 kilometers of difference, false alarm. A known example when a voluntary fire company was activated instead of divers. There was a burning house on the White Summit. The commander of the voluntary fire company was already at the scene of the fire, and only in the fourth attempt was he able to call after 22 p.m. the Communications Center. The Circus and the Circus were mixed up. In general, there are many of these problems. I hear from the paramedics most of the time that they don't detect these changes, but that they see them coming to the scene of a car accident several times before the firefighters, which has never happened before. Of course, with firefighters from a voluntary fire company, these problems are more pronounced. But it doesn't help if the wreckage is that big, if the lifeguard comes first, he has to wait for the fireman. The question is [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u401	Thank you very much. Minister Hoys, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u402	Thank you very much for the question, Mr. Jazbec. I would like to say again what I said on the committee several times: none of these regional centres have been abolished. You started with the thesis that the regional centres should be shut down or that six of these regional centres should be shut down. At six regional centres, their work has changed. So nocturnal change is no longer carried out in the regional centre, such as Trbovje or New Town, but at the competent regional centre, which is close by, it is said in Ljubljana, or in Maribor for Mursko Sobota, for example. As soon as this probationary period was introduced, all the centres that took over the night shift were informed of how the regional centres were working, where no night work was done. In cases where a greater deterioration of the weather has been announced by the Slovenian Environment Agency or when a natural disaster has been announced, in particular in the form of floods, larger rains and so on, the night shift of the regional centre is restored. This was done three times this summer: once for the Murska Sobota area due to forecast flooding of the Mura River and twice for three regional centres – Trbovlje, Novo mesto and Postojna – also for forecasting major rainfall. As far as the conclusions you're asking are concerned, he must say that I have three conclusions here before me. These conclusions were likely then merged into only three conclusions. I have obtained such conclusions from the National Assembly from the President of the Defence Committee, Mr Jurša. The third decision is exactly as you read it – mentioned as the third decision as not the sixth – and I must say that, given the invitation of this committee, I, as the Minister of Defence, went to the Government to my proposal to set up an interdepartmental working committee to review all centres operating in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare analyses of the operation of these centres and to prepare an optimisation of the operation of these centres. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall meet at its 30th meeting. On 8 this year, she appointed this Inter-Resort Working Group. Representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space shall participate in this Interdepartmental Working Commission. This is said to be the case with the representatives of those ministries that actually cover all the duty stations of different departments or ministries for which the committee has also been proposed by non-governmental organisations, such as the Medical Chamber, that such experts should be appointed to this working committee. Their mandate is to prepare a proposal, as I said, for analysis of the situation, for a future organisation with a deadline of 30. 11. So, until 30. 11. Such a proposal is also intended to be prepared by this Interdepartmental Working Commission. By the way, or in parallel, perhaps as the conclusion of the reply, I can also say this information that I had an official visit to the Italian Defence Minister in the previous week in the Republic of Italy. As part of this visit, I also looked at their information center or alarm centre in case of natural and other accidents. This centre, or the area, does not belong to the Ministry of Defence, but to the Ministry of the Interior. I can tell you that the Republic of Italy – you know how many inhabitants it has, you know how many times it is larger than Slovenia – 26 such centres. So if we pulled an analogy with the Republic of Slovenia, one centre would be sufficient in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u403	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u404	Absolutely. In this response, we have heard that the Commission has been set up, some results are still missing. Today, we have been taught by the government to stop comparing ourselves with other countries, because this cannot be compared. But I agree that it might be safer to do one center because now it's a problem, as it was done after 10:00, that it's a narrow door. The Maribor Center now covers almost one third of the country and if something more arises, the callers cannot come through the narrow door – now is not enough time to explain. You said that in some cases you could re-establish uninterrupted centres; but I don't know how you'd predict an earthquake to restore them in time. But I do have one of your interesting documents. The Ministry of Defence has been measuring the field test with a radio signal east of Ptuj and the deterioration has been observed since 1. 7. Further, since the centres were joined at night and the Ministry of Defence has agreed to the findings. The measurements confirm that in the north-east of Ptuj there is no satisfactory coverage for the use of hand-held radio stations. So, the document from your side – because it writes even more, but now is not the time to read – with measurements it will prove that part of the region is not covered with a signal, of these mergers. Now we keep this quiet, we use our cell phones, then we make excuses that now it's the cell phone if there's no signal. This simple answer is that some of the citizens in this area are more at risk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u405	However, I did not understand what this additional question would be, but still try to explain your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u406	Thank you very much. As you said, those records or those measurements were made there somewhere around 1. Seven. We have already discussed this issue on the Committee, and I have already told the Committee that the matter is expected to be settled by the end of August. I can tell you that this thing has settled. We've established new connections, i.e. ZARE 2, so also from the center, I don't know, Kopra also hears Postojna. So, this part is arranged. By the way, I can also say that the first evaluations of this Interdepartmental Working Commission are such that for some areas such as health care, it has been demonstrated that in the future there are only two such centres in Slovenia, not 13 such as the Protection and Rescue Authority, but we probably agree that health is still an important function of this system of protection and rescue. Finally, let me tell everyone what I have already said on the committee; it is obvious that some in the Ministry of Defence, especially those working in these regional centres, are extremely afraid of any control or control over their work. All this information that you mentioned earlier, in the previous question, is obviously the product of some of the information provided by employees, but rather than really helping to ensure that citizens are safe, designed to justify their existence or their subsequent existence, I would say to this many times unjustifiable presence in these centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u407	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u408	For this answer, I would really like to have a broader debate because the simple answer does not substantively satisfy the question why one part of the region is not yet satisfactorily covered by the signal but nothing is being done. This record even states, I stress that this is a document of the Ministry of Defence: "The plan is to build a new antenna drug, but in an undefined time period." The solution is offered in an unspecified period of time. I would like to ask for a broader discussion on this answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u409	Of course, we will take into account your proposal to hold a broader debate on the Minister's response at the next meeting. This will be decided in the context of Wednesday's vote, 26 September. Mrs Renata Brunskole has a question for Mr Zvonk Černač, Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment, and Mr Franz Bogovic, Minister for Agriculture and Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u410	Thank you very much. Hello again! This year, Mr Černač, you have ensured that both the Government and the National Assembly will present a concrete plan of action in connection with the placement of the third development axis, the southern part, into space. I also asked you twice about this with a question from the Member States. At that time, one of your responses referred to as the deadline for the adoption of the State Spatial Plan for the real part of the New City until the accession or tunnel of Malina October 2012 and for the second part from Malin to the border crossing of Metlik and the connection of Črnomelj-South April 2014. So I ask you, Mr. Minister for Infrastructure and Space: How far are you from the activities related to this project? When is the State Spatial Plan for Section 1 expected to be adopted? Of course, I agree, as I had the opportunity last week to hear your statements when you said that the inappropriate link represented a developmental problem. You were talking about the third development axis, which represents an important road link to the Pan-European corridor from Austria through Koroška to White Krajina and to Croatia. A major project such as the third development axis could reverse the economic stagnation curve. We know from the data that a 20% reduction in investments is detected this year. This is exactly the kind of big infrastructure projects that would lead this curve of decline, stagnation, in a different direction, in a trend of growth. This year, for example, it was, as far as I know, the largest infrastructure project in Slovenia, Fabiani bridge in Ljubljana. It is the congregations that make almost the only investments during the economic crisis. In addition to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, environmental and agricultural consensus is essential. So, Mr. Franci Bogovich, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, I ask you: When will the agreement be given to place the third development axis in space? Indeed, as I said before, in the Republic of Slovenia we see in such projects the possibility of promoting the economy and development.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u411	Thank you very much. Minister Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u412	Like I said, it's gonna happen. The State Spatial Plan or Regulation shall be coordinated between the Ministry of Finance and the Office of the Government of Law. It's supposed to be dealt with by the government in October. This is the part that relates to the route from joining the A2 motorway at the New Town to joining the Malina and in that part of the VAT relating to the implementation of the route from joining the Malina to the international border crossing of the Metlik and connecting the Črnomelj-South in April 2014. During this time, we are also counting on a decision on the acceptability of the implementation of the VAT on the environment on the route from the existing motorway to the accession of Malina. With regard to major infrastructure projects, however, I do not think Fabiani bridge is one of the major ones currently being implemented in the Republic of Slovenia. Last but not least, the National Assembly has repeatedly addressed an investment worth €300 million and is taking place in Šostanje, and I am talking about an investment in TES6. In the field of road infrastructure, projects worth more than half a billion euros are under way. Finally, projects or preparations for projects worth more than €10 million and some €100 million are also ongoing in the field of energy. In the area of infrastructure, therefore, the main obstacle to the implementation of larger infrastructure facilities is the provision of resources and activities are also going in this direction. On the one hand, cohesion funds from the following financial perspective are available, including from this, which is now being concluded, as well as from foreign investors, whom we wish to attract to the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u413	Thank you very much. Also Minister Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u414	As far as the agreement at this section is concerned, we are talking about the New City and the Malina connection, we can say that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space has forwarded the DNP proposal with a call for a decision on the acceptability of the environmental impact of the implementation of the plan 20. Seven. 2012. The DN proposal was drawn up on the basis of a decision of the Government, which decided that this DN should be prepared for the third development axis route on the eastern edge of the New City and the western bypass of the New City. Within the marriage period, positive opinions were given by all the departments except our Agriculture Directorate. The negative opinion of this Directorate is 24. 8. 2012 The Ministry of Infrastructure and Space replied by letter explaining in more detail the planned placement of the third development axis connections and the West New City Oblast. 17. 9. In 2012, the Directorate provided an explanation, forwarded a new opinion which concluded that, taking into account some additions, it was an optimisation of the performance of the circulars, the plan was acceptable. We expect that the VAT supplement will be in line with the Directorate's comments and this means that it is a positive decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u415	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u416	Thank you very much for both your answers. Thus, Minister Černač, I am monitoring you, so that you do not understand in any way about the projects, alone as a member of the Committee on Infrastructure and Space and the Committee on Finance, which are completed projects and I have not seen a major infrastructure project this year, where I would have had the opportunity to look at the completed project. That's why I mentioned Fabian bridge — nothing bad, but I got that feeling when I had a little follow-up on the completed projects this year. In connection with what you have mentioned and regarding funding and perspectives, I have also asked today when I asked about the programme of the Kolopje Minister of Mags. Radovan Žerjava was also the third development axis in Measure 6 and what you mentioned was related to certain cohesion funds. I have also been told several times in public about this, and I have seen here that this has obviously also been the opinion of the Government – which I am pleased – that the third development axis project should not be stopped and that the third development axis remains a strategic priority. However, on the other hand, there is a sort of evaluation, and I would also like to stress this by saying: "Politicians are talking, the country is losing its strategic position. Slovenia will have to make every effort to remain entangled in the European transport corridors." Here I want us to join together in these major projects, not only to the third axis, but also to the others. That's why I want your additional answer: Will the third development axis also be funded by Pocolp and certain investors in this southern part? I thank Minister Bogovic for the answer given, which is that the agricultural sector will not be the one to hinder this construction.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u417	Minister Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u418	Dear Mrs. Brunskole. You were a member of the Social Democrats, sitting on this side of Parliament from 2008 to 2011, when your then party colleague and party president Mr Pahor led the government. During that period, there have been many mistakings and many missed opportunities, including those talking about how we can lose, we can still lose which of the strategic advantages offered to us by the position in the area in which we are located. We're doing everything we can to keep this from happening. One major step in this direction will be taken at a time when all obstacles that are still on the way to the implementation of individual major infrastructure projects will also be removed and resources will be provided for the implementation of these projects. For the own resources and resources that we will derive from cohesion in the next financial perspective to carry out all that we need to do in the infrastructure field, both in the field of road and rail infrastructure, will not, of course, be sufficient. For this reason a decision has also been taken on this international tender for the management of the entire motorway network in the Republic of Slovenia, it is said that a concession has been granted for the management of this state motorway network, mainly for two reasons. On the one hand, for the sake of ensuring stability for the company which is to continue to operate this motorway network, and thus for some long-term security and prospects for employees. In some ways, we are also trying to influence society to become better, better organised, to start achieving better returns than it has achieved in the past and, on the other hand, to try to obtain additional resources through this process for the additional construction and development of the missing motorway network, particularly in the part of the third development axis in the north and south and in the part where there are still no links to the neighbouring Republic of Croatia. I am counting that if we hold on to these deadlines, which I mentioned earlier and which were not least addressed and adopted in the Government, then we will also in some way make up for those delays that have been produced in previous years and also ensure that the necessary infrastructure facilities are placed in space.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u419	Also a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u420	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In view of the above, Mr Minister, I hope that you have not been so affected when I repeated the word from the media regarding "policy" being said. There was also a statement by the Government that four years ago we should have started with a third development axis, when economic growth was and when it was resources. I believe you don't have time to read when I became a member of the party. For the first time, I am a member of the Party of Positive Slovenia, so I was not a member of the Social Democrats as a party, but I was a member of that party. But it is good to be precise and perhaps even a little bit squeamish. If you are accurate, then this is correct; but if it is a little incorrect, I think it is also right to tell you publicly. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that a public debate be held on the necessity of building a third development axis in the Republic of Slovenia, in relation to my issue, particularly with a view to promoting the economy. The Dolenjska capital has a parade horse of Slovenian exports, Krko and Revoz – there is still no bypass. This third development axis also has a bypass across these two important pillars of the economy. I therefore propose that a public debate be held. Anyway, thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u421	Thank you very much for the suggestion. As you know, there can be a debate on the Minister's response, which we will decide on Wednesday in the context of the vote. We continue with the question that the Magus has. Mr Leila Hercegovac, Minister of Health, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u422	Once again a nice greeting for me! Doctors are fleeing abroad. Honourable ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The causes are not only lowering wages and poorer material conditions, but number 1 – heavy burdens, lowering prices of health services, non-establishment of new standards; number 2 – inadequate healthcare and staffing. That's how mediocre comes into position, but the best feel bad or leave. This year, the Medical Chamber issued 73 certificates of good name for employment abroad, last year 46. The trend of doctors going abroad was increased by the implementation of the ZUJF – and this would be number 3 – due to the rule of bureaucracy. It took senior officials three months for the old administration to start work, now it takes six months for the additional consent of the Ministry and the Council of Institutions or Mayors. Then there are problems with administration and agreement to work in another institution, problems with contract making, problems with limiting the employment of doctors in accordance with the ZUJF despite the lack of doctors in the country. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: What measures will you take to stop doctors from going abroad and thereby correct the consequences of the Public Finance Balance Act, which brings enormous unnecessary administration, new burdens and prevents the professional development of medical personnel? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u423	Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u424	Thank you, Madam President of the Health Committee. First, one principled conclusion. We wanted to join the European Community and we also got the free movement of labour. Like other doctors in this area, they can come to us, and ours are going abroad. I think it is essential to speak too much after a good three-month implementation of the Public Finance Balance Act, which is the reason for leaving abroad. Thus I would not even continue to distribute and comment, because even some of the statements you made, such as the six-month wait for admission after specialization, of course they do not hold. I see the main reasons for my colleagues' going abroad in fact in limited possibilities of advancement, in limited availability of appropriate medical equipment – sometimes. They can no longer choose the free specialisation they want today, so I think that there can be economic reasons for those colleagues to look for their way elsewhere. On the other hand, I can no longer agree that we are in such a dire lack of doctors. Secondary and tertiary levels, except for some specialties, are medically comparable, well-completed as many others. A few more problems are at the primary level, where we prepare this network and find a shortage, depending on the headship that we place – well, these numbers are very different. With this in mind, there have been a lot of doctors in the last few years and there are obstacles here and these young colleagues, if we don't limit the admissions to medical school, will be able to stay out of work in the future. We are also preparing a proposal to significantly reduce the number of doctors when it was possible under the Professional Qualifications Act last year, an intervention law that facilitated the entry of doctors outside the European Community into Slovenia, mainly from the former Yugoslavia. During that time, these decisions on the recognition of professional qualifications were issued 69. In the first place, this will need to be regulated and health legislation will need to be regulated in the next. The fact is, sometimes it is difficult to admit that money in health is relatively less than elsewhere. I will not say that there is always an absolute lack because there is still a problem in better organisation of work, including in certain calls and procedures. But I can see that when we propose such rationalization, you do not agree with it. So in this case, we will always be spinning in a vicious circle, and it will be difficult to find a good solution. It is likely that, above all, the departure of doctors will continue during this period; I suppose so. By amending legislation, with different working conditions, different options will be possible in a few years' time. At this point, I just can't see a very large possibility, but it will make sense to limit the invitation to medical schools. From 2010 to 2011, there were 329 medical students and if we continue to do so, then we will pay expensive training for our colleagues abroad. Believe that, like us, we make it easier for some doctors, as we have done with this law on professional qualifications, there are also some other countries that invite our esteemed doctors abroad. Sometimes it's hard to resist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u425	Thank you very much. It's a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u426	The complementary question is the same as the first one, because we are concerned that the situation is deteriorating in health care. There is a mobbing between and above doctors, especially in the hospital environment, and this brings great dissatisfaction to doctors who are quite burdened, wanting to withdraw into a better regulated environment and suitable working atmosphere. Dear Minister Gantar! At the Ministry of Health, there is indeed bureaucracy for specialists to start specialization; for specialists after completion of specialisation, the inability to conclude contracts with parts – I mean concessionaires at the primary level who, under the current legislation, cannot legally conclude contracts that provide 24 hours of health care equivalent to preventive programmes and programmes for the elimination of waiting periods. I would like to point out that this money is in the system and the directors can be charged with illegal use. What are you gonna do to stop this? We both know because we've been in healthcare for years, that it doesn't hold what you said, that there's no shortage of doctors. We found ourselves at previous meetings on the basis of my questions: 290 in the family, 160 in the pediatrics, 72 in the age of 60. When we open the primary level, you'll be surprised at the state of affairs at the primary level. So, again, the question: What are you going to do to fix your health problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u427	Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u428	Thank you. It must be a late hour for you not to listen to me. I said there was a shortage of doctors at the primary level. So I think there's enough of them on the secondary and tertiary levels. As far as the mobile is concerned, I'd like to ask you if you have accurate information to provide them to us, because I don't have this data to leave the Ministry for my mobile. You obviously have better information. Once again: I think the doctors are enough in this part, as I say. For the primary level, which means for the whole part from pediatricians to gynaecologists, to family doctors, the number will be accurately presented within the network, but according to the principals to be provided for these calculations, and we will see there. But I'm still saying the same for secondary and tertiary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u429	Thank you very much. Also a procedural proposal, Mrs. Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u430	In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that a general debate be held, because all the information provided by Mr Minister is indeed not in line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u431	Thank you for your proposal. It will be decided, as has been said several times, on Wednesday, 26 September in the framework of the vote. But we are moving on to the last question we have for today. Mr Branko Ficko will present it to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u432	Hello again! Mr Minister, we have already discussed this subject, but the farmers of Pomur have again given me the task of asking a question before the seed plant outside the door on a regulation banning the use of seeds processed with chemical preparations adopted by your predecessor in April 2011. On the basis of this provision, the use of Poncho, Cruiser and Gaucho is still prohibited, and the movement of seeds treated with active substances is also prohibited, which is already known. The preparations were used to disinfect seed maize in front of groundwater pests, in particular strings. Upon restriction, growers state that this causes a serious problem in the fields due to a string attack. About 50% of the crops destroyed were found. There are problems with crows and so on. In Pomure, where corn is more than 20,000 acres [20,000 ha], about a third of the crop was destroyed. At the same time, we import more than 170 thousand tonnes of maize. This provision is certainly not appropriate from the point of view of self-sustainment. Question, Mr. Minister: Why did you not revoke your predecessor's orders after taking office because of the damage caused? How will farmers be compensated for damages of around EUR 20 million, as estimated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u433	Thank you very much. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u434	Hello! One last answer, and I hope the day is over. As far as your question is concerned, this is the question that we met together with the gloomy farmers, who keep reminding us of the problem of the regulation adopted last spring, after more than 2 thousand 500 bee families were killed. At the time of this year's plant, not all the research prepared by the responsible authorities in this area has been completed. The results that were already known at the time, as well as the practice that proved to be, indicate that these active substances from the preparations you mentioned are those who are guilty or responsible for this scourge of bee families. In the discussions we had with both farmers and professionals, we were united in the need to start new talks at that time, to see what had happened, given that it had done much already in 2009 to reduce the risk to bees due to the use of treated seeds. It was then compulsory to process seed plants, the standard for treated seeds was established, the labelling of the treated seed, the management of seed sowing waste, the keeping of records and so on, which clearly proved to be insufficient in 2011 and therefore, as we know, this unloved sea occurred. In the interviews conducted in 2011 with the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber, technical instructions were prepared to try to prevent damage caused by maize beetles and string. As a major measure, the provision was made for cologne, in cases where no colobar was carried out, the use of Force 1.5 G preparations and other agritechnical measures. Therefore, the cologne represents, as we all know, a key measure to reduce the consequences and prevent both maize beetles and strings, while others also foresee the use of these preparations. As far as crows are concerned, it's possible to use repellents as a distraction for birds, thus avoiding the consequences. The key question that you have asked is whether the withdrawal of the Ordinance on the Prohibition of the Transport and Use of Certain Plant Protection Products in the Territory of the Republic of Slovenia is being considered, with particular emphasis on these two means. I can tell you that, as I said before, we've done quite a lot of talking about this. It is estimated that a thorough debate and discussion with beekeepers and farmers should be held and that conclusions should be reached relatively quickly in the end. However, it can be said that information is also coming at this time that, even in other countries where there are no such restrictions today, they are considering possible new restrictions. So at this point, I can't give the final answer. We would like to see, with the cooperation of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, the plant protection authorities and also farmers, this thorough discussion of beekeepers takes place and then some conclusions are adopted. As regards the recovery of damage, we do not have a legal basis for this, so it is not considered that the damage determined after this result would be the consequence of the non-use of these disinfectants in order to pay for it. Otherwise, another census is being conducted due to another harmful case in Pomure.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u435	Thank you very much. So, we're really done without the demands to complete the answer. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue on Wednesday, 26 September 2012, when the National Assembly will decide on all the proposed decisions in the context of the vote. I also interrupt the sixth session of the National Assembly. We'll continue tomorrow at 9:00. Thank you all very much. Good night. Good night.
