ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I begin the 5th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Three colleagues and two colleagues apologized for today, namely Maja Dimitrovski, Roman Jakič and Mag. Branko Grimes. I invited the first item of the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government, the 13th item of the representative of the State Audit Commission and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. Nicely greeted in the sitting! We are moving on to the agenda of the 5th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the agenda by reference on Friday 29 June 2012. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of items from the agenda and for enlargement. However, I would like to inform you that we have received a proposal for a re-decision on the decision of the College. At its 21st meeting on 29 June 2012, the College of Presidents of the National Assembly decided that certain laws should be dealt with in accordance with an urgent or reduced procedure. These are the following laws: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Traffic Rules, Short-term Procedure, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Transport in Road Transport, Urgent Procedure, and All of the following by Emergency Procedure: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Protection, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agriculture, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction of Objects, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Promotion of Harmonious Regional Development, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act. On the basis of the 10th paragraph of Article 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Group of 24 Members and Members, with the first signed by Janie Möderndorfer, requested the National Assembly to decide on those decisions by the College. That's why I put this request on the agenda. This requirement is set out in the Rules of Procedure on the first agenda of the next meeting of the National Assembly without discussion and vote; only the applicant has the right to explain his proposal; that request will be treated as A1. the agenda item today, as soon as the agenda is set. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference, together with that addition to point A1. We will vote on the agenda, so please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 1. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda of the 5th meeting has been set. We're moving to A1. Agenda item — Request for a group of Members and Members to decide on the decisions of the College of the President of the State. As I have said before, these are laws which the College has decided to deal with under urgent procedure, and a law which the College has decided to deal with in short proceedings. With regard to these decisions, we have received a request from the Group of Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Janije Möderndorfer. I ask Mr Möderndorfer's representatives to present the position of the applicants, if possible, for all 10 decisions together, and then we will vote on each individual. Here you go, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Of course, I'll give an explanation for all the points together, as you suggested. At the very beginning, what you, the President, have already repeated twice that we or the 21st regular session have taken decisions for one law after a reduced procedure and for all others – unfortunately, I have to list them once again because it works as if these laws are minor, irrelevant, minimalist, and it has also been appropriate to decide to deal with them following an urgent procedure. It is a law on road transport transport, the law on environmental protection, the law on agriculture, the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Construction of Buildings, the law on promoting coherent regional development, the law on spatial planning, the law on water, the law on the prevention of restriction of competition and the law on the placement of spatial arrangements of State importance in the space, and the law on road transport rules in the short run. All these laws make it very clear that it is a matter of matter that is still affecting all citizens and citizens in the area where they live and where they work. Of course, for the space itself and for the National Assembly, it is not irrelevant that such a decision is proposed in the College. See, recently there has been a remarkable practice that we all have in fact been alerting together in the Public Finance Balance Act. At that time, we warned that a kind of precedent had begun when we put in place quick procedures for individual laws for a single reason: how to adopt something so quickly that, in fact, only after this has been established will we find out what we did not know when we accepted it. This has been proved by the Law on the Balance of Public Finance, when, in fact, it is only today that some Members – I do not even resent citizens and citizens, because it is not their duty to monitor this, it is only their right, and for us it is our duty – we do not know what actually follows from this law. It was a change of 38 laws. Of course, the law and practice have shown in this direction that probably such a super law does not show and is not good to accept. Therefore, the applicants, in this case the Government, decided to adopt such laws on a case-by-case basis at an extraordinary meeting. What is wrong with us is that if we look at the latest statistics pointed out by a fellow Member of Posture in the last College, and I have to say that I was surprised, especially the President of the National Assembly, and it is true that she does not have the right to vote in the College, and today he will have it and will show his will and justice over the watchfulness of some legal order that we have set ourselves with the Rules of Procedure, what is right and what is wrong. Lately, especially after the appointment of Government 10. 2. In 2012, seven extraordinary meetings were convened. Let me point out that all have been called upon by the government and the Members of the ruling coalition not to mention that of all the draft laws that the National Assembly has considered following the appointment of the Government to its proposal, there was no bill in both regular and extraordinary sessions, which would have passed three hearings at several meetings of the National Assembly. They were all by emergency or short-circuited. The College of the President of the National Assembly has decided to deal with 25 legislative proposals following a reduced procedure, of which 19 are government proposals, and 31 under an urgent procedure. In particular, I would like to point out that this statistics do not include a law on the balance of public finances which dealt with 39 laws. So we only counted him once — as one marriage. Adding this, we will get not a very pleasant and friendly statistics that would be proud of us and time. In particular, if we calculate that we have dealt with 90% of the bill proposals in total under a procedure that is not a regular legislative procedure. Can you think?Oh, my God! Six months, 90%, just like that. We have thus led the National Assembly to the point of absurdity, total, complete absurdity, because Members decide things they do not even know about and can't explain what they are deciding, they know only, and this is often the case, asking their leaders how we are actually going to vote. This is the saddest process that has ever taken place in the National Assembly. However, we always like to refer to the German Parliament, German legislation, German practice and what else I know. Let me say that one such normal procedure in the German Parliament, and those who refer to it, know very well, lasts for at least four months. Not to mention the systemic changes they have in the German Parliament lasts up to one year. Well, we're not going to miss it, because it's too fast for some mind to understand that it's actually just useful. What is important to us is that we are not alone in this knowledge, but even the Anti-Corruption Commission has identified and noted, for the first time in 20 years, from which we have it, that legislation, which falls under the urgent procedure of the National Assembly, is subject to corruption, as it covers the very partial interest of individuals and is very much of an interest that this is really adopted after a rapid procedure. However, what I have heard from the Head of the SDS Group in the College's explanation is simply irrelevant information and that it is truly incredible how KPK is now dealing with this instead of what else. Everything goes through a single cover called a crisis. In times of crisis, it is imperative to drive everyone in a rapid manner. But immediately there is doubt and suspicion that this speed only leads to another extreme, when you know for yourself that everything you do quickly, even in a private life, at home, whenever, mistakes occur most often. Of course, I don't tell anyone that he's doing it on purpose. Far from doing it maliciously. No, no, no, no, no! In the spirit of some solutions after a quick rescue. However, there are some standards, some practice where that limit, when it comes to stopping horses, takes time — even in times of crisis and makes it possible for ourselves to do what we have prescribed is right. If I mention just one thing, which, I must say, gave me a hand-to-heart surprise. At the College itself, even the president of the National Assembly himself found that what we are doing is not the best. I quote the President of the National Assembly: "The second thing is, we have looked at the statistics, for each beginning of the mandate is that each government at the beginning very quickly, also your government has done so, and you will see that statistics show this, trying to implement some of its policies that are urgent, so at the beginning of the mandate there are a lot of treatments following reduced and urgent procedures, which is certainly not the best thing for the quality of legislation, but these things will have to be done slowly. I will also open this issue to the coalition so that, with slightly better planning, regulatory activities, this relationship between regular and urgent procedures changes a little bit." Can you think? At the coalition, he's gonna ask that question and try to fix it. Coalition! We do have rules of procedure in the National Assembly. We're completely out. Within the coalition, we are watching and observing what the right time frame will decide whether or not to follow any other procedure, whether it is good for the Republic of Slovenia or not. The President of the National Assembly, the first of the same, the guardian of legality and action in the National Assembly, must simply decide. What is most interesting is that we have come to the conclusion that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at Article 143, on the basis of which all of this was adopted, do not give rise to arguments that justify the adoption of the law by emergency procedure. The latter applies in cases – please be careful! – when it comes to the interests of the security and defence of the State, the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters or the reasons for preventing the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State. Let us take a quick look at what is so important for the defence of the country and the hard-to-repar consequences that will arise for this reason. Public funds pooling. If we do not unite, because so far it has been only a matter of time before the situation in the country, the RS Public Fund for Entrepreneurship and the RS Public Fund for Regional Development and Rural Development into the Single Public Fund has deteriorated, we need to bring this together immediately, because otherwise something very wrong will happen. In fact, we all know that it is only a transfer and a human resources policy, because there was no serious report in the very explanation, what will actually happen to this merger and what this will bring to the country or where these procedures will be so facilitated that it will stimulate economic development, as this savings package or economic stimulus package represents. If we are talking about the launch of an independent competition agency and the transformation of the competition protection office into an agency, it is not a measure for us to stimulate economic growth. The same applies to this case. In particular, I must say that I have been paying attention to the novels of the Construction Act or the novels of the Spatial Planning Act. The Law on Construction of Buildings, when this novel law first appeared, if you remember those who still have a historical memory, but I believe that you all have it, especially when I mention it, was Minister Janez Podobnik of the Slovenian People's Party, who mentioned that with the amendment of the law we will speed up procedures and everything will go smoothly and easier. I ask you not to repeat such terms of the coalition, because every time something tried to simplify itself, it just got more complicated. And today we have such a law that this same coalition as it was when this law was being enacted changes it again because it finds that it is complicated. Who should I trust now? The other thing that is even more important is that, in these two laws, the complete professional public in Slovenia jumped into the air. Let me mention that I will be more precise, that there will be no later objections to environmental regulation. Thus, at the very novel of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction of Buildings, practically all organised professional public in Slovenia is the Chamber of Architecture and Space, the Chamber of Engineering of Slovenia, all professional companies of architects, landscape architects and urbanists, and two civil society organisations responsible for the space and the network for space rejected the following three things in due time. It rejected the way in which new spatial and construction legislation was drawn up without the involvement of experts from those organisations as well as experts from ministries. It rejected a large majority of the proposed amendments proposed by this law and rejected a totally inappropriate way of adopting them by emergency procedure. The press release of the two civil society umbrella organisations in the area of space regulation, which brings together all professional, residential, non-governmental and educational organisations, makes it clear that a thousand 700 participants from the survey, this is practically all organised professional public, strongly and clearly rejected such a method of preparation, method of reception and, above all, the content of the proposed amendments. Participants believe that the relation to the natural and created data and value of space, the attitude towards the population and the relation to housing, production areas, sports, recreational areas, infrastructure areas and all protected areas of the rich natural and cultural heritage of the Republic of Slovenia with this proposal of legislation will not be corrected, but will only deteriorate. Therefore, the professional public expresses the protest and is justifiably concerned about how to solve the problems by the Ministry of Interior and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which shows the misunderstanding and problem of regulating the premises and building the facilities. I think this is not only about Positive Slovenia, 28 Members, but it is about the heart of the mind and knowledge that Slovenia has. And if this is not a big enough appeal for only one thing to change: from an emergency procedure to a normal regular procedure involving the professional public — nothing else. No, no, no. We prefer to go in the order of things that are actually in violation of everything. Such unacceptable matters have already been pointed out by the Ombudsman, Dr. Zdenka Čebašek Travnik. In a public letter, the Government drew attention to violations of the Aarhus Convention in amending environmental legislation. Although the public should have at least 30 days of time to reflect on and comment on any intervention in environmental legislation, only a few days of time has been allowed for public debate and the collection of comments and proposals. We've only come to those shortest minimums. However, the Government or the competent ministers have infringed the following rules, namely to establish conventions on access to public information, public participation in decision-making and access to legal protection in environmental matters, a resolution on regulatory activities, which, in the framework of the minimum recommendations for public participation in the preparation of regulations, provides that this should last for 30 to 60 days, an Environmental Protection Act which provides that ministries, when adopting regulations that may have a greater impact on the environment, should make it possible for the public to take note of the draft regulation and allow them to comment for at least 30 days. Finally, the Government is in breach of its own rules of procedure, which provides that the proposed regulation must invite the professional and other public to submit their opinions and comments, with time for public response 30 to 60 days from the publication on the website, and finally what I mentioned at the outset, 143rd Rule of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, I apologize, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, we have decided that, for the sake of God's will, Members of the Positive Slovenia and Members of the Parliament, we should reconsider whether this is so urgently necessary for this to happen, as you like to say and refer to it. See, even at the Centre for Information, Cooperation and Development of NGOs, they point to the unacceptable practice of the Government. Although the Government should give, in accordance with its Rules of Procedure, a 30-day deadline for public consultation to those concerned by the regulation, this is practically no longer the case. Number of violations of the resolutions on normative activities and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia since 1. 3. to 18. 6. 2012 points to a very specific perception of the rule of law and democracy, as the ministries did not comply with public consultation rules in 84% and cases, in preparation of 81 to 96 regulations, and in all cases the adoption and preparation of regulations violates the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Defence. According to the total number, there are 14 violations and the Ministry of the Interior is first. None of the ministries respected the resolution in at least 50%. Not a single department! But look, if the government's breaking it down, it's still going to be the National Assembly? Do we have to follow their lead? Isn't this a hell of a place where we say, "Enough, let's stop the horses, let's go in order, let's go slowly!" I have to say, this isn't about some classic excuses that the opposition might be able to make, you know, annoy, tease. It is the President of the National Assembly, the rule of law that we have set ourselves. And if we don't respect him ourselves, why should everyone else? I'm asking for your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u3	Procedurally, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In order to be able to decide on the request of the Positive Slovenia Group, despite the extensive rationale where Mr. Möderndorfer also referred to the historical memory and the professional public, I wonder whether this performance is also an implicit protest against the complete failure of the opposition to debate in the Ljubljana City Council, where Mr. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u5	Mr Jerovšek, this is not a procedural question or proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u6	There the opposition has no rights, and if it confirms that it is to protest against it, then we are in a different light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u7	There is no debate or explanation of vote on this request, so we will just go to the vote. Of course, we will vote on each decision of the College separately. I propose to the National Assembly first that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Rules Act shall be dealt with in a simplified manner. If the decision is not adopted, the proposal for a law will be dealt with on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, for 46, for 34. [[It's 46 votes.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the law will be dealt with in a simplified manner. I propose to the National Assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act shall be considered on an urgent basis. If the decision is not adopted, the law will be dealt with on a regular basis. We're voting. There's 79 in attendance, 45 in front of 27. [[It's 45 votes.]] [[Against 27.]] I find that the decision is adopted, and we will deal with the law as a matter of urgency. Next decision: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Protection shall be considered under urgent procedure. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, for 45, for 35. [[It's 45 votes.]] [[Against 35.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The law will be dealt with as a matter of urgency. Next decision: The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agriculture Act shall be considered by emergency procedure. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, for 45, for 34. [[It's 45 votes.]] [[Against 34.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We will deal with the bill in an urgent manner. Next decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Construction Act shall be considered by emergency procedure. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, for 44, for 36. [[It's 44 votes.]] [[Against 36.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The bill will be dealt with in an urgent manner. Next decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development shall be considered in accordance with the urgency procedure. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 43 to 34. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the decision is adopted, and the proposal will be dealt with in an urgent manner. Next decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Spatial Planning Act shall be dealt with in an urgent manner. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, for 43, for 36. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the decision has been adopted, and we will consider the proposal of the law as a matter of urgency. Next decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Water Act shall be dealt with in an urgent manner. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 34. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 34.]] The proposal will be dealt with in an urgent manner. Next decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act shall be dealt with on an urgent basis. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 35. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 35.]] The decision is adopted and the law will be dealt with by emergency procedure. Next decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the placing of spatial arrangements of State importance in the space shall be considered in accordance with the urgency procedure. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 33. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 33.]] The decision is adopted and the proposal for a law will be dealt with in an urgent manner. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the meeting, which we will continue with the questions raised by the Members at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u8	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received a written application of 49 questions from the Member States within the time limit. As usual, the first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government and by the Minister and ministers. Mr President of the Government, Minister, Minister, Secretary-General of the Government, welcome. As always, each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. Time for an answer is five minutes. If the question is addressed to two or more ministers, the total time to answer is five minutes. Then it is possible to request a supplement to the reply. This may take two minutes to complete the response may take three minutes. The Member who has asked the question may propose to hold a debate on the answer to the next meeting. In the event that a Member or a Member does not receive or receive a reply today due to the absence of a Minister or for any other reason, he shall be entitled to receive a written reply within 30 days. However, if he specifically states that he insists on an oral response, I will place this question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this agenda item, three ministers apologized for today: Dr Janez Šuštersič, Mr Karl Erjavec and Dr Žiga Turk, Mr Erjavec from 18:00 on. You have also received a review of the questions sent, which were not answered within the deadline. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. Mrs Tamara Vont, Mr Janko Weber, mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš and Mr Michael Prevc. The first question asked by Mrs Tamara Vont of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u9	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Prime Minister! Strasbourg, 26 June 2012. The European Court of Human Rights, the Court of Justice on the Kurić case and others against Slovenia. In the case of deleted persons, Slovenia has committed mass violations of human rights and has discriminated on the basis of ethnicity. The six belong to compensation and payment of legal costs. Ljubljana, 27 June 2012 Minister Žerjav: "The state for damages erased has no money. If everyone demands compensation, we come up with horrifying numbers." Brussels, June 28th. Prime Minister Janša: "Slovenia has no money for the compensation of the erased, because it has no money for the urgent needs." Somewhere in Slovenia, Democracy, July 5th, Prime Minister Janša: "The government will do everything in its power to ensure that Slovenian taxpayers do not pay people who did not want to regulate their status when they become independent. It will be known on salaries, pensions, layoffs in the public sector, in short, everywhere. This is a big torpedo in Slovenian public finances." Blog, Minister Gorenak: "First we will feed those citizens and citizens who do not have income, only then will we think about what else. If we had to pay compensation to others who had been erased, it could have destroyed the country and the state would not have allowed it, at least not under this government. Most of them are speculators. Where he's not, he doesn't even take the army." Nor does this human wisdom hold. Where he's not, the army can obviously take something else. For example, we promise him half a million dollars a few days after all these statements to help the Afghan security forces. Of course, these are Slovenia's obligations to NATO. And what is the obligation of the European Court of Human Rights to Slovenia? So far, no government has managed to avoid the European Court of Justice's obligations. As to how you feel about the court, let the public, as a rule on Mondays and Wednesdays, judge for themselves. But this is about the reputation of the country, the reputation of the members of the European Union, the reputation of our so-called democracy, and the close of our eyes to the facts, to which many have been reminded for years. Of course, this does not just apply to your government. For this reason, how and when does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia intend to implement the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in the Kurić case and others against Slovenia? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u10	The President of the Government has the floor. Colleague Vonta, you're going to shut down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u11	Thank you for the questions. Thank you, too, for this collection of quotations, we could complete it with dozens more quotations, which mainly came from the same bench or from the neighborhood in the past years and when Members from this political option provided when they adopted legislation that went to the detriment of Slovenia, how Slovenia would never pay any compensation to the deleted. The judgment of the European Court of Human Rights is a logical consequence of the decisions of various bodies, different branches of government in Slovenia. And that's where they simply copied the findings. Whoever here would have blamed the European Court of Justice for these damages in any way would have measured the wrong target. The very personal and the party I lead has been working for many years to adopt legislation here that would allow justifiable cases to be separated from the unjustifiable ones, not to talk about just some category of 25 000 that never existed, and in this way allow individual cases to be judged from the case to the case. We have invested legislation in this direction, including constitutional laws. In the previous term, the government, which I led, drafted a constitutional law that, if adopted, there would be no such problems and a speech on compensation, but we could never get two-thirds majority for such solutions. Now we have the judgment of the European Court of Justice. This judgment speaks of, I think, six separate cases. It is only there that the judgment is final and will have to be carried out by Slovenia. In the part where the judgment speaks about the preparation of a program, how it will solve other similar problems, there is, of course, a ball on our side. It will be necessary to establish a system that will allow for the separation of beneficiaries from unjustifiable cases, or that will allow a separate assessment of each case individually, and a system that will allow for the compensations to be obvious, despite the authors of this project, that they will never occur, but that compensation will obviously still occur, so a system will have to be established whereby these compensations will be assessed in proportion to the compensations that this country has paid at any time, and I think that even within a certain period of time within which the priorities will be clearly defined. Let us remind this High Council that the issue of the material damage suffered by the Second World War of 70 years ago has not yet been resolved, that entire generations are waiting for compensation, that we have a series of judicial decisions on the basis of which people have not yet received compensation, that we also have cases of individual categories where things are not yet resolved. I am pleased, however, to take this strong stand on this basis, to argue that the judgments of the courts must be respected, but it must be added that all judgements must then be respected, that compensation is not justified only by some who are at the discretion of one political option. It saddens me that none of the lawyers in this project cares about where we will get the money for these damages, as if the pockets of Slovenian taxpayers are bottomless and as if they can be burdened with anything at any time that anyone remembers.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u12	Thank you. Complementary request, Mrs. Vont. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I didn't get an answer to the question, so I'm gonna try it again. I'm not interested in the guilt of those who haven't warned you about this or warned us that there will be no compensation. It's actually stupid to say at this point right now. Now here, where we are, we are faced with some certain consequences, some of which have been pointed out for many years, as has been said. As far as the European Court of Justice and all judgments are concerned, Slovenia has paid €8 million in compensation in recent years. And this is now just another case in a number of these cases. And I'm afraid not the last. The erasure is a big stain for our country, and we have caused injustice for many, and this is not my assessment, this is the assessment of the European Court of Human Rights. You were a member of the government that made the deletion, and you've been actively working against the correction of these injustices all along. You also have ministers in the current government who have assisted in this discriminatory act. Again, this is not my assessment, this is the assessment of the European Court of Human Rights. Yet you continue to discriminate. This time in the case of a similar number of 26 000 341 pensioners who are deprived of their pension pension due to their lust for lustration up to 20%. Just the chosen ones, then. Moreover, the Secretary-General of the Government allows himself to tweet, which would cost jobs elsewhere in Europe. Prime Minister – nothing. The European Court of Justice’s lawyer, Dr Andrea Saccucci, said, inter alia, that when a serious violation of the Convention on Human Rights occurs, the State is obliged to carry out an investigation to determine and punish those responsible for the infringement. I want to know: Will you initiate an investigation? How will you sanction all those responsible for the removal and, consequently, for the damages we will pay in the case or cases of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u14	Complementary response. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u15	Some of these sentences may sound convincing to those who have been dealing with this problem for about a month or a few years. Those who know the whole story, especially those who were in the parliamentary benches of several mandates when it got complicated and tried to untangle it is, excuse me, mostly the beating of an empty straw. Firstly, Slovenia has never erased anyone on an ethnic basis, nor has anyone received a permanent residence based on nationality. It was never a condition and it was such a claim to shooting past facts. Secondly, the first problem of so-called deleted occurred only after 1994 in Slovenia, following Dayton agreements, when it was clear that life in Slovenia would be significantly better than in the territory of the countries that originated in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, that pensions were ten times higher for us than for those who did not want Slovenian citizenship, and after this had also received strong political accelerations and support in Slovenia. If I may remind you of the first time that this problem was supposed to exist, even the then President of the State, Mr Milan Kučan, said that it had not been deleted. Then he changed his mind, and so did some others. Slovenia is, in fact, the only new country that has offered citizenship to all those who wanted it and who lived in Slovenia without any restriction. This was not the case when, for example, the Baltic States gained their independence, and the question of the hundreds of thousands of Russian-speaking people of the Baltic States is still open in terms of citizenship and many other rights. By putting Slovenia here on some sad bench, even from the parliamentary branches of the national parliament, however, it is a little too much. In those days when Slovenia was emerging, many administrative matters had to be resolved. Today, in six months, we are not decent enough to adopt any major law, then it was necessary to adopt the whole self-sustainment legislation and it is possible that there have been mistakes. And that was also clearly said, so we pleaded through procedures where justified cases, when someone could not regulate their status, were separated from the unjustifiable ones. It's been blocked for 20 years, and today we have consequences. They are responsible for these consequences, and even compensation, if you want, should be the responsibility of those who have done so.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u16	Would you like to request a debate? Here you go, Mrs. Vonta.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Prime Minister, we are therefore sending an empty message to the European Court of Justice. I hope you're aware that's what you said. But still, there are two bright exceptions on your ministerial team, but they think that these injustices must be settled, namely Minister Plitschani and Minister Turk. I think it would be right for our citizens and citizens, instead of these populism and simplified statements that arouse new intolerances, to point out indirectly that the ones we are going to live worse are being deleted. It is better to present solutions and achieve responsibility for discriminatory behaviour. Once again, this is not my assessment, this is in the judgment of the European Court of Justice. It is right that people know that, otherwise, apart from the shame in the international community, we will receive much higher payments and that, at the moment, school multiplication with the number of deleted is not legally sustainable. The European Court of Human Rights is not an uncle from the background. I hope we all agree. I therefore request that a general debate be held on the basis of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the reply of the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u18	Thank you very much. This will be decided on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. The following question will be put by Mr Janko Weber, Social Democrats, to the Prime Minister of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u19	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! I would like to ask Mr President of the Government the question, above all, because we are meeting in Slovenia with all the greater agony and uncertainty of workers who are inexorably waiting for the fate of their businesses and this agony, we find that it is even increasing from day to day. The government argues in its actions and also in its visits that this is not its problem to which it should respond effectively. However, if we look at companies in all regions of Slovenia, let me just mention Fructal in Ajdovščina, Primorje, Papermaking in Radeča, Nolik in Kočev, CM Celje and Cestno dom Ljubljana, there is virtually no region in Slovenia where companies would not encounter very serious problems and bankruptcys. I just want to remind you that when we saw these problems in the previous mandate, we have adopted even a law to save Pomurd and adopted a programme to address the measures in Pokolp. We don't detect these activities by the government right now. I would like to draw particular attention today to the area of construction, which is also a reflection of the government's development orientation. We note that many subcontractors have also collapsed as all major construction companies in Slovenia collapsed and that foreign larger companies receive jobs in Slovenia. We can see from the media that Strabag builds very intensively in Slovenia instead of our builders. Here it must be remembered that this will also make the profit drain from Slovenia, so that the money we have for investments will not be reflected as economic growth in Slovenia, but in other foreign countries, for example. The statistics themselves, if we look at them, show that the value of the works performed in April 2012 falls by more than 14 % of the value of these works, say in April 2011. Also, if we look at the current year, we find that more than 9% of the works were carried out in April of this year than in March 2012. That's why I'm asking you, Prime Minister, How will the Government protect the precarious situation of workers in firms in difficulty and with what measures or policies will it help individual sectors that are key to economic recovery? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u20	Mr. Janša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u21	Thank you very much for asking. Thus quickly calculated from 10 February, when this government swore, to date we have recorded approximately zero growth in employment and unemployment in Slovenia. It is said that about as many jobs as we lost them at that time were created. Unfortunately, in the last three years, Mr Weber, we have lost 100,000 jobs in Slovenia and something else. At the end of the 2004-2008 government mandate, there were less than 70,000 unemployed in Slovenia, and that year we issued close to 100,000 working permits for foreigners. Today or at the end of the mandate of the Pahor government, 100,000 people and fewer people worked in Slovenia and at least 100,000 people less than at the beginning of the mandate. So much for when we noticed these problems. Second. All construction companies, or most construction companies, have failed in the last three years or in the last three years, given that there was no investment activity, despite Slovenia’s enormous indebtedness. If at least part of these strong billions, with which we have doubled our national debt, were to invest, then most of the construction sector would certainly not have failed, except for those who have failed because of speculation about ownership itself, which is another story. Since its operation, it has been working primarily in this direction, improving the conditions of management with the ultimate objective of increasing the number of jobs in the economy. Every new job in the economy, I have said this about this pay phone or in these benches many times, is a small but very important step towards getting out of the crisis. This month you will consider the second package of measures for growth, a series of laws that want to improve the Slovenian business environment, improve the environment by increasing domestic and foreign investments, as only new investments in the economy will be able to bring new jobs. This will also increase the social security of employees, and we will raise more funds for solidarity through the contributions that all employees regularly pay. As part of the efforts to sign the new social agreement, we are also negotiating with the social partners to amend the labour law, which will allow us to eliminate the certain anomalies that you have discussed and, above all, to equalise the rights of employees in this country, which are now inequitable. We have two categories of employees or three categories, those who are due to bankruptcy on the verge of losing their jobs or even over, which is the most difficult problem, then we have a category of employees for a certain period of time that is constantly increasing, they have significantly less rights than those who are employed for an indefinite period of time. So today in Slovenia we actually have first-class and second-class employees. First-class in the public sector, where most of the jobs are for an indefinite period of time, and second-class in the economy where virtually all new jobs due to the rigidity of the legislation are for a certain period of time. In fact, discrimination is being created here, which we are trying to negotiate the basis for amending labour law. We are trying, we are trying to introduce a so-called state in which the job will be less protected, and the social security of the job loser will be increased, and in particular the possibility of obtaining a new job will be increased, and significantly greater rights arising from the employment relationship will increase depending on the number of years of employment, so that this discrimination will not depend on whether you work for a certain period or for an indefinite period of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u22	Request for a supplement. Mr. Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u23	Thank you. Of course, I will demand a supplement, because, given the situation in question, the precarious situation of the workers, however, I expected a more concrete response from the President of the Government. I just want to remind him once again about the debt in particular in the area of construction. Also, the decision of your government, Mr Janez Janša, from 2004-2008, that by increasing the crediting of the construction of the motorway, you have intervened dramatically in the fact that after the completion of the construction the motorway construction was in an impossible position, because it was easy with such a great deal of technique, with such a large volume of employees could not survive because there were no projects prepared. In fact, I would like on your part to state that you have projects ready, that this is what can speedily save us from the economic crisis. Unfortunately, I reiterate that you want to further reduce workers' rights, labour legislation, but you are not thinking about investments. This is also evident from the implementation of the 2012 budget, since, if we look at it, the state budget is implemented from January to May 2012 at 24% of 75% of the planned investment expenditure and 183 thousand 175 million euros of the planned investment expenditure for investment transfers. We are particularly concerned about this because we have observed that you do not have a priority, that actually the Koper-Farmer Railway is something you no longer care about, and you are interested in the construction of Koper-Trst. So not only do you weaken our economy, you actually want to connect also through Italian railways and thus weaken Luka. That's why I'm asking you, President: Are you in a position to put such a confused policy in order? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u24	Here you go, Mr. Jansha.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u25	Sometimes, despite a serious situation, it is difficult to remain serious. Mr Weber, you are telling us that in the first half of the year we did not meet the 2012 budget, in which your government planned more than 20% of the funds than it had ever collected. For 2 billion more, and then with the rebalancing, we had to urgently fix it. I see the same logic in this obvious that we're not interested in another track. You were obviously interested in him in the previous term, but no shovel was planted, nothing happened. It's not enough that someone's interested in something, and it's something that needs to be done. The problem with the second track plan is an investment that is extremely expensive, with tens of kilometres of tunnels, and obviously you haven't chosen this money in three years, and we haven't chosen it in three months. But this is still a priority that we will try to implement within the framework of the possibility. As far as the Divača-Trist railway line is concerned, this is in our commitments to the European transport network, which you have also renewed and signed several times in the previous mandate, but this is only a later period and this is not an alternative. With regard to concrete measures. Look, I can't promise you here that this government will do the same as it did when it was paying people to stay busy, but they didn't work. Money that was or wasn't available for this is, in short, the money that you borrowed is already spent, and we don't have it anymore. You can spend the same euro once. This cannot be done if you thought these concrete measures were lacking. We wish that we will not artificially reduce the problem and simply buy social peace, but that we will in fact come to the fact that the economy will be able to create new jobs, so that it will get sufficient room for manoeuvre based on measures already taken to facilitate investment, based on measures that, as I said, will be addressed this month, improve the Slovenian environment also for foreign investments, so that the economy breathes again. And it's true that we won't get to that for another week or another month. It will take some time for this desert to be watered and something to come out of this drought. But these are the only steps that lead to salvation. Putting your head in the sand, borrowing money to finance something that the crisis can't see, that's what we've been trying for the last three years and you see where we are.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u26	Mr. Weber, will you suggest a debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u27	Thank you for your word. I'm sure I have a procedural proposal. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the National Assembly to hold a debate on, in my opinion, the inadequate response of the President of the Government of Mr Janez Janša. Let me remind you, Mr President, that you announced in that first term with Mr Sponik that you would plant a shovel on the third development axis at the meeting in Velenj. How many years has it been since that shovel is gone? To see that the previous government had no interest and the priority was incorrect. We have indeed made it very clear that the construction of railway infrastructure for the previous government is a very high priority, an important priority. Many procedures have also taken place in this direction, so it surprises us that you are giving up the Koper-Divic project. It is true that in this short period of time we had at our disposal a number of procedures for putting into space had to be carried out. A large part of this was about resolving disputes with the agrarian community, in which, to remind you, the form of action was adopted at the time of the Demos' government in a way that made it difficult to obtain the consent of many owners, co-owners of these parcels living around the world. It would have been better if we had tied the law to the house number of the settlement and the agrarian community still functioning today and investment could have expired. But look, President, I'm really kind of surprised to see your answers to this burning topic, both the development of construction and other job-saving. Why am I talking about the confusion of your solutions? If we just take the case of Primor, of the total EUR 20 million recapitalisation of Primorje, we would certainly reduce the burden of the state budget, which we estimate, because of the many job losses, it will even be close to EUR 160 million. Instead of saving the company, maintaining a major important builder, we are additionally charging the budget with € 160 million. And that's what actually hurts because we don't feel these really effective solutions. I think we really need to have a serious debate on this, and I hope that we will get a majority in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u28	Thank you. Your request will be decided on Wednesday. Thirdly, the last opposition question to the Prime Minister will be posed by a mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u29	President, where should I place your government's work in the definition of social responsibility? In the country's scrupulousness competition, you have overlooked what elegance means for the social state, for public service programmes, even the safety of citizens and citizens of our country is questionable. Positive Slovenia opposed sharp cuts to untouchable items. It's clear today. The Mega Savings Law does not spare the socially most vulnerable: pensioners, students, students, young families, disabled persons, unemployed people and recipients of social assistance. Your neoliberal doctrine deepens social inequality, a respected president. Slovenia received food aid from the European Union worth €160,000 last year. This amount increased by a good twelve times this year to a good 2.5 million. For so long, poverty has deepened in one year. This is not the kindness of the European Union. There are 54,000 people in Slovenia who have less than €200 per month. If there were 273,000 people living in poverty last year, it is estimated that half a million have been living below the poverty threshold. The government has further cut into rights, into transfers which are of particular importance in terms of ensuring the safety of the socially disadvantaged. Official ZPIZ data: close to 40% of pensioners receive a pension of less than 500 euros, a quarter of Slovenian pensioners live below the poverty line. The negative consequences of your austerity hysteria, respected president, have also been suffered by pensioners under the poverty line, which is set at 600 euros. Next. The lower pensions received 26 thousand 341 people last month. You have also deducted up to 25% of your income from these political electorates, a quarter. Are you still assessing that these are urgent and just austerity measures, and what are the positive effects for people? That's what I'm asking you. Latvia has done savings in a similar way. The Constitutional Court has imposed an application for a refund of EUR 140 million, explaining that the reduction of pensions constitutes a violation of the individual's right to social security and the rule of law. Are you aware, President, that people in our country in the 21st century share in the desired and unwanted, that you are causing new injustices, that I am not saying that you are going to some kind of silent lustration? What are you going to do, President, when the Constitutional Court sentences the pensioners? As far as I am aware, there are currently 15 claims in the Constitutional Court under the Public Finance Balance Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u30	I give my word to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Since the Law on the Balance of Public Finance has been enforced, saving hysteria has been discussed primarily by those who lack nothing, while those who are actually on the brink of survival, as you said, understand mainly that in the situation where Slovenia is, it is necessary to tighten the belt and try to get the beginning together with the end. If this law had not been adopted and, as your fellow Member had suggested in the previous question, this government had spent 20% more budget than it would have collected revenue, then at the end of the year Slovenia would in fact no longer be a social state, they would not have been able to provide social transfers, nor pensions to those who have pensions below EUR 500, not to those who have pensions above EUR 500. The government has made a great deal of efforts to ensure that this Public Finance Balance Act was drafted in such a way that it was a large number of measures that have resulted in the sum, but not individually cut deep, especially where revenues are low. That is why we have established censorship, and those who have the lowest pensions or benefits have not lost the supplements. This law, and this here in the opposition bench, is very much forgotten, has been aligned with the social partners. For the first time in Slovenia it has happened that some law, which is actually now, by its influence, austerity if you want to cut into the benefits, has been aligned with the social partners. With both partners in the Economic and Social Council, in the end also with those trade unions that had not previously joined the social dialogue or had their position. That is why there was no referendum requirement. In Slovenia we have had referendums so far on everything possible, on the ownership of insurance companies, on artificial fertilisation and so on. But this was a very important law and there was no such requirement, there was no such blockade, because those who represent the categories that you previously tried to take into the defence were actually involved in this social dialogue because there was coordination and there was an agreement at the end. In a marriage such as this, which interferes with a number of areas just to avoid overcrowding, certain consequences can only occur after it is implemented. Here, too, some effects are now displayed in individual articles that may not have been foreseen. The government is monitoring this and will also make corrections where these effects go beyond what was envisaged in the very purpose of the law, but before the final assessment, it is still necessary to wait a little while and especially to realize that without this law today Slovenia would no longer breathe normally and could prepare for an extremely difficult situation in autumn.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u32	Request for a supplement. Mag. Squire Tavsh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u33	President, don't point your finger at the unions. In the National Assembly, positive Slovenia begged you: "Do not adopt such an important law which interferes with 44 regional laws by means of a rapid procedure." That's when you smiled at us, and the consequences are here today. And the consequences are painful for citizens and citizens. When you're talking about tightening the belt in all areas, I'm asking you who's tightening the belt. Retired. The Minister of your government said that Nova Ljubljanska Banka will recapitalise from its own reserves with the money invested in Kad. It's money from Slovenian pensions. And, Minister, allow me, by this law or by these measures you are causing new injustices. And I don't believe it's a coincidence, because I just don't believe in coincidence. You're causing new injustices. You have reduced your pensions to the victims of Nazism and fascism, not to the victims of communism. You've reduced your pensions to top athletes, not priests. You have reduced your pensions to workers who worked in the former Yugoslav republics, not to those of our workers who worked in Germany for example. And these are the extra injustices you're causing consciously. I believe with a very clear political background. When you talk about saving, President, all you have to do is create priorities. Are Slovenian pensioners, young families a priority or is it NATO a priority? Last week you smiled when you donated half a million euros of Slovenian taxpayer money to Afghanistan. Is that fair?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u34	Mr. Jansha.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u35	If we have now reached NATO, it must be said that half a million US dollars for the Afghan security forces after the withdrawal of NATO in 2014, I think the second smallest contribution made by the NATO Member States. Many countries, even poorer and smaller than us, are making a greater contribution, and many non-NATO countries are making a substantial contribution to Afghanistan's ability to take care of its own security. The context needs to be looked at before operating on these Euros. Those who think that security outside of NATO is cheaper may propose a referendum. Two-thirds of the Slovenians decided on NATO at the referendum, the two-thirds majority, and we have made certain commitments as well. This contribution does not increase, but reduces Slovenia's obligations as regards Afghanistan. When it comes to pensioners, the government has done no wrong. If there is any injustice in our pension system, these injustices have been accumulated in various special laws, outstanding pensions, and so forth. We have 53 categories where special allowances are paid from the budget, but they are not due to the contributions paid. So you have in what people consider to be a pension, but this is not always the case, and a few hundred thousand Slovenian pensioners who have worked full-time have pensions below 600 and 500 euros and have worked for 40 years and women for 38 years. And you have other categories of people who worked half the time and were retired on special terms, and today they have 2,000 euros in pension. We've reached into this part. However, there has also been a set of censorships here, so no one in this category has fallen below this price of 600 and a few euros. Therefore, this law will also have to be viewed in terms of the situation we inherited and the practice we have solved. Not now just watching the effects of this law, how much someone has lost. It is also necessary to consider how much someone had before and on the basis of what, or on the basis of working and paying, or on the basis of something confessed to him.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u36	Request for a debate. Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u37	Thank you very much, again. I will also ask, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that you support me in my request that a broader debate be held on the response of the President of the Government to the meeting of the National Assembly. What the Prime Minister is doing, I say it's a moral gamble. The consequences of the actions of the Prime Minister, governments as a whole are borne by people, citizens and citizens. The harmful effects of the Prime Minister's actions are also visible from the outside, according to the Financial Times today, Janez Janša exaggerated the story of the seriousness of Slovenian finances. I'm afraid we're all going to pay for this job. It is sad that when the President, in response to my question, tried somehow to justify the government's doing around this megabar law, he first began to justify aid to Afghanistan. It's not Nate's commitment. We weren't forced to give half a million euros to Afghanistan. However, we are committed to taking care of citizens and citizens of our country, those who have been deliberately wronged by the law on the balance of public finances. I believe that this is a very clear political background that you, by the way, announced in 2008. I'll say it again, you've reduced your pensions to the victims of Nazism and fascism, not to the victims of communism. You have reduced your pensions to top athletes who have brought the reputation and name of Slovenia to the world, but not to priests, and not least have you reduced your pensions to workers in the former Yugoslav republics, but not to our workers who have worked elsewhere. And allow the Prime Minister to better understand how serious and painful the situation is or if you want it to be. The letter from Dr Rudolph, who allowed me to mention his name, writes: "After the completion of the Technical School in Ljubljana in 1949, I received a decree from the Republic of Slovenia that I must help the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Kreka Lignite Mine against my will. It was not possible to appeal against this decision. I retired in 1995. Last month, I received a notice of a reduction in my pension because I was forced to work in Bosnia as a Slovenian citizen for 51.53 euros. In view of all of this, I have been punished twice, which is humiliating, unfair and immoral."
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u38	A coalition question is still on the table. Mr Michael Prevc, Slovenian People's Party, will set it up. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u39	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ministers, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government! After we have managed in recent months to stem the unrestrained trend in our country's indebtedness, and at least by force to stabilise public finances, when another package of laws that we hope will help the economy indirectly or directly, when all the forces are geared towards preparing for the rehabilitation of the banking system, which is an essential foundation for economic growth, citizens and citizens expect more from us. They want to know what went so wrong and where we found ourselves in a situation where we have to take such drastic measures, which are also taking some of the rights that have already been acquired, a hard-earned supplement and more. Above all, they want to know who these key individuals who have abused their positions have taken such irresponsible and reckless actions that the whole country is now suffering from the consequences of their actions. We are well aware that the exhaustion of Slovenian companies, catastrophic business decisions mainly in state-owned companies, is also driven by billions of bad credits from Slovenian banks by specific individuals, specific names that have so far not been responsible for their decisions. As a result of the fact that we have rarely received a timely and fair epilogue in the field of economic crime, citizens and citizens no longer have any confidence, not in politics, not in its mission, not in the government, not in us, Members and Members, not in the country. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. President of the Government: What measures will the Government take to carry out more audits and open more investigations into irresponsible and illegal conduct in the past in the field of economic crime, corruption and financial fraud? What can we expect from amendments to the judiciary legislation to allow for faster and more effective procedures from the indictment brought to the final epilogue in the form of a judgment rendered? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u40	Mr. Jansha.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u41	Thank you very much for asking. Not only you, but also the Slovenian public, is very convenient in asking these questions, especially at a time when it is clear that at least partially the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks with tax money will have to be carried out in one way or another. In many living generations there is still a memory of the first rehabilitation in the early 1990s, when billions of then branded in Slovenian banks were missing, when we covered it by taxpayers from their own pocket, but no one was responsible for those holes. On the contrary, most of the people who blamed those holes continued to drill and dress in Slovenian banks. And today we are back before this situation. It is not exactly the same, much or a significant part of poor investments or bad credits are simply due to the fact that many of the companies that hired these loans were no longer able to repay these loans because of the economic crisis, they went bankrupt, they failed without having any ownership manipulation or similar. Of course, many credits were granted, and these are also largely known stories, based on mutual knowledge, customerism, on the basis that someone raised the phone and that someone on the other hand granted a credit without insurance, without costing those millions anything real today, which could be cashed as a claim. And these cases must be taken very seriously by the competent authorities and, in my opinion, also as a priority, because they are certainly priority cases at the moment. In Slovenia, this is only partly in government jurisdiction, which is preparing amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, where deadlines will be reduced and where the investigation can be more effective, but it is still the main burden on the shoulders of those institutions that then carry out all the work together. One such institution is the State Prosecutor's Office. Under the law, the Attorney General should set priorities for the prosecution of crime in Slovenia by January this year. That didn't happen in January, but it happened in 27. 6. 2012 and the Attorney General set three priorities a week ago. Firstly, the prosecutions will focus on crimes where the rights of workers and vulnerable groups are severely violated, which is fine. Second, where the perpetrators are public function holders, which is also fine. Thirdly, where the conditions for temporary insurance and confiscation of assets of illicit origin are met, which is also correct. But among these three key priorities of this first one, which I think should be, it is not. The absolute advantage, or at least among these priorities, should also be the investigation of crimes that cause large gaps in our financial institutions today. We therefore appeal from this city to all those responsible to realize that this problem is being complemented by these priorities and that work is also being taken seriously. Without this, I fear that this government, not this national assembly and not other institutions in the country, will have no moral weight when they take the measures necessary to remedy our financial system. In view of what has been said a little earlier, our problem is not what the Financial Times says, the Financial Times also said yesterday that Europe’s main problem is Germany, not Greece. Let's see who can do it! Our problem is what's actually missing in our finances, both in public and in banking. That's our real problem, and that's why we're gonna get a headache. Solutions need to be drawn up to solve this problem. Identifying responsibility here is a very important part of this solution. If this time Slovenia is unable to identify individual responsibilities for this situation and is also individually sanctioned, then you or your successors will be able to again before the same problems, only a few billion more will be missing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. We are now moving on to remedying the backlogs, so to speak, of the parliamentary questions raised at the 4th meeting of the National Assembly, which were not answered. Of the two ministers with such backlogs, there is one today, Dr Šuštaršič, and he will answer the unanswered questions of Mrs Patricia Šulin and Mr Mirko Brulc at the next meeting of the National Assembly. The same is true of the question put by Mr Jožef Horvat, which was raised by Dr Šuštaršič and Minister Viszak. But he will be the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs of Mag. Andrej Vizjak answered two questions raised at the previous meeting. First, on the question of Mr Jožef Kavticnik concerning the establishment of long-term care. Please, Minister Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u43	Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. As you are aware, long-term care or the establishment of a comprehensive long-term care system is also a coalition contract task. The Coalition Treaty also specifies the direction of resolving this issue. In the coalition we see that the system of institutional protection of the elderly is relatively satisfactoryly resolved, that there are still certain shortcomings, gaps, but it is easier to address them, that the key problem is the key gap of this system in alternative forms of long-term care for the elderly, especially those related to non-institutional forms, in the form of assistance at home or with various other forms, when the older person is at home, in his environment and in one way or another offering assistance and services according to the needs he needs. The preparation of the relevant legislation governing this is a priority and is under this year's programme. Therefore, the tasks began in May, when we also had quite a few professional discussions on the subject. We have also harmonised the origins of the law and it is also agreed that this legislation takes place in parallel with the reform of health legislation. It is also very important to set up an adequate long-term insurance system, which is highly linked to insurance and to health insurance, as well as to pension insurance, and this year will lead to coordination in the framework of this Interdepartmental Working Group, which is also preparing for the reform of the health system. Of course, the key problem with this long-term care is not to design measures and apply them properly, the key problem is to provide financial resources for these measures and therefore there is still much to be done with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health. If I snore. The reform of this legislation is intensive and the solutions will be comprehensive, but more insurance systems are being recast than just a partial measure, which usually only partially solves the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u44	Mr. Kavtičnik, a request to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your answer, but just before that we listened to the Prime Minister, who said it was too little if we are aware that some problem is important are actions. That's exactly why I'm asking you: When do you intend to put the law into procedure and how do you plan to provide adequate funds? You said yourself that the problem is financial resources. Of course, we are particularly aware of this now that the Public Finance Balance Act has intervened and we see its consequences. You probably didn't know or expected what the consequences would be for pensioners who receive extra-standard pensions – I ask you whether there are 600 euros and a few more extra-standard pensions to reach out with a cut in these pensions. And as a result, we will find that the pensioners who are left alone will not be able to pay home, let alone family helpers and so on. I'm specifically interested in: When do you intend to put the law into public debate because we know that the law was in a public debate in the previous term? Do you mean the one who was to complement, throw? How do you plan on solving these problems that I mentioned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u46	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u47	Thank you very much, for that additional question. Very specific. The law will be prepared in the second half of this year and we plan to deal with this law in the government at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u48	Thank you very much. We have another outstanding question for the Minister of Vision, Mrs Tamara Vont. The Minister will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The question referred to the work or employment of foreigners on the basis of work permits, in particular girls and women from South America or more precisely from the Dominican Republic. The question was how many such work permits have been issued by the Ministry in the last ten years. Together, from 2005 to 2012, we have the data issued by thousands of 12 work permits, namely: in 2005 53, in 2006 76, in 2007 150, in 2008 194, in 2009 189, in 2010 127 and in 2011 173 and this year up to 31.5. 50. We're only talking about the Dominican Republic. But we could also go to South America, and it's just a slightly larger number, obviously most of these countries go. It is interesting, for example, that Ukraine is one such specific country, with working permits issued here in 2005 652, then a year later, in 2006 624. Then it fell a little bit, and this year it was until 31st. 5. 69. The second part of the question concerns whether other public authorities have also recognised that they are being abused. Yeah. We have been warned by the authorities, especially by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, about the possibility of trafficking in human beings. The case is also investigated by the competent authorities, the Ministry of Labour or the Employment Office, which is not responsible for investigating the offences of trafficking in human beings, by other competent authorities. That is why we are also preparing solutions that would more radically plague the general arrival of this specific workforce in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u50	Request for complete response. Mrs. Tamara Vont, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Of course, other authorities are dealing with this, but the authorities are the ones who issue the work permit. Now I'm wondering if you're thinking about limiting the employment of these women to say, of course, it's women, and we usually know what kind of work it is. Are you also thinking about this measure in the light of the warnings of the ICZ and given that, in fact, the police have been pointing out this problem for some time now and that, of course, the warnings from the European Union come after all? So I'm interested in: Is one of these measures also possible to limit such work? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u52	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u53	The shortest part is yes. However, the Ministry considers that this is not a systemic and not a proportionate measure. It's about as if we wouldn't build a house if we were afraid it would burn. We need to build it fireproof. In fact, when employing this specific workforce, the relevant authorities must prevent such abuses or abuses from occurring, but not actually restrict their arrival and then do not do so in cases of abuse. I would like to point out that we also intend to intervene in general by limiting the issue of work permits. I also think that the time of crisis and other open-ended pressing issues are opening the way for us to temporarily make this radical restriction or end, but of course this is not a long-term systemic action.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u54	Thank you very much. We turn to the questions raised for this meeting. First of all, the question will be posed by a colleague, Dr László Göncz, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Zvonko Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u55	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Question to Minister Černač and Minister Bogovic because the question is addressed to both ministers. This is a question that has recently been very present in the public and is a source of spirits, especially in the eastern part of Slovenia, especially in the Prekmurje or Pomurje area. This is a question related to the intensive extraction of gas, the technological process of hydraulic crushing hard-to-access stones called "fracking" method in the area of Petišovci and surrounding settlements. I believe that, due to the lack of interpretation and information on this gas extraction method, this has raised many questions and uncertainties in the public. Residents are extremely concerned about their safety and are also concerned about negative environmental impacts. It is not clear whether the assumptions are justified. That is why I am asking the two ministers – perhaps the third but procedurally not, Mr Žerjev, Minister of the Economy – about the issue of the technology in question and the related negative effects on human health or the environment. In this regard, a question was also raised by the municipality of Lendava in writing and by the competent agency. I received the latest answer to the Lendava question from the agency today, and unfortunately these data are not encouraging. I would not now read what they wrote in the context of the agency, but what I am talking about is justified somewhere. The undeniable fact is that the method of hydraulic fragmentation in some countries, such as France, is prohibited and a moratorium on the application of this method is adopted in Germany. In my view, no research has been carried out prior to the planning of the project on the appropriateness of such a gas pumping method, in particular with regard to the specific environment – the Pannonian space. In terms of maintaining healthy water resources, there are also many uncertain issues. That's why I'm asking: Are the Government or its competent institutions aware of the method of hydraulic fragmentation for the pumping of gas in the petišev gas area and the environment, in particular in view of its possible negative effects on human health and the preservation of the clean environment and water resources? I'll ask the second part of the question later. Thank you very much for coming.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u56	Both ministers have five minutes to respond. Who's going to answer? Minister Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u57	Thank you very much for that question. Nice greetings to all present! This is a large part of technical questions, so that this answer will also be a little more technical, and this is based on the report of the mining inspection. Hydrological fragmentation, as mentioned above, is a technological process or one of the processes of hydrocarbon extraction by pumping. The use of the hydraulic fracturing technology process has been used since 1960 in the extraction of hydrocarbons in north-eastern Slovenia. So far, the effects on the state of the water layers above the hydrocarbon bed are not known due to hydraulic fracturing or fracturing. In 2011, this process was used in the PG10 and PG11-A wells, and the drilling of these wells began and was carried out in the first half of last year, a good year ago, and the drilling and fracture testing was carried out in August and September of the same year. The production of wells was carried out on the basis of validated RPZI mining projects: Pg-10;03/10 MK-RLP and RPZI: Pg-11; 04/10 MK-RPL. The continuation of mining works in wells, such as garden equipment, purification and fragmentation, continued on the basis of confirmed mining projects, which form part of the projects already mentioned. Different technical procedures were carried out on those wells before the technical hydraulic crushing procedure was carried out as an integral part of the pumping method. Procedures include different works, from remodeling wells, shootings, measuring density and composition of layers and other technical activities. All these procedures have been determined by approved mining projects. The implementation of all procedures shall be documented in the form of reports. Also documented is the use of fluid and additions of fluids for fractionation. In the light of the documents examined so far, additives not harmful to the environment have been used and the measurement of well tightness and fragmentation has not shown any effect on water layers. It should be noted that, although preparations for drilling work began at the end of 2010, drilling only took place in 2011 after the introduction of the amendment of the Mining Act, which established in the field of certification of technical documentation for the implementation of these parts certain new provisions whereby the technical documentation for the implementation of works on these wells is consistent. All works were carried out with the consent of the mining rights holder. I can also say that the Slovenian regulations regulating the field of hydrocarbon production by pumping and, in this connection, environmental protection are in line with European directives. The current rules provide an appropriate basis for action to protect the environment and safety and health in a specific environment. At the end of this period, let me explain that the rehabilitation of the oil and gas field in north-eastern Slovenia is being completed according to the programme adopted by the State.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u58	Thank you. Would Minister Bogovic continue? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u59	Nice hello to you all! During the time available, I should like to continue here, where Minister Cernac concluded that the legislation in force is such that environmental consensus is necessary for daily quantities of 500 000 cubic metres and that there are smaller quantities. For this reason, our ministry, the Ministry responsible for the environment, has not been involved in these procedures. This question has recently been raised in writing by your fellow Member of the Mag in a similar context. Juden, that's why we've been preparing at the Ministry and trying to get to the content itself. This content was explained today by a colleague of Montenegro about these powers. It is true, however, that what is clear from both your question of the mission and from the question of the mission of Mr Jewish that this is an issue which has certain shortcomings in the regulation. This is also recalled by the study produced by the Directorate-General for Internal Policy of the European Parliament in June last year, which speaks, in a way calls for better regulation both at the level of the European Union, where even the idea of adopting a specific directive for this area and also implementing laws at national level is the idea. This issue, as we have also found in the environmental work, has been legally resolved so far. There are still a number of issues in both the public and the professional circles.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u60	Request for a supplement. Dr. Gonch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The answers indicate that these fears are justified. In particular, I would point out that, with regard to the quantitative formal problems of authorisation and consent, it was not necessary, but it certainly does not exclude all the doubts I have raised. That's why I'm asking: If these negative effects prove to be present, what can actually be done? The Environment Agency's response follows among other things, and this is acknowledged by the fact that information is already coming on negative experiences that are harmful to the environment and human health and near the gas wells often report pollution of groundwater with methanol and potassium chloride. This information shall be provided by the competent agency. As I stated in the letter, we do not want to be dramatic about this matter. That's not what this is about. It is that every economic opportunity and opportunity is important for both the environment and the wider society. But from the point of view of people's health and environmental threats, it would certainly be necessary to say bob beans because, in response, at least now the ministers are responsible here, it is not clear that all those claims which testify, regrettably, about the negative impact of this intervention on the premises or on this project as a whole could be rejected. I'm asking you one more time: Who will act if this proves to be a concrete negative impact on the environment and on human health?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u62	Mr. Blackach, supplement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u63	Thank you. It is mainly environmental issues, so that I will be very brief in this work and I will leave more time to my respected colleague. As far as mining rights are concerned, these projects run on the basis of appropriate permits, so that there will be no doubt about it. They have also been running for some time and are running within the framework of the rehabilitation of individual wells. However, as you have already found, experience from the surrounding area shows that it is important to be careful about these things. Some countries have even banned this method, which means that the situation and the situation should be monitored and, in an appropriate manner, if experience shows that there are individual derogations, action should also be taken. However, above all, in this environmental context, I propose that an additional part of the answer be given by my colleague Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u64	Also Minister Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u65	I think we all have one serious problem together. I would like to allow myself to read some of the summaries in this report, which was made by the European Parliament and which is also talking about the dimension of the problem, so I think it will be difficult today to adopt some conclusions at this meeting, and I am sure that the Government will need to discuss this and also agree on an ongoing follow-up on the part of the inspection services and, on the other hand, I think there will be some other necessary answers. In these recommendations, let me read first: "There is no comprehensive directive representing the European Mining Law. Publicly accessible, comprehensive and detailed analysis of the European legal framework concerning shale gas and oil from low-porous stones is not available and should be prepared." The last indent confirms this: "Because of the complex nature of the potential impacts and risks of hydraulic fractures on the environment and human health, the development of a new directive at European level should be considered, which would fully address all issues in this area." One of these things they warn in the meantime is that the quantities that are written down and summarized in our legal order are also very high. Therefore, one of these recommendations states exactly whether there is a need for reconsideration. I must say that we will also monitor this data and the whole area in a thorough and ongoing manner with the assistance of the said Environment Agency. However, I estimate that in the coming days, weeks, heads will have to be put together at the country level and further answers will be given to the questions that are being asked to all of us. Unfortunately, at this point, I just can't add what I just did.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u66	Mr Matevž Frangež, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, will ask the next question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u67	Dear Minister, our humanity is measured not only by our attitude towards human beings but also by our attitude towards the environment and the animals. The latter are the subject of my question today. Some years ago, the Slovenian public was shocked by some of the extraordinary cases of animal torture, which encouraged some of the enterprising volunteers to start drafting an animal protection law to provide a more appropriate regulatory framework for the appropriate response of society to prevent such inhumane and inhumane behaviour. It is particularly worth mentioning that the professional basis for amending the law was one of the graduates of the University of Maribor, which was later supported by many famous Slovenians and Slovenians in a civil initiative, and among them the driving force of Jadranka Juras, which managed to collect over 31 000 signatures of citizens and citizens of Slovenia in support of such a change in the law, which should better protect animals living in our society. Today, we can see that the inter-departmental coordination within your ministry is in the process of drafting another animal protection law, with minor amendments and the introduction of European directives. However, the review of these issues has made it clear that 41% of the law is changing, which I believe cannot be a minor amendment to the law. This law is also supposed to be at the public hearing, but a vague view of your ministry's website shows that public treatment to the eyes is very well hidden. Mr Minister Bogovic, as a man, as a mayor, as a Member, you have considered a man who has always sought a calm dialogue, a conversation with the various that you have reached a high level of consensus. I wish that this reputation, which many of us appreciate, is justified now as a minister. That is why I call on you to draw particular attention to the Civil Initiative, which has collected 31 000 signatures of citizens and citizens in its proposal for a law. I respectfully ask you, Mr. Minister, to answer me: At what stage is the law drafted by the Ministry? Do you think it is possible to harmonise the two bills? Are you going to stand up for this as a minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u68	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u69	Thank you for that question. I can say that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Animals is currently in the intersectoral coordination phase and dealt with at the Office of the Government of Law. During the period from 24 April to 25 May, according to the proposed one-month period, the proposed law was published on the e-democracy portal in accordance with the prescribed procedure. At that time it was also possible to make suggestions and comments. Many of these proposals have been and have also tried to include as many of these proposals in the law as possible. I must say that, at the beginning of this mandate, I also attended the Animal Protection Council, where this law was dealt with. I apologize for forgetting the name of the distinguished gentleman from Maribor who runs this world, and together with the Veterinary Administration coordinating the procedure, the entire round of other stakeholders and representatives of civil society, who were coordinated and represented through one of the colleagues from Primorska there, to try to reach the best possible compromise on this law. Therefore, the indications that the matter has been prepared to be hidden from the eyes cannot be accepted and I hope that it will also prove to be so. However, there is a perfectly normal procedure, no short-term or urgent procedure. The objectives of proposing this law are, as I have already said, to comply with European legislation on animal protection against experiments, to improve the registration of dogs and to prevent illegal trade in dogs and cats, to protect animals used in events and recordings, to better define the activities of societies operating in the field of animal protection in the public interest, to provide funding for the provision of public service for abandoned animals and other activities, to ensure the welfare of pets at the municipal level. The law follows these principles. The proposed changes and additions are based on the principles of responsible ownership and humane treatment of animals, the prevention of animal suffering, the provision of adequate information to stakeholders, the optimisation of administrative actions, the reduction of administrative burdens, the sanctioning of infringements. If I snore. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act is normally in the process of drafting the draft and, after coordination within the ministries, has come into the stage of inter-departmental coordination. All previous procedures, as I mentioned, have been carried out. The interested public had the opportunity and a number of comments were also made by NGOs and the preparers tried to take these comments as fully as possible. Among the writers of this law, these people also sat at the same table.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič will ask the next question. I didn't know you were going to ask for a supplement. I'm sorry. Here you go, Mr. Frangezh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u71	It's okay, Mr. President. I am pleased that the law will be proposed for consideration following a regular procedure. This would significantly improve the statistics of this government. However, I hope that it will give the National Assembly the opportunity to include many of the very relevant proposals of the civil initiative, if the government does not follow them further, with the agreement of this national assembly. Mr Minister, the picture of whether the procedure for public examination of the law on the protection of animals, its amendments and additions has been carried out correctly or not is, I fear, different. In particular, I call on you to take further into account the views, opinions and very relevant proposals that will lead to more effective animal protection, which in all cases are considered to be a weaker article, with an appropriate social regulatory framework, and that you personally, as Minister, are committed to further coordination with this civil initiative. As it is said, it is not just a group of citizens and citizens with relevant proposals, it is a group of citizens and citizens who, in their ambition to make a decisive change in preventing torture and protecting animals, have supported more than 31 000 citizens and citizens. Therefore, this civil initiative is, of course, to be dealt with with with with by a specific legitimacy. Minister, I ask you to pursue further coordination, to re-examine their proposals, especially those, and I fear that there are quite a few that have not been taken into account in the current course of things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u72	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u73	I already said in the introduction that I had been involved at the beginning when one of the first meetings of the Veterinary Administration was together with the representatives of the plural group and I received this presentation of the state of the law. At that time, we decided, given that this procedure has been a long time, that it is a compulsory normal procedure and that they should examine all the remaining open dilemmas together and open a public debate. Unfortunately in Slovenia, even if we open a public debate, it is sometimes impoverished, in the case of such a civil initiative in the background, certainly not, then it follows this necessary coordination and the formation of this law. With the main solutions that I mentioned earlier, it may be possible to mention some additional ones that are also covered by this law, namely the prohibition of worship without stunning even for the purposes of ritual worship, the introduction of the possibility of prescribing municipal fees for the purposes of financing activities, the protection of abandoned and pet animals, the introduction of detailed additional conditions for societies operating in the field of animal protection in the public interest, the granting of powers to the municipal authorities to control the physical protection of dogs in public places and the labelling of dogs. It's a whole series of these things that came up as open questions. In this part, as I have already said, and now in inter-resor coordination and in these further procedures, we will continue to pay attention to these comments that will be made in this parliamentary procedure. However, in any case, as I have already said, there is a normal procedure in which there is room in Parliament for an exchange of views sufficiently broad and often open. I hope we have a happy hand at the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Branko Marinič, Minister for Infrastructure and Space of Mr Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u75	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Nice hello to you all! Dear Minister, Mr Zvonko Černača, my question is about some clarifications and your views, the plans of your ministry, which you highlighted at your presentation as a priority when you presented yourself to the Home Committee on Infrastructure and Space. Your main emphasis was on the need to invest all knowledge, energy and the available financial resources from the state budget, as well as from European funds, in public rail infrastructure. Undoubtedly, it is large-scale projects across the entire network of Slovenian railways, but today it has already been raised on the question of the Prime Minister, by the way, what is going on on the second track or the modernisation of the railway line at the Divač-Koper section. We are aware that this is an important transport corridor, which your ministry and you personally see as a priority. In this regard, I ask you: What are the current activities of your ministry regarding the modernisation and modernisation of the Divač-Koper railway section?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u76	Here you go, Minister Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u77	Thank you very much for that question. Even for the opportunity to say publicly what I have said a thousand times, but apparently some do not want to hear what the minister says and repeatedly repeat the same mantra that they have written in some brain cells, even though they themselves know it is not true. It is true, as you said, at the hearing, that in the context of the development of transport infrastructure is A1 and 1A, as you wish, the priority is to modernise railway infrastructure. After taking over the station, I have faced the fact that the situation in this area is actually the most catastrophic, as far as the level of preparedness of individual projects is concerned. I would really like to hear from some of those who have already spoken about this issue today to tell me one of the major projects that has been implemented in this area in the last three years to be heard. He's not here! But what we will do in these years, in this mandate, would not be so problematic here, will have the greatest impact in the next two mandates, not in this. What will be most visible will be visible after 2013 and 2014. The problem we have today is that this timeline, which has been delayed for the past three years, poses a real risk of being bypassed by many traffic corridors since 2020. As a result, we are forced to hurry, and there is no dilemma as to what we must do. And that's why I'm very disturbed by some nagging about how now the Black Graver of the second track, or the government, is taking the second track to the blind track and so forth. And also public presentations that are far from what it actually says and stands in individual documents. At least what is expected of the highest representatives of the people, namely Members, is that they know at least the strategic documents of that country. Especially those who have been sitting in these benches for a long time. And Divaca-Trist is one of the projects that has not happened today or yesterday, but has been in these strategic documents for many years since 1996. Because it's part of a more important corridor. In this introductory work, I did not directly answer the question to the honourable Member of Marinic, who asked me this question, because I know that all these old people know, but I took this opportunity not to resent this opportunity to answer many others, who I believe you know that, and deliberately deceive the public with the wrong information. Dear Members of the Social Democrats, you had a minister for three years, who was your minister, who, at the time of handing me over a question, which is one of the concrete projects I can take into my hands and start this year, said: "The second track. This is a project you can take out of the drawer and you can start doing it." Shall I read to you the report of the commission he appointed himself? On 7 January 2011, around this second track, a group was named, of course, in addition to all others, who were very heavily paid around this project. It was led by Mr. Jadran Bajec. This is the gentleman who has been on the Coast for some time, the Councilor of the Social Democrats. I don't know if it's still there. And this gentleman is at the conclusion of the work of this commission, which has completed its 20th work. 12. In 2011, he noted, "because of the uncertainty in liability for deadlines and the cost and financial framework, the project is seriously at risk. In my opinion, the Ministry of Transport will have to determine whether, on the basis of the expected deadlines for completion by 2020 and the cost of construction of Slovenia, the second track still needs and is capable of carrying it out." This was signed by Mr Jadran Bajec by the former Minister of Transport, appointed to accelerate the activity of placing the second track in the space and obtaining appropriate permits. Much more is written in this document, much, but there is no time to read it. In short, it is not the Black Bell who, as some media have written, is supposed to lead the second track onto the blind track. However, after a thorough review of all infrastructure projects, we found that we have an extremely serious problem in this field of railway infrastructure and that this, respected, is the least in the connection of Divac-Koper and that this situation is said to be the capacity to increase the trans-shipment capacity that Luka Koper will need not after 2020, but after 2017, to settle in a different way. And that's what we're gonna do. However, in order to have great, great problems doing everything else we have to do if we want to maintain our strategic advantage, which Slovenia still has for once, within the fifth corridor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u78	Procedurally, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u79	Dear President, we will probably both agree that this was an abuse of the question. The Minister himself admits that he asked the MP to answer to someone, and I don't even know who, because I didn't have a minister in the previous government, and I don't even know how we're talking about this right now. Whether we will have parliamentary questions to the Minister and the Minister to answer to the Member who has asked the question whether we will have telephones inside this small space or whether we need to change the rules of procedure and discuss how we will ask the questions of Members. I just don't agree to this institute. Especially when he admits it, if at least he did it to a fine minister, just as he did, as some have done before. But it looks like we can't even get through this. That is why I ask the President to intervene when necessary in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I don't think it was a question of the mission, but there was some kind of exposition in force, in distress or whatever it's called.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u80	The question referred to the second track, I listened attentively to the answer, and it also referred to the second track. In his response, the minister said what he wanted to say. That's the kind of bang I've had so far, and I don't see any particular problem with it. However, the Minister has also heard your comment and I believe that he will also physically turn to Ambassador Marinic when he responds when he completes his reply. Here you are, Comrade Marinic, a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I am sure that if the services of the National Assembly find that my question is contrary to the Rules of Procedure, then I probably would not be given the opportunity today to ask the Minister about the content I am asking. With regard to the answer, Minister-in-Charge, I would like an additional explanation for your first part of the response. In view of the fact that you are planning to amend spatial legislation, which has been repeatedly exposed in the past as one of the cocoons, which prevents and prevents preparations for all activities related to the second track of Divac-Koper from going faster and given that some of this legislation is already in the procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to ask you further: Will the envisaged spatial legislation have a bearing on the fact that some of the things that have so far been the reason for these activities to have been slowed down, but that they have some faster momentum and that this change will be able to accelerate the work on the strategic transport corridor with the modernisation and modernisation of the Divač-Koper railway section? Thank you so much for that part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u82	Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u83	Thank you very much, even for this supplementary question. By the way, I didn't abuse anything, I answered the questions as it was asked, and I'm going to answer a little bit more because the answer is part of one broader set. This part of spatial legislation, and in particular the different way in implementing these infrastructure projects, is one that will need to be changed this year if we want the backlogs that have been made in this modernisation to be eliminated in the last three years. Slovenia has more than €2 billion in long-term development plans in terms of modernisation of railway infrastructure, i.e. in the period 2007-2013 and 2015 respectively. Of these, less than 10% of the funds have been absorbed by this year. Last year, the Ministry of Transport invested 81 million dollars in all investments this year, when it is a crisis year and when we save and when we cut the budget from over 800 to over 500 million, we plan to double that amount in investment work. Even more difficult supplies await us in the coming years, because it will be very difficult to provide its own share of approximately EUR billion in funds in two and a half to three years to ensure that we draw on what we have available to modernise this network. The fast track of Trieste and the link to Kopra, Divaca-Koper second track, or whatever we call this connection, are not excluded. It's two completely separate projects. The link to Luka Koper is important for our port and we need to build it in one way or another, not until 2021, as planned in the previous plans, but at least three years earlier, while the rapid route of Trst-Divič is part of the southernmost European East-West railway link, it is a route that has already been included in the national rail infrastructure development programme since 1996, which is the route of the fifth corridor and the sixth priority project of the Community TNT. Furthermore, this route is part of two new corridors within the TNT network, the Baltic and Mediterranean corridors and connects this route from Lyon to Kiev. In this perspective, 30 million funds are available for the preparation of this project, for accommodation, for the preparation of the State Spatial Plan for both countries, Italy and Slovenia. Do you know how many have been exhausted so far, or are we two years before the end or even less? Not even a million euros. One year ago, this story also stopped, and we recently revived it. Next. As part of the modernisation of the entire fifth corridor, we have important and difficult work to do. I appreciate that we will need, if we want to realize and realize it, support for all, support for the whole policy and also for the professional public, because it is a project that is very important for our country and which implies a broad professional and political consensus to implement it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u84	Thank you. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will ask the Minister of Economic Development and Technology a question. Happy Zerjava. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u85	Thank you. I'm not going to ask myself something or something that I already know, unlike the predecessor, and I'm not going to talk about the mantras and what someone has written in the brain cells, but it might be good to hear what psychologists and psychiatrists have to say about it for those who are sitting in here. Dear Minister, Mr. Zerjav: Do you think that the way of managing state property, as your government has chosen, is good for Slovenia and its citizens? How will you ensure that it is legal? We have read several times that the government is in violation of the laws governing our property. Minister Černač gives instructions by mail to the Capital Investment Management Agency, which should be appointed to a supervisory board. Of course, in the Capital Investment Management Act, you can read what the real and legal procedure is and, by the way, this law has just been changed by you, your coalition today, and you are working past it illegally. There's also a complication with Telekom. The government, or minister of Montenegro, wished that the Telecom Assembly would be chaired by lawyer Matos. The Anti-Corruption Commission has told you that this attempt by the government to force the personal lawyer of the Prime Minister and the candidate on the SDS list for the National Assembly and one of the candidates for the Justice Minister in the government of Janez Janša, according to the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, corresponds to the definition of conflict of interest. I haven't noticed any of your responses to all of this, and all of this still applies to our economy. There's also an NLB-related event. I will not repeat the whole fiasco in this regard today, but this is also closely linked to our economy, and the developments concerning the guarantee of TES 6, the fraud, the accusations, the suspension of the Committee on Finance. This also has something to do with our economy. And you're nothing again, no response. I allow the possibility that I have missed any of your statements, but I will be really happy to answer, or at all, you still think that managing our state property is good, and I have to ask if you think it's illegal, given everything that's going on lately, but I'm terrified. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u86	The word is from the Minister of Magic. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u87	Thank you very much for asking. I'm going to answer the question I got from you, and this question is: How will the Minister ensure that the principle of legality is also ensured in managing the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia? Every minister has a duty to ensure respect for legislation in all areas of action, and we have also promised citizens and citizens this before this counter. As regards the management of the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia, the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia, which you well know, which is determined by the Capital Investment Manager, is the Capital Investment Management Agency, and the principles governing these investments: the principle of transparency, cost-effectiveness and responsibility of the manager. The Minister for Economic Development and Technology under that Act has no independent powers, but only powers, which are related to the powers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is also a member of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology. In this respect, legal action has so far been ensured in this area. There are also changes in the way capital investments are managed and managed. Already in the process of drafting this legislation, my concern is precisely what you are asking: to comply with all the rules in force. Particular attention is paid to compliance with the legislation on the functioning of companies, the takeover legislation and the legislation on the protection of competition, which falls within the competence of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u88	Request for complete response. Mag. Alenka Bratusek, please. .
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u89	Minister, I don't know what to say with everything I've said. I've listed the illegalities that have taken place. You're nothing. However, you have rightly found that, as Minister of this Government, you are responsible for all its decisions, whether it be the content of the celebration, the renaming of our barracks or the events in our economy and the management of our assets. But there's something else I thought of. At the last session, I asked you if you still support your restrictive law. You probably know what I'm talking about. At that time, you said that you did not know about the decision taken by the government, which was taken in contravention of this law, in violation of the law. Now I'm asking you: Did you, on the basis of my warning as Minister of the Economy, as the drafter and the first-signed proposer of this law do anything about it? You've been called "a coalition to come out of the crisis." I think you've created an even greater crisis among people, panic and even the promotion of hatred. I don't think it's completely unnecessary. Exclusion will by no means lead Slovenia to where we want it. Only integration and integration can get us better. So once again, I ask you: How will you, as Minister of Economy, ensure that the government acts legally in these cases?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u90	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I don't exclude anyone personally, nor have I ever ruled anyone out. You have to admit that to me. I didn't rule anyone out myself. As far as illegality is concerned, the honourable Member. If you find that anything has gone wrong anywhere, this should be reported to the relevant authorities. That's what I do if I find out. I haven't figured it out yet. We try to do what the laws say. As for your question at the previous meeting of the National Assembly, I will quote you as saying: "Your government has appointed two members to one supervisory council, who previously acted in the supervisory council of society, which is in bankruptcy and has left behind millions, ten million, I think even a hundred million debts." I was wondering who those two members were. One of them's got bad luck and, unfortunately, it's the same name and name as someone who did it. He's never been in any bankruptcy procedure. The second was only a member of one supervisory board of a firm that went bankrupt for two months. You have accused me of something I have not done before, Your Honourable Member. I believe that you will not be able to make an apology, I know that you will not be able to make an apology, but what you did in the previous question of the Member of Parliament when you asked a general question, and then you stuck to this general question in a detail that I could not possibly know about, because these questions of the Members are intended to do so and we get them to ministers earlier so that we can prepare for them, you did what you did, and you wrongly accused me of innocently doing something that I did not do. And these two would also be in accordance with a law that is not in force at the moment, and I still support it, and I think it should apply, because in this case, if this law were in force, today would not be the Calvary of Electrokovina in Maribor, you have innocently condemned me for doing something that is not. In short, even if this law were in force, the two members of the Supervisory Board proposed could run for this Supervisory Board and be elected to this Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u92	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, request a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u93	I did not intend to, but in view of the Minister's latest implementation, I propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly should hold a debate on this. Minister, I'm going to be able to do this and apologize to you for that one member, and for the other, I still think he's being appointed to the supervisory board in contravention of the law. But what I'm terrified of is that you told me at the previous session that as Minister of Economy, you don't know what's going on in the government. This was a decision by the government, so I have not made a decision, and today I will not continue to argue about it, but I really think it is right that we should discuss how our assets are treated, discuss your response, and say that Members should we press criminal charges if the government acts unlawfully. Dear Minister, do you think this is the democracy we wanted in this Slovenia? With criminal charges, we will be dealing with the illegal situation in Slovenia. Thank you so much for such a government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u94	Ms Maša Kociper will ask the Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of the Interior! The public and I, too, had a picture left in my memory when, at the time of your term of office, you assured yourself that police officers should not spend too much time pursuing so-called wealthy crimes. I therefore allow myself to assume that you share the same principled opinion as regards the continuation of the criminal procedure, when you probably agree that both prosecutors and judges, the real courts, should be persecuted only by the most dangerous and most important crimes, or not only in particular. In this regard, I hope you are aware that in our legislation we also know the Institute of Criminal Procedure, this is the resolution of crimes by settlement between the perpetrator and the injured party. The aim of the settlement is much more ambitious than the Institute of Postponed Persecution and Criminal Procedure, as it wants to help participants to remove or mitigate the causes of their dispute, which led to the crime itself. In order to resolve as many minor offences as possible, the District State Prosecutors are concerned with the settlement. In doing so, I find from the reports under consideration on the functioning of the Prosecutor's Office in the Committee on Home Affairs that this issue is not systematically resolved and that the District Prosecutor's Offices have a very different understanding of their obligation. It follows from the data that approximately 700 cases have been dropped annually in the Ljubljana District Attorney's Office in the last three years, even 850 in the last year, while every year between 8 and 15 in the Maribor District Attorney's Office, which, according to a comparable or slightly smaller prosecutor's office in Maribor, is completely incomprehensible. This is also not good financially, as the 2010 report on the prosecution's work notes that the case is settled in the settlement process of EUR 88, which is incomparable to less than the criminal procedure would have been imposed in such a case. However, the incomprehensibility of such a practice also confirms that in most successful settlements this agreement between the injured party and the attacker is also almost 100% fulfilled. That's why I'm asking you: Do you, as now the competent minister for this area, support the settlement institute or what you think of it and how you assess its operation in practice? I also want to know: Does the Ministry, on the other hand, assess the situation in the area of settlement and systematically take care of the development of this institution? Do you think that the settlement is well known by the public and any injured persons and perpetrators who are able to take this opportunity and use it in the event of a procedure? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u96	Minister Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I must say that the question you have announced and sent is as follows: What do you think about the settlement institute under Article 161 of the Criminal Procedure Act, Official Gazette, 32/2012, and how do you assess its functioning in practice? That's an official question I got. I'll try my best to answer all your questions that you've actually asked me. If you're not satisfied, then I'll have to give you a written answer. Yes, indeed, look at the wealth of crime that I spoke about at the beginning of my mandate, and as far as the settlement institute that you're asking about is certainly all the mechanisms that burden the courts. Taking into account the fact that the Slovenian courts are overloaded, it is clear that in the role that I am and also as a citizen, I must welcome all those mechanisms that contribute to making the courts less burdensome and truly deal with the most important issues. As far as the wealth of crime you have mentioned is concerned, I can say that we have already tried to relieve the police with internal instructions in order to ensure that by September 1st, it will be burdened by about 100,000 working hours, which means about 52 police officers. I emphasize, until September 1st. However, as regards the settlement of criminal matters, i.e. the alternative out-of-court resolution of criminal cases, I think it is certainly a matter for resolving the dispute between the state prosecutor and the suspect on account of the crime service. The settlement objective is, of course, an agreement. I have to say that I was involved as an injured person in one such procedure, and I personally have a good opinion on this for a fundamental reason, because this is a case that is settled by the court, settled by the settler, you meet the accused and you can influence it. I will say so, I personally welcome the settlement institute, but I think it is not known enough by people to have to do something about it. It is also the fact that the consensus procedures that we are dealing with also constitute a much greater autonomy of the parties, the parties than those with the possibility of such an agreement. This, on the other hand, is the interest of the State. And if this is the interest of the State, of course the interest of the State is that it does not then result in judicial proceedings and the delaying of these cases. The settlement must also be welcomed from this point of view. As far as those numbers you gave me are concerned. I have numbers in front of me for all of Slovenia, not just Ljubljana and Maribor. I can assure you, it is true, I am sure that the individual prosecutions are serving this institute to a much greater extent, which is the case in Ljubljana and the rest of the prosecutions to a much lesser extent. Therefore, I believe that the situation is simply such that it is likely that the Attorney-General will also have to say something in this area to encourage the prosecutions to serve these institutions to a greater extent. Individual prosecutors even report that they have managed to reach all these settlements in much more complex cases, often in court for several years. And that's good. The fact that some prosecutor mentioned it in Maribor, you obviously got the data from the reports, and you didn't get enough. That's right. In my opinion it will be necessary for the Attorney General to be next to us, because we have limited resources, you must know that, and you must know this, given that you have dealt with this, as far as I know, professionally before, the Ministry through law has quite limited settlement powers. Greater powers or much greater effects can be achieved by the Attorney General, who will encourage prosecutors or prosecutors in Slovenia to benefit more from this institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u99	Dear Mr. Secretary! I think that the question has also been raised very correctly in writing and that it implies only enforcement in oral implementation, and therefore the sub-questions are also strongly linked to your powers as minister, not to the powers of the Attorney General or the Attorney General. In particular, the Ministry is the one that can do much here in particular to monitor, systematically develop and leave certain resources to enable the public, in particular, to become aware of what this institution means. However, I would ask you, within this question, if you can answer and if you have information about the following: How is the current funding of this area – this was not clear to me from the report – and how do you plan to ensure this funding in the future? For I believe that, in terms of overall savings during this crisis, savings in this area can be very large, including financial savings, especially quality in terms of better processing of crime and better satisfaction of the injured. Finally, it is only the hope that, despite less time for police and prosecutors to commit crimes, smaller crimes still remain on the list of crimes to be prosecuted, for if the crime is a crime, it is a crime, and otherwise it cannot be understood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond further.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The Ministry's powers, I believe you know them and at least you knew them better than I do. We have powers in the context of the appointment on the basis of a public call, we continue to have the power to decide on the conduct of proceedings under this law and to ensure legal certainty in the procedure of the State Prosecutors, and we have the authority to manage lists, the register of temporary and permanent residences, the powers of discharge of intermediaries, as you know, and, in part, the control of their work. I do not have any data on settlement funds, nor has such a question been raised, so this part can be supplemented and this part of the answer can be obtained in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u102	Thank you very much. There you go. Procedurally, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. Procedurally, I would like to call upon the President of the National Assembly to withdraw the call of the College, which he called for tomorrow morning at 8 a.m. to discuss the five laws that the Government has apparently sent to the National Assembly today for an emergency procedure. We have already heard warnings today that such a situation in the National Assembly is impossible for normal work. Procedurally, I call on the President of the National Assembly to withdraw the College for tomorrow morning at 8 a.m. and continue to work in the autumn on these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Weber. This is beyond this context of the questions sent. I believe the President of the National Assembly has heard you. Otherwise, we are moving on with the questions of the Member States. The following two will be answered by the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. Andrej Vizjak, first of all, mag. Trudy Cinderella.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u105	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The need for admission of persons with developmental disabilities to work centres is strong in the whole country. Parents of disabled children face daily pressures and the needs of their children with developmental disabilities. Let me give you just one example, an example where there are 13 people with developmental disabilities on the list waiting for admission to the sentry-work centre of Šentjur, the unit of Šmarje pri Jelšah. I am aware that this is a problem at the level of the whole country, so I ask you, Mr. Secretary, What are the measures taken by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in solving problems with the allocation or reception and the possibility of new inclusion of persons with developmental disabilities in working centres across Slovenia? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u107	Thank you for asking. I think that, given the comprehensive answer to this question, there should be some data to give Members an impression on how much and how these people are being taken care of. There are currently 3 000 98 users in the work centres in the management, protection and employment service under special conditions and a further 126 in the institutional protection service. According to the data of the work centres, we currently have 473 users in the waiting line. It can in fact be understood that a large majority of users and potential users are involved. The current number of persons not included according to social work centres is 2 000 770. Thus, waiting is a relatively small proportion of those who do not yet have or do not want this service because their families have different arrangements. Taking into account and implementing the proposals of the National Social Protection Programme 2011-2020, it is possible to increase the involvement of adults. You cited the example of Šmarj pri Jelšah, which is a unit of VDC Šentjur, in which this activity, management service, protection and employment is also carried out under special conditions. It was established in 2007 and the Šmarje unit has a spatial capacity of 30 persons, but it currently includes 14 users. With a capacity of 30, the Šentjur also has two additional free seats. Now the underlying reason is why it's not, let's say, 100% involvement. It's a purely financial matter. In the last two years, due to the lack of additional resources, it has not been possible to implement an additional number despite vacancies. We must be aware that any person involved is a certain financial burden. In recent years I have also seen, as a Member, many proposals, amendments and everything on the budget for this and those infrastructure projects, for this road, for such a solution, including the school, but never before have I seen an amendment that would go in terms of increasing capacity and reducing waiting lines for the work centres. We will try to at least partially reduce these waiting types for next year's budget, but, of course, honourable Members, it is also up to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaž Han, please, you're up.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Mr. Zerjav, Mr. Vizjak! You need to know that I would be more happy not to ask that question today, but. If I look back a little bit, I wonder where the current coalition lost its course, its ideas, its solutions as an opposition, how to solve the economy, the economic situation in Slovenia. Speaking of course, let me find out that the government is only dealing with savings. Saving in health, saving in culture, saving in education, saving on investments, saving and saving. There is nowhere to be seen, dear ministers, those so-sung solutions, ideas, actions you had in store when you were in the opposition. At least that's how we understood you then, distinguished ministers! So I don't know why there's no way for Slovenia to come out of this crisis now that you're in power. There are no measures to regulate the labour market, even though you have announced them, no measures to promote employment, no measures to drive the economy, how to launch investments and, in order to save on average, I have to say that we cannot count on consumption as well. Business bankruptcy continues, and more and more municipalities face the pressures of people, workers who can and can work, who have experience and knowledge and are willing to share it with young people. But what, Your Honor, when they have no place to work and this knowledge to share. If I start with the letter A: Ajdovščina, Primorje, construction company. The decline of references, the capital of knowledge in the field of construction is lost, falling as dominoes. If I look at C: we're letting a cell construction man go to waste, that workers are losing jobs, that workers who have knowledge, who have experience, can't share it further. Similar problems are faced in the Maribor, Premur region, including in Zasav, with the Public Finance Balance Act, you're shutting down the mine closure funds, and as a result, we're going to lose a lot of jobs. Posavia isn't so pink either, and so on. Not to mention the Radeča Paperhouse, where the capital of the knowledge of these workers is not from yesterday and the local community, their leadership, they are trying for everything, but the governments are not from anywhere, I have to specifically exempt Minister Žerjev and Mr Bogovic here, and these two are working in a personal way. Respected, where are the measures to re-apply the capital of the specific skills of workers to start-up companies in order to maintain trademarks and acquired references? Where are the proactive measures for attracting foreign investors? What measures are you preparing in this area, and when will this take place? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The question was addressed to both ministers, to mag. We're eating and we're eating. A visionary. Will you go first? Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Dear Member, I am pleased to be able to do it again today – that is, we had a press conference where we presented new measures of active employment policy – because today I can do it again before this high assembly. In fact, we are introducing some very important measures further, mainly with a view to employment for the unemployed. By the way, what we are effective at is taking over the government, which is that unemployment has decreased in Slovenia. Even this year, unemployment is also declining according to the international methodology, while both in the EU 27 and in the EU 15 unemployment is on the rise during the same period. Let's go very specifically. We have programmes to train unemployed people. This is a very effective training programme in the workplace where the unemployed acquire practical skills and experience in a specific job with a specific employer. A total of 5 000 540 inclusions, 10 million euros is foreseen for this programme. Then we have institutional training and preparation for national professional qualifications. This is also where the programme aims to increase the education structure and skills of the unemployed in order to increase employment. Then we have an important programme to encourage employment of the more difficult, so-called Employment Programme; 2 000 750 people are expected to be involved. This is a 4 000-euro subsidy to employers after employment, €6 million this year and €15 million next year. Then we have the Opportunity programme for me, also dedicated to the unemployed, which provides them with intensive and comprehensive support for work and social reintegration. Purpose of inclusion of 500 people, €2.6 million. Self-employment incentives – 3 000 this year, 4 000 500 next year. We have a new measure, the so-called First Challenge, which will come to life in mid-July this year, aimed at under 30 years of age, co-financed employment of €7 000 250 for 15 months after employment, co-financing for the first three months and co-financing for another 12 months. If we add public works where we want to include about 2 000 300 and 3 000 300 unemployed persons and are allocated to them in this year as much as 23.7 million euros, it would be very difficult to say that we do not have a proactive policy, support for employment in the Ministry of Labour. However, as regards the creation of new jobs, some measures have already been taken, some of them have been taken by your fellow Member, which has now been moved to the fall, as they are proposed to be adopted following an urgent procedure already, but probably Minister Žerjav is more than that.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u112	Here you go, Minister Zerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u113	Thank you very much. It has been said that the government deals only with savings. That's not true. As a first measure, the government accepted the economic burden, as a first measure, a reduction in the corporate income tax, as the first measure introduced 40% of the investment relief, was unlimited. And as a first step, research and development facilitations have been introduced. A hundred percent! These are important measures that have been taken first, before saving, before the Public Finance Balance Act. The government is coming to this meeting and an extraordinary meeting to be followed by 16 different laws aimed exclusively at promoting economic growth. With 16 laws! We're listening here today if the procedure isn't right to pressure, not to work, and so on and so forth. See, the economy requires us to take rapid action and the government has tried to bring measures for economic growth before the July meeting before the holidays. We expect that in the National Assembly we will be hearing about this and that we will be helping – I do not make any difference here if you ask me – the opposition, adopt these laws, finish them, make them better; in short, it will be better for the Slovenian economy. If we open up the topic of foreign direct investment, I do not make any difference between investments; whether they are foreign or domestic, they are all welcome, but we need a real business environment to do so. And if anything, then the government is doing a lot in this area – creating a more competitive business environment, especially for investment – and there is a lot of action in this regard. Here we go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Statistics are a nice thing, but anyone can read it the way they want. You have forgotten, Mr Vizjak, to say that today 30% is less likely to be employed than last June. There are no new jobs, unfortunately you did not say this. Otherwise, I agree with all your actions. But if you look at it, in reality these measures are very poor for people who have recently lost their jobs. In the Radeče congregation, a worker from Radeča, who lost his job a week ago, cannot take any action to take him as his own, so that he can get a new job. That's what I'm worried about. And this active employment that you call it, which we all call it – I don't think it's good. The government doesn't deal enough with companies that go bankrupt and don't have to go bankrupt. With a swing of our left or right hand, we've let too many companies go bankrupt, and I don't think that's a good thing. I miss the operationality of your government, the individuals I value you for not doing anything more. Because you can be operational when it comes to your projects and your municipalities, when it comes to other municipalities, other problems of people, this operation is somehow lost. Dear Mr Žerjav, I agree and this procedure does not bother me at this time, but only by removing administrative obstacles in the economy will it not work. There will also be a need for more money to start the economy. But I hope you'll do your job with the banks. Thank you very much. But I'll give you a chance to answer. I say in advance that I will not demand a debate, I hope that we will have many more in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Zerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u117	This second package to encourage the economy is also supported with some money. I'd be glad if there were more. 377 million, we have repeatedly said that this second package is being monitored. Indeed, it is also supported by ten different calls. Also for foreign direct investment, including for so-called "green field" investments, when the tender is intended only for technological equipment. However, we must not forget the measures taken through the Bank of Sid and through the Slovenian Enterprise Fund. Over Sid, some 100 million euros are still available for development credits and through the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, which offers guarantees for small and medium-sized enterprises, still more than 50 million euros. In short, there's a lot of action. There are also many who are administrative, but you must be aware that some of these measures are key to the problems of the Slovenian economy. Above all, when we talk about construction work, consensus, building permits, these are one of the key obstacles to economic development in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u118	Thank you very much. You too, Minister Visjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u119	Actually, it makes sense what the question is. The question is whether we have an active employment policy programme for a specific case, this is the case in Radeč – I understand. I must say that active policy programmes focus mainly on employment of categories of people who are more difficult to employ, which are more difficult to get to work on a normal basis. That is to say, those who have long been registered in institutions, whether older or young, disabled or otherwise, and whose entry into a normal relationship is difficult. That's why I'm counting it. However, in order to have an active policy programme written on the skin of a company that has experienced bankruptcy and wants to grow on the worse side of bankruptcy, I think that the only thing that can be counted on to encourage initial investment is to encourage foreign investment, which is also possible through the Law on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investments and the like. So I propose to the Member that he connect the specific investors either with the Ministry of the Economy and us, the Ministry of Labour, to see if there is a solution to this concrete project under the existing measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič has a question for the Minister of Finance, who is excusedly absent, but please, ask a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u121	Vice President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Even though the Minister is not with us today, he will hear and respond to the next meeting. I have a question not only for the Minister of Finance, but for all of you who run this country. Even for the President of the Government, this question could be useful and I would expect an answer from his finance minister. So, I have found, as many citizens and citizens, that the source of all the problems of the deepened crisis – I underline the deep crisis, the financial and economic – the secretion of the central protector of the financial system of the Republic of Slovenia; and that is, ladies and gentlemen, none other than the Bank of Slovenia! Days ago, the State, as the majority owner of the New Ljubljana Bank for recapitalisation, ensured that the bank has a level of capital adequacy in line with the requirements of the European Banking Authority. In addition, a thorough review is being carried out in the bank, which is primarily intended to assess the bank’s situation. We all know this situation isn't pink, it's the opposite. You have stated, Mr Minister, that the Nova Ljubljanska Bank will meet the regulatory requirements, while it will take a lot more to start a normal business. The Bank is expected to have around €3 billion in bad loans. The second largest Slovenian bank in the country, Nova banka Maribor, also needs recapitalisation due to poor business. As the competent minister, I ask you: Or how will you exercise the responsibility of the supervisory and management authorities in both banks, both current and former, because of the poor business of both banks? And: Do you think that Banka Slovenije should act more decisively as regulator and supervisor of the banking system, so that recovery would not be necessary and recovery would not occur at all? In each system, it is the task of the security guards to protect the system. Banka Slovenije, as the central guardian of the financial system of the Republic of Slovenia, has failed on the entire line, for which someone should finally not only assume symbolic responsibility, such as permanent practice in our country, but also criminal responsibility. The Honourable Minister and, of course, the President of the Government and all those responsible for the financial situation: What will you do about those who have brought this country into such a financial situation that today we must resolve what we can do? I'm asking you nicely for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u122	Thank you very much. If I understand you correctly, at the outset you pointed out that you would like an oral response to the next meeting. Is that right?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u123	Yes, Madam President, exactly. At the next meeting, I would like an answer, of course, an oral answer here in the temple of democracy, that everyone should hear what and how. There is also Minister Gorenak and those ministers who actually represent the interests [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u124	We understand, sir. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u125	citizens and citizens to act against those who have acted poorly and who have not supervised [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u126	Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music, we understand. It will be included in the next meeting of the National Assembly. You will receive an oral answer to your question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u127	Can you just give me a second?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u128	No, you can't finish. We've made this clear. You want it in writing? It's gonna be verbally classified as it is. Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs. Alenka Pavlič. The question is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franc Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u129	Minister Bogovich, are we flood safe? At one of the meetings I have already asked you how we will ensure flood safety of rivers and storms, especially where this is necessary. I didn't get an answer at the time because you didn't know the subject. I myself know quite a few problems from the local environment where I come from, namely, the Jesenice Congregation. I can tell you that Bel's villain has been for years, not to say nearly 10 years, discussed the stepmother's side of the country. The Civil Initiative received an answer from your ministry last month to call the inspector or to sue the state. That is why I think it is absolutely necessary to look at what you will do with the All-Slovenian flood risk management plan, because rivers have already done many things to our citizens and damage them many times. In April, you signed a contract to ensure flood safety on the Savinja River. That's why I want to know: Where are you going to handle all of this, and what's the real deal? I say that the place and the municipality where the mayors come from the types of SLS will have priority, otherwise I do not believe, because you have already proved too many times that you are a man of word, that you can work and that you have agreed and set goals to the end. Therefore, I hope that you will continue on your way and solve the flood problems in the Republic of Slovenia. I'm asking you: What is the All-Slovenian Flood Risk Recovery Plan, and what is the deadline for this plan?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u131	Thank you. First, let me directly answer the first question, whether we are safe in the flood. No! No! Whether I have enough time to bring these goals to an end and Slovenia will be flood-safe – I fear not, given the duration of the Ministers for the Environment. A little joke, a little bit to start with. The problem we are talking about is not a problem that could be solved by a minister who, within three, four months, would be faced with a problem, but a whole flood safety project must be set up; nor should it be so obvious that ministers regulate the area from which their client colleagues come from. What is the plan of this rescue that is written down? In some ways, it is the implementation of the flood directive, which was adopted by 2007. I am sure that this technical and technical plan will continue, and when I have also succeeded in this area in these few months, at least to some level of knowledge of the problem, I can say that there is a public debate before us on a document called Identifying Areas of Substantial Impact of Floods for the whole of Slovenia. This is a document that is, for several reasons, also in line with the directive, made and made aware of it and will go somewhere in the middle of July – we hope that there will be no evidence that we are putting this into public debate during the summer. At least it has to be thirty days, because it's summer, I've ordered my colleagues to have a minimum of five and a half days. Thus, those who have a little longer leave may find time to look at it in detail during this time. However, it is a very important strategic document, in which the whole of Slovenia, all watercourses are processed in the areas of human vulnerability, from the point of view of population, number of buildings, number of settlements, environmental protection, economics, cultural heritage. It is then a systematic preparation of this map, from which we will also have to decide on the level to which we will prepare this document, because we now need to adopt it by the end of 2013, as well as in accordance with this Directive, to prepare detailed documents for this flood resolution and then to go into implementation. As I have already said, if one of the weighted indexes displayed here presented, which methodology will also be clearly presented in public reading, even in the end for harmful potential under different variants, 30, 40, 50 % It is said that if we protect such harmful potential, there are also some preliminary estimates, where we are talking about 166, 237, 416 million euros. [[...]] This will have to be added, so this is a very large project and by implementing this technical part first, it will then be possible to also clearly set priorities and that we will then have this timetable in the country in the light of the damage, no matter what other criteria. From here on out, it's a big year-to-year maintenance. This year we have secured the maintenance of eight million and a half million. It is planned in the coming years, from 2012 to 2013, nine million, and in 2014 to 2016 we are trying 12 million a year to do with the maintenance measures what is absolutely necessary for the watercourses to be maintained – even as they were mentioned by you to do as little damage as possible. The third part of this issue is also the implementation of these major flood projects, which are also the subject of cohesion policy, and it is also essential that we first make a strategic document to see how much of these projects we can cover through cohesion. Two projects are foreseen for the Cohesion period 2007-2013; one you mentioned, which has already been signed, is the real protection on the Savinja River; the other is in the stage that work on the Drava River can also be started by the end of the year. There are two projects in preparation, which we also assess in terms of the threat – Ljubljana and Celje – as two key points where it is necessary to resolve. The volume of funds is also the largest in order to have a second phase in Savinja, being real dry restraints, and protecting the southwestern part of Ljubljana. These projects also include the anti-floating protection of Železnikov, as well as the previously mentioned Mura and flood protection in Mura. However, as I have already said, from here on this is also the area of education, where education and awareness of people in the construction itself will also have to be avoided in some way. As I already am. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs. Maria Plevčak. She will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr. Janez Šuštaršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. Given that there is no Minister, I would like to take part in the next sitting, in the regular session, in the oral response. The Act on the Conversion of the Capital Insurance and Disability Insurance Company and the Investment Policy of the Capital Insurance and Disability Insurance Company and the Slovenian Indemnity Company contains in its Article 6 a very clear obligation of Kad do SPIZ. Each year, by the end of September at the latest, the Capital Society must transfer EUR 50 million to the SPIZ, which is intended exclusively for the purpose of coordinating pensions. Under the Law on additional intervention measures for 2012 and the Law on Public Finance Balance, pensions will not be harmonised this year. Of course, we expect that when he fulfills his obligation, he will not be obliged to do so. However, I am interested, given that the reconciliation of pensions in 2012 is not: Will these funds be treated appropriately? In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that these funds in the pension and disability insurance communities must remain intact and reserved for the time when pension coordination will be restored. Of course, I expect and believe that pensions will begin to be coordinated in the coming year. We must be aware that the level of pensions compared to the increase in wages – and even more so with the increase in living costs – has been virtually reduced since the end of pension coordination since 2010. Although the reconciliation of pensions to some pensioners brings only a few euros a month, we must all be aware that this means a lot to many. I'm specifically interested in: What about the transfer of 50 million from the capital company ZPIZ? What will be the fate of these funds on the STIZ? Can pensioners finally be expected to reconcile pensions in the following year? For the answer, I think in the fall time, thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Your question goes to the next oral session. Next up, it's mag. Majda Potter. He has a question for the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u135	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! Dr Vinko Gorenak, 17-member Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights, ruled that Slovenia had violated Articles 8, 13 and 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The European Court of Human Rights was established in 1959 on the basis of this Convention on Human Rights. Its task is primarily to ensure that States respect and ensure respect for the human rights and fundamental freedoms of the Convention to their citizens and to everyone within their jurisdiction regardless of gender, race, nationality, ethnic origin or other circumstances. And when a court finds that a State Party has violated one or more of the rights set out in the Convention, the infringement shall be pronounced by judgment. This is binding and enforcement is supervised by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. The Convention shall, in addition to the catalogue of rights and freedoms, establish a control mechanism for the fulfilment of the obligations undertaken by the States Parties. I read from the 2011 State Defence Report. Here we also find information that in 2011 the State Attorney’s Office together had 501 cases brought by this court, and that the claims from the cases in question were for compensation at the expense of the State of Slovenia for 545 million. I have already said that domestic remedies against human rights violations must be examined. These must be effective in both theory and practice in accordance with judicial practice. At the end of this chapter, it is possible to read from the State Defence Report that in 2011 there continued to be a trend towards a reduction in the number of complaints based on the infringement of the right to a trial without undue delay. However, the number of complaints from other infringements increased. This means that because we have found a legal basis there, which is appropriate, the violations are diminishing. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: Have you carefully examined the contents of the judgment? What is the plan to prepare a compensation scheme for the erased? How will an expert group be drawn up to draw up a plan for the payment of compensations erased? I think that everything that is said is in the interest of the idea that the compensation awarded within three months — this first — should be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u136	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u137	Thank you very much for the opportunity and opportunity to talk about this subject again, even though the President of the Government has already spoken about it. But it's a good thing that we talk about this subject more and more often, that people also have a better seat. If I answer these questions first, which you directly asked me in your question at the end, we will say so. The judgment has not yet been translated into Slovenian, which is why, at least I and others, as far as I know, can read it in English and I have done it myself. What the preparation plan was, was your second question. We need to prepare a plan for the preparation of the compensation scheme by 26. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This means that it is likely that within ten or twelve days of the judgment given and received in the English language, you cannot expect this plan to be made. The plan will be made 26. 6. 2013, as in the sentence of the judgment. How will a group of experts draw up a plan to pay compensation – this is your third question. How it will be composed, I don't know, but we will put it together so that the costs will be minimal. In my opinion – at least I will insist that we put this together with Minister Plitchanič and with some experts employed in the state administration in order to carry out this task. As far as this is concerned, the following must be said. The first thing is, Slovenia has a duty to do it by 26. 9. 2012 pays this compensation, so-called intangible damage, worth €120,000. I'm informing you that the proceedings are being conducted by the Attorney General's Office. The State Attorney's Office is also in charge of procedures and until the same date we need to inform Strasbourg of what is with intangible damage. The proceedings will be conducted by the State Attorney's Office. As far as everything else is concerned, however, it must be said that the plan or scheme, as the judgment says, will be prepared in time, as I said, by 26. 6. 2013 Otherwise, the following must be said. Of course, they did not say in Strasbourg, or this judgment did not say that everyone who sued the Republic of Slovenia was also entitled to compensation. Be careful, two of these victims have also been rejected by the court that they are not entitled to compensation, and this means that we will have to make very, very clear in this plan, I stress, who will and who will not be entitled to intangible compensation. On the basis of the judgment, I suppose they were extreme in Strasbourg — extreme from the point of view of the injustices that would have occurred to them. It means that a large part of these potential compensation candidates will also be able to be excluded from this plan. Why? Because those who didn't get it in Strasbourg can't get it either. By this logic, we'll be able to eliminate one part of them there. The same applies to material damage, which we will also be able to prepare in the plan by 26. 6. 2013 There's something else to point out. It shows that there is some public impression that everyone will get 20,000 euros. Sorry, a very similar law has already been passed in this National Assembly for a group of people who have been wronged. They get 1.32 euros a day. Watch out, 1.32 euros a day! I don't think I missed a dime. These are the people who were wronged during and after the war. In other words, someone who spent three years in Dahav or in Rab or something got paid a thousand 500 euros. Excuse me. He's got a thousand 500 euros. Thus it does not show and for me at least the model will be approximately in this context looking and material damage exclusively, solely on the basis of evidence. [[...]] However, all of this will be foreseen in a plan that the government will adopt and prepare and adopt in due time, which is up to 26. 6. 2013 And there's no reason for us to be in such a hurry because for those of World War II, let's say material damage, we've been in no hurry for 70 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Complementary response.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u139	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You said the real year 2013 twice, you said 2014 for the first time. I'm counting on it for laps. 26. Article 26 of the Slovenian Constitution states: "Everyone has the right to reparation..." Because there has been a lot of talk in the public about who should be the one to repay the damage, let me point out that the law has found that the State of Slovenia – in particular, I stress, the State of Slovenia, not the occupying State, not anyone else, not any other country – has committed 25 000 671 injustices by unlawfully deleting from the Register of Permanent Populations. Discrimination has been established and the state has to make amends. It even says the second paragraph of Article 26: "The injured person has the right to claim compensation in accordance with the law also directly from the person who caused him harm." In all these public responses to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, I have not heard anyone mentioning those who caused the deletion, but speak only of those who felt that no compensation would be provided, saying clearly that the laws we have adopted in relation to the deleted do not provide the basis for the payment of compensation, and the European Court has also said what we must do. I am grateful to you, Mr Minister, that you have not now reached the level of those answers that were at the level, 'we will first feed the hungry and then we will take care of the deleted', and that you have not yet shown any pasta. But the fact is that a serious, responsible legal state is also in line with the oath you made here at this table when you became Minister to respect the Constitution and the rule of law, and I hope that you and the whole government will do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, if you please, an additional reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Of course, Article 26, Madam Ambassador Mag. Waste also applies to the material harm suffered by the Second World War, which I have never talked about before. The material victims of World War II are those who are their invaders or who had buildings, houses, factories, and so forth destroyed in the war. The state of Germany has paid for this, and the state of Yugoslavia has wasted this and the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to pay it, but it has been for 70 years. And the State of the Republic of Slovenia, no government, has yet found the money for this. I therefore point out that we cannot and must not, in any way, devote as much attention to the judgment that is being referred to now as it is to it. For a fundamental reason, the budget is also limited. Of course, what I was saying about feeding the hungry first, and so on, will probably hold. The state can't say we won't take that into account, this judgment. That's not what the state can say. We all know that, at least all serious people. However, the country can accept such a plan, which seems particularly important to me, with some normal dynamics since 26. 6. 2013 forwards. Firstly, I said that with some normal dynamics that will not compromise the budget, and secondly, with some normal heights that are proportionate to the damage caused and at the same time comparable to those of people who were, say, in Dachau. It must have been Dachau, I think, a little worse than most wiped out. We must probably all admit this in this national assembly. And there is something else that needs to be highlighted, and we will put this particular emphasis on this. Look, the president already said that they weren't deleted by 2005. Even then, the President of the State of Kučan did not know them. He even said there weren't any. Then they showed up. Once it was clear what was going on in these southern countries. However, it is also necessary to make it very clear that some of the injustices have been committed, and that in the SDS that I belong to, we have never denied and we have also said how the matter must be resolved by constitutional law, and we have also offered material compensation. This would not have happened if it had been adopted at the time. But it bothered me, you know, Madam Member, today I was watching who actually advocated this in Strasbourg. I have nothing against the carrier, this is Mr Bembic, who defended this, I have nothing against many of his colleagues and colleagues. However, it is only among these people that there is someone who is a member of these civil organisations who represent the deleted and then advocates the Republic of Slovenia in Brussels or helps to prepare a defense against it, and I am very much against it. That's what Mrs. Kresalov sent there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u143	In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on this question or on the Minister's reply. Because there was talk in the answer about a lot of things, which I didn't even ask about. In particular, I said that everyone is entitled to compensation, we are talking about the injustice committed by the state of Slovenia, the legal term in the law is deleted from the register of permanent residents. The Minister is still talking about the so-called deleted, as if he does not recognize this fact, which is a judicial fact, in the law. This is what I think is worrying that in this country we are trying to make 25 000 671 poor people guilty of the economic crisis, and that what the Government has proposed in the ZUJF has been adopted before the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, and now we are again to blame. Public opinion has already been voiced against them because you have been very successful in talking about fraudsters, and let us not forget all of these; those who had only the status of permanent residents do not have the right to vote, could not obtain the certificates, could not obtain the apartment under the law of Jasbinski, so that those who had the citizenship were in a significantly better position than those who had the status of permanent residence – and he also lost it! That's what this is about! [[...]] In order to be able once to see something that has been found in spite of different political beliefs, now the constitutional law, which has not been passed, is constantly being promulgated when it is known that it has been proposed to circumvent the Constitutional Court’s decision — this must be said again and again — and because some were convinced that if there is a constitutional law, it is not possible to request a referendum for it. That's the one in the back. The special question is who would Mr Minister allow to name and send to Strasbourg and who would not. This is a particular issue and it is very worrying to hear it from the Minister of the Interior. I don't know what you'll consider me capable of after my term of office and where you'll want to expel me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u144	Thank you very much. We will decide on your proposal in the context of the votes. Now it's mag's turn. Borut Ambrožič, who will question the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u145	Thank you for the words of the President, the greetings of the ministers present and the colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister, my question concerns driving in the natural environment, and allow me to give a few brief explanations at the outset and perhaps to add some further suggestions. Those who have been following this pressing issue for a long time and alerting to current anomalies could say failures or inadequate arrangements in this area could expect, on the basis of the Nature Conservation Act, the Regulations banning driving vehicles in the natural environment, and also the Forest Act, to count the rules and also some others linked to them, to implement an effective control system by all relevant stakeholders, including environmental inspectors, forest inspectors, farmers, naturalists and, at the end or at the beginning, if you want, the police. However, this is not the case, at least in the field more and more interventions into nature or the natural environment have been observed in the form of wild rides with quadricycles, motorcycles, mountain bikes and snowmobiles, since therefore the problem of driving in the natural environment is becoming a year-round problem and not as some want to show it seasonally or, if you want, we can add up the season plus the season and get a whole year of disruptions, thus affecting not only people, in the first place especially animals which are at risk. After entering Slovenia, the EU saw a great increase in the first organised drive, so-called off-road trips, and quadricycles, which are increasingly accessible and popular, have grown. Thus, according to some data in Slovenia, more than 2 000 500 motor sleighs, at least a thousand quadricycles, half of which are registered, and an indeterminate number of mountain bikes and motorcycles, which individuals unfortunately use irresponsibly in many cases in the natural environment. The vehicle, in particular its noise caused by noise, is therefore causing disturbance in some wild animals, which can also have a fatal impact on their survival and development in endangered species. It is also a polluted aspect, as for example, two-stroke motor sleighs are released within an hour into the atmosphere of as much exhaust as a passenger car with a Euro engine of 4 by 60,000 kilometres. That's why I'm asking you: When will you change the rules on driving in the natural environment for quadricycles, engines and bicycles? This is an important environmental issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Ambassador Ambrožič, for this issue, which, as you said at the end, is certainly an important environmental issue and it is also appropriate to regulate this matter, to settle it. They have already been mentioned in the Law on Nature, the Regulation on the Prohibition of Driving in the Natural Environment, which is from 1995, so it is probably time for me to go through different arrangements. The Forest Act, which regulates Article 40, was also mentioned. This issue has already been addressed by my predecessors, and the Ministry of Environment and Space has already begun to prepare for the amendment of the regulation mentioned above. It has been demonstrated in the long-term implementation of this Regulation that it is becoming ineffective. Many of the things that we have not seen in 1995 have been met in recent years and, as a result, this inefficient control, since what was sometimes to be monitored has probably been much simpler than the motor sleigh mentioned today, the quadricycles, which are one of these greatest pollutants, and also those that are particularly affected by private property. The problem is inefficient control, identification of unregistered vehicles, the number of these officials is too small, including the fines currently prescribed, are obviously too low. However, as I have already said, the emergence of new trucks has significantly increased this number and their impact is very high. I think that at this point we can say very clearly that there is also a great lack of awareness of the work of the public – those who do it, because they do it really without a real sense of what they do in nature, what they do with nature, and ultimately they do it on private property, which is also a category that is protected in this country. In view of all this, the Interdepartmental Working Group has already been appointed, which has been tasked with preparing the proposed measures. Thus, a law has been drawn up to deal with this issue instead of the current regulation on legal matter, and a specific law is intended to implement this regulation. It is timely that the law is ready, even in the past it has already been presented to the public, and it will have to be assessed whether we will do so again. At this week's meeting, however, the Government's functioning for the second half of this year is also a normative part of the government's work, and this law will also be proposed in a normative programme for admission or treatment by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u149	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. I will be very happy to follow the steps that this law or its proponents will take. As a complement, I might add this. I come from a place that is in one of the areas that is very under attack on this issue, which is certainly our Maribor Pohorje. The reason lies mainly in his orography, since the inclinations of the surface part are mild and therefore allow you to drive practically everywhere. This is used by motorists or snowmen, who are able to meet them practically in the most peaceful regions of Pohorje. If I touch, remember my previous question, which was linked to the owl's great urn, and I will touch again a beautiful animal that lives right in our area, that is, a wild cock with the Latin name Tetrao ugallus, which is a qualifying species for Pohorje and is also recorded as part of the Natura 2000 network. This is the one that is most at risk because of the impossible situations we are facing. I am pleased, however, that in your answer you yourself have given quite a few thoughts, which I am also citing or, say, an expert in this field. As a solution, I propose to regulate control with more specific powers of the competent criminal authorities, to upgrade all activities by establishing so-called peaceful zones in which there would be no skiers, hikers, recreationals, blueberries, and to consider the mandatory registration and insurance of motor sleds, as well as for offenders to increase the penalties in the driving ban regulation or as you said in the emerging law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u151	As I have already said in article 40 of the Forest Act, and also in the Forestry Department, where amendments to the Forest Act are also being prepared, we intend to go to this area as well, to settle some things, also to make a difference between motocross engine, motor dreamer, quadricycle and mountain biker, if I make it very simple, and it is also going in this direction. However, I can also add to the fact that in 2007 this law was supplemented by this forestry control, and it is for August this year that forest supervisors have tighter control of this area in their plan. For this area, which you mentioned, Pohorje, but also at the time of the government's visit to this region, I am pleased to include a meeting with a group of people who are preparing a plan for the protection of Pohorje and also for the establishment of a national park in this part, where the Natura area is already set up and it is a wider area that you have now mentioned. I believe that this process, which will probably be very difficult to carry out – whether it is impossible to carry out during this 2007-2013 financial period, when funds are planned for the economy at the second ministry. It is therefore the decision to conduct this procedure in parallel: on the one hand, along with local communities, to identify and reach the national park at the final stage and, on the other hand, to implement this infrastructure development programme. I believe that one of the important areas in this work will be this area of awareness and indeed that people will be concerned with what this value is and that we will also respect it in such a way that we do not commit half the barbaric acts that they do. This — we know from experience because our historical memory reaches back — is also done by people who are not expected to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic has a question for the Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u153	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Since Mr. Minister is not present, I will still ask a question. Dear Minister, the school year 2011/2012 has come to an end. Before the start of the new school year, however, I would like to touch on some of the issues of national knowledge testing in primary school. The results of the national knowledge check carried out by students in the 9th and 6th grades of the primary school are an objective indicator of the level of knowledge of the entire primary population at a certain level. Of course, many feel that this can also be very appropriate information on the quality of individual primary schools. Such data bring a lot of benefits, especially to the Ministry, which, together with the holy schools, could join in helping those schools where, over a period of time, they would detect sub-average or worse results of national knowledge verification. The results of these checks could be used by teachers not least than one of the evaluations in an individual case, which could give students a slightly more motivation for good preparation and, above all, a more serious approach to solving national knowledge testing. Therefore, I would like to know what the purpose of the current form of NPZ is – if I give a reduction – such as the current one, because it is not assessed, are not objective results, not published [[...]] In this regard, I ask: Why are there no average success statistics published on the website of primary schools on national knowledge testing by subject and by primary schools? Does the Ministry monitor the results of national knowledge testing and offer assistance to primary schools with an average result? Ter: Has it been considered that the results of these checks could be used as one of the last written grades of a student in an individual subject in the ninth grade? Thank you for your reply in advance and I want a successful job.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u154	Thank you very much. One more question to clear up. Do you want a written or written answer? Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by Mrs Renata Brunskole to the Minister for Infrastructure and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Dear Minister, since you have already given your position in the past as the competent minister for infrastructure and space, I would like to quote him: "In view of the further development of the individual areas in our country and in view of the accelerated contribution to economic growth, the 3rd development axis in both the north and the south is one of those projects which is extremely important for this country and for each environment." On April 16, 2012, you also said to my question that you had already said at the hearing "that we will speed up the procedures, but not at the expense of hitting everything in the environment, and we will do so. I firmly believe that these deadlines for the southern part listed here, October 2012 and 2014, are too long and can be reduced, but it is necessary to approach them rationally, wisely, to take into account all aspects, including financial." And then you said, "This section is entirely worth over €2 billion, which will be very difficult to provide from some private sources. The following financial perspectives remain 2014-2023." I am alone in the report on unfinished strategic projects and in the review of strategic delays in infrastructure projects – discussed at the 27th meeting of the Government. 6th, in the National Assembly we received them on 3 July 2012 – found that unfortunately there is no project on the 3rd development axis. Also in the development goal of Slovenia, which is in this document of the Government, it states: "In the international environment, the development goal for Slovenia is to become a recognizable and reputable country in the world, which we associate mainly with Slovenia's inclusion in important international integrations in recent years." In connection with the international openness and integration of the Republic of Slovenia, the 3rd Development Axis project is certainly also extremely important. That's why I want to know: What is a concrete plan for the ministry's activities to take place with regard to the construction of the 3rd development axis from Koroška to Bela Krajina, particularly in relation to the connecting road in Croatia, which was opened 10 days ago? From Austria through Slovenia to Croatia is just the 3rd development axis of that blind track, as you said before. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u156	Minister Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u157	Thank you very much for that question. Your Honor! It was said that you regret to find that there are no 3rd developmental axis during the strategic delays. Among these strategic delays in the infrastructure area we have included the most important ones, the most in the sky absorbing. If you have looked at the document, you have seen that we have limited ourselves to investments that are important from a strategic point of view of the Republic of Slovenia, especially to the modernisation of the railway network and to individual sections on this network. If you would like to place in this document that you have received in the National Assembly, even the plaza of all strategic delays, then you would have some 10 or even 100 pages of reading only from the field of our ministry. We have not put any of these state spatial plans in place, they are currently running around 70, and I must tell you that there are virtually no delays in all of them. None of them are in the hands, not one of them! We just didn't want to burden you with this extra material. I've told myself many times where the delays are, how they reflect themselves. Even today, I have said several times that the worst delay is that if we do not accelerate individual activities in the field of railway infrastructure modernisation in the coming years, Slovenia will inevitably lose the strategic position it has today. This is the strategic delay that we have recognised as most important and that is why we have placed it in this set of strategic delays that the Government has dealt with recently and where these delays are listed by individual ministries. With regard to the 3rd development axis, I responded in this National Assembly on 16 April and then added this reply in writing on 15 May. As I said, things remain as they were somehow defined: in one part at the end of 2012 and 2013, in the other part of 2014. However, this problem is that this section also needs to be planned rationally and economically, and in those areas where environmental constraints, environmental problems or problems arising from counter-inclusion to a particular part of the space, also to the greatest extent take account of this aspect, if it is possible to take it into account. In the northern part of the 3rd development axis we are somehow faced, but I must say that even in one part it concerns this southern part, that the individual solutions that have been planned in the past may have been too rich in view of the necessary infrastructure modernisation in a particular area; in the northern part mainly from Velenje forward to Slovenia Grade and from Slovenj Gradec to Dravograd. The local communities themselves have pointed out that the interventions planned and the scope of these interventions in relation to the density of traffic are over-dimensioned and should be based on more rational solutions, including for the reason that these projects are being implemented as soon as possible. Efforts are under way in this direction, so that this project is in the northern part at some point of evaluation, which is supposed to say that it will determine the location of this work in the space between the existing highway connection and Velenje and proceed from Velenje to Slovenia Gradc and Dravograd. As far as the southern part is concerned, procedures are somehow, as far as the DN is concerned, more or less in one part at the end. So we are practically in one part of only the finals, the adoption of a regulation on the State Spatial Plan at the government, the accounts at the end of this year or at the beginning of next year. In the second part, of course, the possibility of further verification of the solutions so far in relation to available financial resources. In any event, these are projects that can be implemented in the next financial perspective, which, as you know, starts already in a good year or in 2014.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Do you want a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer, but I'm not entirely satisfied. In fact, it is related to international connections and to the important pan-European corridor from Austria through Slovenia to Croatia and beyond. I think it is of such importance, and you yourself have stated that it would be right to have an answer in this direction. I'm interested in the following. If we look at: South-Eastern Slovenia, Novo mesto Economic Centre, from New Town to White Krajina – 3rd Development Axis. The 3rd Development Axis, the southern part, has allocated a million euros to the Ministry of Justice from European funds to restore this international border crossing. On the other hand, also from European funds, the international border crossing of Metlik. It is now 9 km of road and we are on a new connecting road which leads to the intersection or in Croatia they call the "Novigrad node", to the highway Zagreb-Rike. This means the nearest route to the sea from this part of southeast Slovenia to Dalmatia and beyond. Maybe there'll be a lot of us on this road. From this we could conclude that the Republic of Slovenia, as you said, and I correctly concluded, does not have this in place among strategic priorities. In my opinion, it's sad. In my opinion, it's a shame. Let me refer to the words of Mr Hojs, Minister of Defence, who said at the last meeting of the Defence Committee: "White country is the one most cut off in the country where the worst economic situation is." Before that, he said, "I walk a lot in Slovenia." What am I talking about? For the 3rd development axis or development axis, it is certainly not right for others to be placed on the side track. Not only the 2nd Divača-Koper railway track, but also the 3rd development axis – would help the economy. That is why I would like you to take action here, Mr. Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u160	Thank you. A complement to the answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u161	I don't know what the complementary question is, but whether you didn't listen to me or you didn't want to listen to me, honourable Member. I wasn't talking about these developmental axes not being among the strategic priorities. You yourself said that you miss it during the strategic delays caused by your three-year government in the period 2008-2011. We did not put this in place during the strategic delays, because there should be 70 other state spatial plans, which are all in delay. Everybody, first to last! From one who has run for four or five years to one who has run for eleven years now in government. I said there would be more than ten pages of this material, if not even more than a hundred pages. Obviously, we made a mistake because we haven't put an extra strain on you. Obviously! I should have made you a whole book, put together all these strategic delays and then set up a debate in the National Assembly on all these strategic delays. I said that during the strategic delays in our ministry we limited ourselves to a very small part that is strategically important, and this is the placement of Slovenia in transport corridors. That depends on our strategic development in the future. However, these strategic delays, which are just as important as you want, are probably not particularly necessary to lose words. The 3rd development axis is still among the transport priorities in both the north and south, and the timeline I told you is about this. Part of this timeline is at the end of this year and part two of 2014; I did not invent it myself; it remains in documents confirmed by your government or the SD government during the period 2008-2011. As you know, in 2004 and 2005 and in the second part in 2006, the document of placement in the area of the 3rd development axis began to take place in one part. Now it's 2012. You can figure out for yourself what kind of delay this is. I can assure you from this place that we will do everything we can to make these procedures at least half as fast as they have been before. At least half the faster.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Do you have a proposal for a general discussion?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u163	Your Honor! According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and also according to the words of the distinguished Minister – today people from Postojna were here, I met them, and I support that the project is being implemented there, including Jelšane, and other important things, but the 3rd Development Axis is the one that would help the development of the Republic of Slovenia. I therefore propose a public debate on the need for Slovenia to have a third development axis and an international link to the Pan-European Corridor, namely Austria-Slovenia-Croatia. I'm asking for this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u164	I assume you meant a discussion on the answer to the next meeting. We will, of course, decide on this in the context of the votes. It is now up to Mrs Saša Kos, who will raise a question to Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u165	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! Dear Minister! Regardless of the question already raised at the previous meeting, I will also touch on your forecasts in the coalition contract, where you have committed yourself to improving access to health services by amending the rules, particularly in peripheral areas. I quote: "The lack of doctors is most visible in the peripheral areas of Slovenia. In addition to lack of personnel, there is no clear long-term reconstruction of the public health network. On a realistic basis, taking into account the expected disease of the population and the increase in the number of doctors, we will set up an optimal public health network and adopt a programme for establishing and maintaining it. It will also be supplemented by concessions for pharmacy, which will be awarded by the Ministry of Health on the basis of clear criteria. We will also redefine the role of local communities in ensuring access to primary health." You are complemented by: 'The public network will also be complemented by concessions to be awarded on the basis of public tenders and contracts for a period of time. We will take measures to increase admission to medical school." You have recently said that you need more than one calculation before the decision, and the fact is that you have already awarded a few concessions with an excuse for better accessibility and reduction of waiting periods. You say you are not in favor of a large number of concessions yourself, but in the coalition contract you clearly write down that you will also give them to pharmacies. I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General: Have you already carried out or are you monitoring the disease in the context of the proposed changes, on the basis of which you will prepare a new network and introduce appropriate standards and standards for the health service provider? I also ask you: What are the results of the analyses carried out? The fact is that, in the field of primary level concessions in the past, it has been shown several times that public health establishments have been damaged in this account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u167	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The basic objective to follow is to ensure effective healthcare for the population and to the maximum extent to be accessible. On the other hand, accessibility depends to the greatest extent, on the one hand, on the funding that we have to provide – i.e., if resources are not sufficient, we cannot finance additional programmes – and on the other hand also on the capacity of the healthcare system. So, health care facilities, availability of doctors, etc. Here it was about funding, not to mention a few steps taken to stabilise the cash register. On the other hand, the basic document which provides for accessibility is, of course, a general agreement. The general agreement determines how much work, the extent and the manner in which it will be done. The general agreement also provides that the ZZS with the operators shall determine the maximum waiting period that is still permissible for individual cases. Otherwise, operators need some consensus. In the introduction, I have to say that this waiting period has not increased during this period; it is sometimes shorter, however, that individual cases, which may be partly linked to funding, sometimes also to the provision of an appropriate number of experts – in terms of distribution. In this area, perhaps, first of all as information: of course, we need to make a network that we are currently preparing for the primary level. I am talking about a primary-level network for family doctors, pediatricians, dentists, dispensaries, and, above all, emergency medical care, which is not organised in a way that should be given the different accessibility of residents to this emergency medical care. Only on this basis can we also discuss precisely the lack or on the other hand the excess number of doctors. It is currently estimated that looking at the secondary level and the tertiary level, given the large increase in the last period, is more or less sufficient. It is said that we have some problems mainly at the primary level. Here we try to take into account the data we also regularly monitor, this is also a regular task of the Institute for Health Protection to monitor these data on disease according to demographic characteristics, characteristics of regions and the like. This is then the starting point for further arrangements and new programmes, where, of course, they prove necessary. You know that we need to change legislation, which in four, five months in this area, if we want to drive them in the way you want to, is simply not possible in such a short time. We can make a network, we can take steps, but we can't change, say, the way concessions are granted. That is why I also mentioned in what you have read, that concessions should be given at this time, given that we have to respond – of course in the event that a statement by the CFSP is made that funding is provided and that, on the basis of the information accompanying it, there is also less accessibility, which of course means longer waiting periods for certain activities. Here were some signed so as not to cause further damage to accessibility for a longer period. However, the fact remains that there is a need to amend legislation and also to call in a way that is significantly more transparent and where less obvious is possible. In addition, what are the other measures? One is cooperation in general agreement, the other is networking, the third is the opening of reference outpatients, which is also taking place this year, despite the difficulties we have faced and improves the treatment of chronic patients. Next are screening programs such as Sweet, Dora, Zora. For Dora, a group was formed to move forward this deadlock. I think we're also shortening waiting periods in this part, and the fact is, let's say, in June, there were fewer waiting ones on the list than in April. But there are, of course, individual interventions where we know that there are problems, mainly from orthopaedics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Minister. Another supplementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u169	Mr. Minister, I'm interested. Look, these people's salaries have been reduced, the pensioners and so on, which are probably the most needed of these health services, such and other. [[...]] I would ask you how you imagine Namreč, for concessionaires we know – waiting periods up and down and there I am, but if someone comes to the concessionaire, it can be immediately if he pays him, otherwise waiting periods are such and such lengths. [[...]] If concessions increase, this means that accessibility will also be worse or that the population will be more affected or more affected. There is no way I can accept that people who now have reduced income will be able to afford both dental and health services, which, after your presentation, will be offered by these so-called concessionaires, who will grow into pharmacies and so on. We know what that means next. I'd like to ask you a question. In the previous session, you replied to me, among other things, that in the past there have been many laws that represent fairy tales for you, which you can write for yourself. I am speaking, of course, of the new Health Act, which also regulates the field of concessions. You have pointed out that you want to speak first within the government, especially the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice, on such an important issue as health. As an opposition member, I can certainly understand your way of thinking, but I ask you: In what way will you make the announced competition between the establishments and the payment after the work has been done? Does this mean that because of the so-called efficiency we will witness the flourishing of concessionaires at an appropriate level, perhaps with worse services, which I have already asked you about before? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u170	Here's your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u171	These are now entirely new questions that I fear I have too little time for. First of all, I'd say I'm sorry, but obviously, you're wrong about the concessions. In fact, if someone is a concessionaire, it does not mean that the patient who comes to him is paying, but the concessionaire is, of course, the one who has the concession and comes to him in the same way as all the other doctors in public health care establishments. So that doesn't mean self-paying. As far as the second piece of legislation is concerned. I just wanted to point out that, in the past, there have been uncoordinated proposals in the drafting of laws within the coalition and that, therefore, the coalitions themselves have not been able and able to adopt and confirm these laws, despite the majority in the national assembly. This, of course, is not what I want and why we need to harmonise some basic starting points in reforms first within the government, to see how acceptable this is, and then also in agreement with the social partners and with the other stakeholders, to adopt legislation, as we think it is necessary, and as I have said many times, as I have advocated: that there is broad access to health care, that it is well organised and that it is of quality.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u172	Thank you very much. The next one is mag. Stanko Stepišnik and the question is addressed to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much. I have a question for the Minister on economic growth. Gross domestic product continues to decline. In 2011, it was only 84% of Europe's average. Compared to Austria, where it stood at 129%, we are lagging behind almost 50% for the neighbouring country, or the EU average of economic development measured by gross domestic product, in order to make it clear to the purchaser. If Slovenia has €17 000 800, Austria has €33 000 of gross domestic product per employee. This means that Slovenia today would have a gross domestic product of about 60 billion. With these 60 billion, we could probably do very well with what the social and everything else in Slovenia wants. Exports — imports are still negative for the benefit of imports, the coverage of imports by export is 73 %. From January to April, exports amounted to 6.8 billion, imports of 7.2 billion. What is worrying about exports and imports is that we have imported 14.3% of the services and 9.5% have exported them. Towards products, this is almost twice the proportion of products: services such as neighbouring Austria. Exports of high-tech products in Slovenia still lagged 11.3% for Europe, Austria 4.5% over Europe's average. The backlog of the product range of processing activities after technological difficulty is lower by 7 % between 2008 and 2010, indicating that the trend is still negative. The added value, which is some proof of social wealth, amounted to 7.2 billion in Slovenia from January to April and is lower by 0.2% and barely to 60% of the European average. Investments. Domestic investment spending was 10.5% lower than in 2011 and still shows no signs of recovery to be higher. If we remember, the forecasts were that only investments would have a positive growth, while private and public consumption would be negative. The number of employees in the economy is decreasing [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Your time is up. Here you go, Minister Zerjav for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u175	Thank you so much for asking. Today there are quite a few similar questions, I see that you yourself have set two practically identical, another in terms of competitive ability. I see big connections here myself. Today, something similar has already been asked about economic growth. As I said: The government has taken the first measures it has taken on the subject of economic growth and economic recovery. I'm saying this another time today, and I'll probably do it again. She did this because she wanted to create a more competitive business environment. By reducing the value added tax – in short, from the income of legal persons, by facilitating investment, by facilitating research and development. These were the first measures we proposed just to create a more favourable, more business-friendly environment in the field of investment. It was followed by dealing with the Public Finance Balance Act, which took a lot of effort and time for the government, but immediately after that we took a second package of measures to encourage the economy. In front of you at this meeting, and the extraordinary meeting that follows is 16 different laws with 75 measures, with 377 million euros and 10 calls accompanying this package. All the laws proposed are linked to creating a more competitive business environment for companies in Slovenia and thus creating an environment that will be interesting for foreign direct investment. As I said, I do not make differences between domestic or foreign investments. If the business environment is such that it is attractive for domestic economists, I believe that foreign investors will also come with investments in Slovenia. Many areas are in this package, of the most problematic in the area of infrastructure and space related to the acquisition of building permits and consents – in short, we shorten, drasticly, radically shorten procedures so that entrepreneurs can get a building permit first. What we have today is nothing, and in this way economic growth simply cannot be, and with such a system and such legislation as we have now, we cannot attract foreign direct investment because none of the foreign investors will deal with these procedures. That's a fact, that's a fact, that's what we're all aware of and that needs to be changed. We've been dealing with payment indiscipline, otherwise there are dilemmas about it, the executor yes, no. I think it is positive, however, with the action taken by the previous government, and I think we will find one synergy here and take an important step forward in this area. Third time. Land. Connected to the price of land in industrial zones. You know that in Slovenia we have communally equipped many zones, industrial, crafts, business; in short, you find everything in Slovenia, varied, but in most of these industrial zones grow bushes. Go take a look, and you'll see - the bushes grow. Why? Because these lands in these business zones are simply too expensive. What did we do? We have changed: for the first time or at a table – I hope that the matter will go through – the Agricultural Lands Act and under the B Real Estate Act of the State and Communities, where we allow the mayors to find that they have a strategic investment at their disposal, to offer that investor land in the industrial zone not to say 1 euro. In short, we want to make foreign investments. We want to make investments, but for this we need to create an environment; and we are doing so. That's not all we've done with this other package. I hope that there will be an understanding of these measures that have come into force. We, too, had problems in the government when we had to force it, quickly, time is not, the economy requires this of us. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Then I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u176	Thank you very much. You will continue if there is a request for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u177	In fact, I have what you mentioned about foreign direct investment under another issue. I'm on my last call, so it's supposed to be at 11:00. The number of unemployed is lower and stands at 105 thousand,600 unemployed for June. The concern is that it is not transparent from statistics, that some are not registered as unemployed, but in the tables of statistics under the heading Outflows for reasons other than employment, in the number of 17 000 212 people. This is a matter of concern as the number of unemployed is decreasing and the number of employees in the economy is decreasing. It's not wrong, as I said before, if productivity were greater. The number of employees decreased by 71,000 by October 2008 until September 2011, while the number of employees increased by 7 000 in the non-economic sector, and the number of employees decreased by 36 000 in the processing sector by 25 000 in the construction sector. 21 000 reduces the added value by at least €800 million – if these were fired and only had a minimum wage, that is to say 12,000 euros per year. It is said that the revenue in the budget for 71,000 unemployed is less than €400 million and 71,000 unemployed is a budget deficit of about a billion. The second, which is of great concern to the economy, is a credit crunch, which stretches for more than three years. Even this year, banks will not lend to the economy, which means that the question is also for 2013. Are you thinking about helping Slovenia at 10 billion? My number is 6 billion for the rehabilitation of the banking system, 4 billion for economic investment, so we would come up with 80% of the debt from the social gross product and would receive the aid; all that is over 60% of the social gross product that Europe has produced and we are not there because [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u178	Mr Stepišnik, if I understand correctly, these were additional questions but not a request for a supplement. But, nevertheless, Minister, please proceed with a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u179	In any case, as I said, we are creating an environment for investment. I hope that you note that many of the measures we have taken, which are proposed and will be discussed at this meeting and at the next, are exceptional to go in this direction. I urge you to let us correct if anything else can be improved to make this matter even better. At this point, we are already preparing a third package for autumn. The architecture is being hailed right now, but we'll talk more about it in the fall. What do I mean by that? What we have done is not all and it is not enough and I am also aware that it is not enough, but it was possible to do so now, by July, with all the criticisms that are and are partly justified to pressure and want to change things quickly. Yes, we do, because it is necessary and this economy requires us. More! I have cases on the investors' table, just like I've been talking all the time in that other chair, with money in my pocket and in the hands of projects, and they can't get building permits because of red tape. I hope that these individual cases, one from our end, and here around Braslovč etc., are more examples, but we will push them forward and that new jobs will be created there as soon as possible, because it is incomprehensible that somewhere in the drawer – I do not know which one of whose offices is in which one is in such a situation and is not being solved, even though the investment on the table is real and is able to realize it. Unfortunately, we don't have that 10 billion. I'd like to have them myself. We can get in debt, you say, 80 – because that's what I asked where we're going, 80, 90, 100% of GDP, actually in the direction of Greece. Who's gonna give it back? Do we have the opportunity or are we given to do so at all? Is this given to us by our craftsmen, who are going to have these loans, which we're going to throw out in one way or another, to pay for it? I think we need to rely primarily on what we have, on this potential that we have, and make the most of it. We have the opportunity to take substantial steps to create a more competitive business environment, as my colleague Han has said before, and thus attract capital and foreign investment. I think it's real and it's possible, but we all have to work together.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Do you still have a suggestion?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u181	Yes, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 266 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that a public debate be held. At the same time, Austria and Germany have an 80 % debt on the social gross product and will now help themselves from 60% to 80%. We have 47%, and probably if we help ourselves, we will definitely help each other, but not in two, three years, but in 15 years. Development and research – more than two-thirds of companies in Slovenia no longer invest in their products, which means that we will have more bankruptcys in the next year than in the first four months; 1.5 bankruptcys per day is every month. The number of working hours, productivity where we also work, as it is also your area after all, is only 136 hours paid for which are effective. The unit cost of the product is also 5% higher than the average of Europe. What worries most is that you, as Minister, who advocated the jewels of Slovenia as a wealth, have begun to recruit according to the principle of SDS: your people in your seats. When you join two public funds, Maribor and Ribnica – Maribor has an entrepreneurial fund, Ribnica has a regional development fund, and the three agencies you join – you transfer with the new law the management of the joint fund, Maribor and Ribnica, to Ribnica. Does that make sense? I don't know if that makes sense. Maribor [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u182	Can you limit yourself to a procedural proposal, Mr Stepišnik?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u183	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u184	You probably wanted to make a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u185	Widespread debate, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u186	Okay. We will decide on your proposal in the context of the votes. Thank you very much. It is now up to Mr Samo Bevk, who has a question for Minister Žigo Turk, who is excused to be absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u187	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Finally, after many years of efforts, Idrija and Spanish Almaden are on the universal and prestigious list of world heritage at UNESCO. With this great success, I would like to thank and congratulate Minister Žiga Turk and his colleagues and all his predecessors for this, and at the same time congratulate him on the first time in Slovenia. So Slovenia today has three attractions on Unesco's list: the Škocjan Caves, the prehistoric cradle around the Alps and Idrija. The entry of Idrija on this prestigious list means a remarkable achievement of the monumental protection profession and cultural policy in promoting our cultural and natural heritage. This remarkable success should be an additional incentive for the professional, state and local communities to make new proposals, not only in the field of cultural and natural attractions, but also in the area of intangible or living cultural heritage. The increase in the number of units of our heritage on the Unesca list represents a great opportunity for our further development in the field of tourism and economic activities and for the recognition of Slovenia in the world. Since we have every opportunity for additional entries, both on the World Heritage List and on the first entries on the list of intangible cultural heritage of mankind, I would like to ask: Is the Ministry preparing new proposals? At the same time, I'm asking Minister Grig Turk: Is it intended to strengthen the Directorate for Cultural Heritage or Competent Service within the Ministry in order to successfully prepare and implement these projects, and to coordinate and implement more effectively the Convention on the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage and the Convention on the Protection of Insubstantial Cultural Heritage? Today, Slovenia has three other features on the so-called trial list: classic Kras, fusion mountains in Bohinj and partisan Franjo Hospital. On the national list of registered living heritage, there are currently nine units from the Škopheloški pasion and church laufaria to the production of paper flowers. Let me mention that, for example, the Croatian Ministry, which is very successful in this area, has seven landmarks on the world list and 12 on the list of living heritage. There are seven employees working on these projects and only one employees in the Slovenian Ministry. Thus, if we are to compare ourselves with neighbouring countries, we must also do something in the field of human resources and expertise and strengthen this service. I ask Minister Turk to answer my question at my first next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u188	Thank you very much. We have accepted your proposal, the item will be added to the next meeting. The next one is Mrs. Alenka Bikar. He also has a question for Dr. Mark Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u189	I'm not used to asking someone who's not even here. I ask the Minister: Are you still planning to implement amendments to certain standards and standards in the education system in the school year 2012/2013? One of the points you want to change in any way is the increase in the number of pupils per teacher, because you are convinced that this ratio in Slovenia is low. Let's look at some data from European research for 2012, namely: Denmark, Poland, Latvia - 10; Italy, Lithuania, Hungary, Greece, Portugal - 11; Sweden 12; Belgium, Spain, Austria - 13; Finland - 14; Netherlands, Romania, Estonia, Ireland - 16; Belgium, Germany and Slovenia - 17. The same study for the entire elementary school in Slovenia shows that one professional worker per 12.45 pupils, which makes us 12 out of 27 countries in the European Union. So your words are a little misleading. Then there is the idea of a longer presence of teachers in school, which undoubtedly affects better quality educational work, but only if the offer of educational activities in primary schools is extended, among which students could choose during the post-school period, but there is nothing to be heard about. Only an administrative increase in the presence of teachers will have no effect. In Europe, there is a mandatory presence of professional workers in schools in 13 countries, including only 3 more than 30 hours, such as Portugal 35, Iceland 34 hours and Great Britain 32. Finland, which has been the best European country since its achievements in the field of education in the world summit and has been the best European country for decades, has 25 mandatory hours of weekly presence for teachers. These are just a few of the suggestions that we are talking about. That's why I want to know: What are those changes you intend to make? As a parent, I am truly concerned about the changes mentioned and possible. I have two not yet compulsory children, and in the fall, the older daughter will go to school and I'm worried about whether she'll still receive quality education. And I'm not the only one! We rightly ask our parents whether the country will continue to provide quality education and education to everyone, regardless of the different living circumstances. Due to rationalisation, you are obviously prepared to lower the standards and standards achieved and consequently the quality achieved, which makes me very sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u190	Thank you very much. I still have to ask you, wouldn't I? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u191	Yeah, sure. I'd like her to answer me in writing in 30 days.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u192	You will receive a written reply within 30 days. Thank you very much. Next up is Alenka Jeraj. He has a question for two ministers, Mr Zvonk Černač and Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u193	Thank you for your word. Nice welcome to the ministerial team! Two months ago, I was asking about the shell casing. For years now, and practically since 2005, we have been talking very intensively about the carousel, preparing solutions and studies, preparing meetings as a whole, and so far none of this has been realized. Mayors predict or meet with representatives of ministries, threaten with the closure of the Ljubljana-Kočevje road, and still talk about different options where the bypass could take place. That's why I want to know: What is it like to put into space or to draw up a national spatial plan? What obstacle are the protection regimes or protections of Natura 2000, the Ljubljanska Barje Landscape Park? How many substitutable habitats do we need, and why haven't we talked about this since 2005? Can and when can we expect a temporary solution in the form of a tripartite with a changing regime of 2 plus 1 or four lanes on the road Škofljica-Ljubljana? Will and when will the Circle be arranged on the Skull, which would also be a temporary solution?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u194	Thank you so much for asking. The first one is Mr. Blackach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u195	Thank you very much for that question. As it has been established, since 2005 the place of Škofljica in the area has not yet been selected in 2012. So seven years have passed without the most optimal option being chosen. And now I am reading that some expect a state spatial plan to be adopted within two months! This is totally unrealistic. On the other hand, we decided to cut this path position in some way. It is necessary to determine which of the options envisaged is the most optimal, most realistic and which can be placed in the space. To decide on these issues, we have somehow given ourselves time until the end of this year and somehow foreseen that the State Spatial Plan could, in such a case, be adopted at the beginning of or in the spring of next year; of course, if environmental issues and those limitations, which will be discussed by my colleague Bogovic, will be resolved. Otherwise, this placement has a very varied history. Throughout these individual years from 2005 until now, many things have happened, different variants have been studied, those running along the edge of Barja. It has to be said that it is the place of the railing along the edge of Barja and that it is not the cutting of this bar, and a version of Foxes, two ministers, has also been studied. 2. In 2011, the Minister of Transport and the then Minister of Environment and Space agreed somehow that it was unrealistic and that it continued only with the variants taking place along the edge of Barja, while the other two ministers later found out, culturally and at the time, that this was wrong and that the option of Foxes should be reinstated. In short, I'm only saying this because you see the way things are going in this area. I think it is wise to limit ourselves to those options that are real, these are the variants that run on the edge of Barja, to resolve environmental issues and, in the meantime, intensive preparation of the project to redesign the existing road, which will only be a temporary solution, Škofljica-Ljubljana, into a temporary four-passenger, including this circle mentioned. This year these options are to be examined and this solution can be implemented in the following year.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u196	Minister Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u197	As my colleague Montenegro has already said, it is a route that is taking place in a very vulnerable area, which is why these many problems have been throughout all these years. This is an area that is very burdensome in terms of protecting different regimes. On the one hand, the area of ecological heritage, Nature 2000, of the landscape park is threatened by flood, including the area of agricultural land, including first-class agricultural land. Therefore, in the environmental report, which has been prepared several times and corrected, it is necessary to actually come up with a variant that will find a compromise between all these solutions, but also to answer the specific questions that are mandatory within the Nature regime in particular, and respect themselves, so that there is no further difficulty in making the envisaged cohesion funds with which such a project could be carried out, raise questions – those which are intended for this project if there is a grave breach, as well as some others. As a result of this project, we met at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space with the mayors of 13 municipalities in February 2012. We've made some sort of first cut of this state. I hold in my hands the product produced by the Interdepartmental Commission, where it responds both to these permanent solutions, says the adoption of the State Spatial Plan for this Škofljica Oblast, as well as to these solutions announced by counterpart Cernač, which must take place in parallel on this route, so that this final traffic, which takes place mainly in the morning and evening hours, can also be unloaded on these routes, which are so burdened today. It will also have to be realized that there is no solution in the long run to bring all traffic to the very centre of the city. Such a bypass is certainly good to get to the point where transit traffic is also running out and so forth. While the whole story is still in great need of a comprehensive transport study and a local transport study to be organised for the wider area.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u198	Complementary, please, Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u199	This will be for the minister who was last in charge of agriculture. You didn't say anything about substitutable habitats. If this is one of the restrictions, we would expect that something has also happened in this area, or that we have found options where such habitats can be claimed. In my laity opinion, probably all the animals we protect there are nothing better if they are rolling columns and standing in rows and huge exhaust gases and so on. I think both aspects need to be looked at. We can be very nature-friendly and watch out for the environment, but sometimes we cause even more environmental problems with measures or such a jam. Surely, for all that animal and plant world, these daily columns and morning tips are not the best. I want to know: Has anything been done in this regard? How much money should we provide, given the short route, would that be four kilometers away?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u200	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u201	Firstly, it is a project for the adoption of the State Spatial Plan. In this spatial plan, it will be necessary, as we have said, to establish the route inter-resortably and appropriately from the statutory report of the substitute habitats. The current situation, I believe, you are aware that after this last environmental report on substitutable habitats for about 13 hectares, it has been stated that 270 hectares of habitats on agricultural areas should be established. And this is what this group is also talking about: where will this route now be, or will it be in the middle of Barja, on the edge of Barja, which also depends on the extent of the habitats. Talk about whether this is really necessary from the point of view of noise to such an extent, or whether additional measures, which have already been indicated, from anti-group fences, to better asphalt, to speed limits, can easily lead to the professional sustainability of the environmental report. But to avoid such ones, I don't know how to say it, to the extent that 270 hectares of agricultural land should be converted into substitute habitats, or even a few years earlier, as has been said. However, as I have already said, there are sharp hands on this project. It has been determined that, I think, a great flaw in placement so far has been that those responsible are sitting at the same table and trying to find optimal solutions in this work. I believe, as my colleague Chernač said, I have also discussed with the people working in this area, and that we are trying constructively to find this solution, which will eventually have the final adoption of the DN, and that we accept in such a way that the European Commission is now in 20 cases in the field of the environment, which we are facing, not to open up new fronts, but to professionally identify and place the route professionally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u202	Thank you very much. The next question will be put by Mr Matjaž Zanoškar to the Minister for Home Affairs. Let me prepare myself, please, Mr Aloysius Potočnik or then Mag. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u203	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! This is my question to Mr Vinko Gorenak, Minister of the Interior. This question concerns the envisaged reorganisation that is being prepared in the Ministry of Crime Police. By order – probably yours or your cabinet – the police are preparing a reorganisation in the area of the Department of Economic Crime, Classical and Organized Crime under the name of Cascade. According to some information and sources coming from the professional public, it is clear that this reorganisation is quite pointless and questionable because it brings together all these strategically important departments dealing with the most diverse and most serious crimes and crimes. The integration of all these departments and the abolition of some of them would lead to inefficiencies in the work in this area and, in particular, to a reduction in the number of employees who are currently doing these jobs. In short, all three areas of crime, economic, classical, organised crime, are expected to become non-operable in the opinion of the professional public with this organisational model. The operational parts are intended to cross these areas, which have been, such as analysts, such as international cooperation. This is also a first-level issue – that is, you start this reorganisation at the state level. Then the question is how this reorganisation will proceed in the area of the regions. But the general question is that European countries are largely organised in such a way as the current organisation. What will then be the compatibility of work after reorganisation with other countries? It is therefore a matter of international cooperation in the field of crime. In addition, when it is said that the Libra project, which was absolutely politically motivated, was run by the same group of experts as leading the reorganisation or the Cascade project. So this scepticism is from Libra, which we've talked about a lot, which we've warned a lot about, it has a political motive, but it's not shown and it hasn't produced any results. Otherwise, we have not yet received a report in the National Assembly on the results of Libra, which has been launched and realised. I'm asking you these questions about Project Cascade.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u204	Here you are, Mr. Minister, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u205	Thank you very much. You told the professional public, but the professional public has their own interests, sometimes I see, at least it's understandable. The project you're talking about, this is the Cascade project, it's not a project to reorganise the criminal police, and as far as I'm concerned, since I've been Minister, we haven't been preparing the reorganisation of the criminal police and it's still, at least this year, we won't. I could finish and finish here, but still, I have time at my disposal and I'm going to explain a few things to you. Before me, the predecessor led the Libra project, as you said, you called it politically motivated, and I will not define myself. It is true that this was your government that abolished three police administrations, Krška, Postojno and Slovenj Gradec, and this also happened in Slovenj Gradec. Slovenj Gradec has no police administration today, but he kept the criminal police. And according to the description you've just given, it's about the procedures my predecessor has taken, not me. Actually, I didn't do anything at the crime scene from the point of view of the organization. What did my predecessor do? In Slovenj Gradz you had 22 crime jobs, one of them disappeared and left you 21. It is true, however, that Slovenia Gradec is no longer a self-sustaining criminal service with all departments – I stress that Mrs Kresalova did not do this – but it is all subordinate to Celje. These bosses and chiefs, if you'll allow me this term that she's cut off, have a little lower salary because they're responsible to Cel and they're no longer independent, and they're obviously not satisfied with their position. But it's Mrs. Kresal's business, not mine. This evaluation of the project, its work from the point of view of Libra, I will soon get it and I can give it to you and I am skeptical about this project, very skeptical, but I have no influence on it. The buildings are sold, the buildings are dedicated and there will be no new rentals. But I could still use the time to calm you down and comfort you, not just you, even the Korean public, I think I have something to say to her or through you. Look, it's true that we're talking about a Cascade project that has one goal. Firstly, it covers the uniformed criminal police and the Ministry of the Interior. The result of this matter in the Ministry of the Interior will be the systemisation that will be adopted on Thursday in the government. It means 50 deleted posts of 780. These are empty places, and they're just paper numbers. But in money, that means, roughly, I can't say that if the marriages haven't expired, that means about 40 people who are going to retire by marriage, and we're not going to replace them. This will greatly reduce the total number. It's for the Ministry. As far as the police is concerned, it is a matter of preparation — but I am talking about the uniformed and criminal police and all the accompanying police services to the police stations. And here this project means – what? It means, for the first time: that we already, and this is what the director already did, asked all those working at the local level at police stations to stay and not retire for reasons we need them. We're not gonna force anyone at the police station to retire. Secondly: on police administrations, this same criterion applies to all criminals, including all those working today in Slovenj Gradc, if anyone has conditions for retirement between these 21s, he has already been or will be invited to stay because they are operatives working on the ground. On police administrations, however, we will not extend employment contracts to those who work in so-called so-called jobs. I will make it easier for you and the public to understand me better in office services. Even if they're wearing a uniform. Because these services have expanded too much in recent years. To answer for the criminal police, please give me a chance. Thank you very much. I'd like to make it up to you if I'm invited.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u206	Here you go, supplement the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u207	Dear Mr. Secretary. I understand you as if there is no Cascade project, it's not being implemented. I am interested in something, and I ask you to answer it – whether it is involved in the reorganisation or whether it is involved in the Cascade project or not, please tell me the following. In the case of the work of economic crime, in the case of the part where they deal with corruption, whose department inspectors have examined or conducted the Patricia procedure — is this section terminated? That's the only question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u208	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u209	Thank you for the opportunity to let me answer this part, too, because I was at the crime scene. In the criminal police of Slovenia, where we also take into account police administrations, with the project that I ordered, these are Cascades, nothing changes. Nothing changes, not even in Slovenj Gradc. What was changed in Slovenia was after Mrs Kresalova's previous project. But there will be one consequence in Slovenia City with the criminal police. Indeed, at national and regional level, we will not extend employment contracts for the majority of people with pension conditions. But if they want to, and if they want to, and if they want to, we'll offer them jobs in the O.R. So it's the CSI. What it means now is, in theory, two, three people I also know who work in such services here in Ljubljana; if they want, they also have criminal police available in Slovenia Gradec, we will reduce costs and increase the number of criminals in you, Slovenia Gradec. From this point of view, I think you'll get more criminals and you'll be able to calm people down. But for the state level, I can say that we will retire all those — we will not extend their employment contracts to make me more accurate — who work in non-operational services. That's the first time. Secondly, we will abolish, stress, we will abolish about 150 jobs that today represent such and other inspectors, but not those of the criminal police, the inspector is for this, for that, and so on, for transport, for the border, and for everyone else, and we will carry them down. This means police administrations, including police stations, operational posts, where police operations are carried out; including and with emphasis on the criminal police, which means that you can also promise more criminals in Slovenia Gradec and no less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u210	Thank you very much. The question to Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar will be posed by mag. Leila Hercegovac. I'd like you to prepare yourself, please, Mrs. Patricia Schulin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u211	Dear Vice-President, distinguished ministers, fellow Members and fellow Members, welcome on my behalf! The vaccine is an effective way to protect against infectious diseases. IVZ, Institute for Health Protection, prepares each year a proposal for a programme for the vaccinated and then is confirmed by the Ministry of Health. The financial resources for compulsory vaccination are from the State budget, in accordance with Article 7 of the Health and Health Insurance Act. Therefore, children and adults should be vaccinated under the Republic’s immunisation programme, as set out in the 2009 Official Journal of the European Union’s Rules for the Implementation of Health Care. The vaccines have so far been safe and quality. Vaccination programmes continue to require such vaccines. ZUJF reduced vaccine funds and the consequences are visible. I hope our minister does an audit for the vaccine program. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: How will you ensure in the future the appropriate and effective selection of vaccines in the Republic of Slovenia for adults and children to continue to be safe and quality? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u212	Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u213	Once again, a good day to all. Thank you for asking. Again, I feel that you know more than I do — where the consequences are visible and where the standards have changed. I don't think so. Nor does it hold that vaccines are paid from the state budget, but are covered by compulsory health insurance through the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. The programme prepares the IVZ, as you said, in cooperation with a special advisory group, which includes additional experts and civil society. On this basis, the Ministry shall adopt a regulation and a central invitation to tender for vaccines shall be issued on the basis of this Regulation. This was also carried out last year for four years, taking place in two phases, a two-phase procedure. Next, those who may be tenderers shall be selected and, at the next stage, an invitation to tender shall be sought, if necessary, for each vaccine. Last year, some less than €5 million was spent on all vaccines. Here I absolutely reject any claim that a worse vaccine is being bought. All the programmes are in line with the doctrine and the rules and proposals of the Institute for Health Protection and I simply see no reason for anything else to happen here. Of course, I say that to the same extent, quality vaccines will be provided for programmes that will be adopted as those that are effective in preventing the spread of communicable diseases by vaccination.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u214	Complementary response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u215	I hope, Mr Minister, that on your side of the Ministry of Health, where the vaccination department has read what goes on from the state budget, and that you will apologize for what you have just said. We have a public contract for vaccines that should allow for a fair choice of vaccine to protect against HPV-virus infections, and this is already in the procedure at the Institute for Health Protection. Do you believe, Minister, that the State Audit Commission has prepared the correct selection of HPV-virus vaccines? Is the vaccine of the same quality, given that it is crucial to choose the vaccine price? We know that some vaccines are cheaper than 73%. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u216	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u217	Thank you. Of course, there is no reason for any apology. As far as HPV is concerned, in order to prevent cervical cancer, last year, under the guidance of the former Minister, the regulation, where the four-valent vaccine was mentioned at the time, now allows a two- and four-valent vaccine, according to the views of the anti-corruption commission. We know that the supplier and manufacturer of the four-valent vaccine is only one and that a corresponding public tender has been requested. Indeed, the invitation to tender was launched for the first time in March and, in view of the opinions of the audit committee, it was also amended and supplemented and republished. Here, too, there has been a complaint by both manufacturers and suppliers of these medicines, and I think we will need an additional legal opinion here on how to conduct the procedure so that there is no evidence of corruption in the procurement of this vaccine. I see the problem in fact that there is only one producer of a four-valent vaccine and that this law also makes it possible to obstruct the procedure manifestly indefinitely. I think that, if not otherwise, on a proposal, if necessary, we will probably find the Court of Auditors a solution that is legal and also safe enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u218	Mrs Patricia Šulin will ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franc Bogovic. Let me prepare myself, please, Mr. Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u219	Madam President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present. I ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment how the issue I will address will be addressed below. One of the reasons why food is more expensive in Slovenia is the higher input costs of repromaterials, in which case plant protection products. The main rules governing the marketing of plant protection products in Slovenia are the Plant Protection Products Act and Regulation SO No 1107/2009 of 21. 9. 2009 on the marketing of plant protection products. It can only be traded with preparations registered in Slovenia and in addition to the Plant Protection Products Act, Article 32 provides for a parallel trade procedure. This means that in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, if authorised by the competent authority, a plant protection product registered in another EU Member State that is identical to the registered plant protection product in the Republic of Slovenia may be placed on the market and used. An authorisation for the transport of an identical plant protection product from an EU Member State shall be issued by the competent authority, in this case FURS. The marketing authorisation of an identical plant protection product shall be issued on the basis of the application of a legal or natural person. The competent authority shall, on the basis of the documents submitted, establish the identity of the two plant protection products and, in the administrative procedure, issue a marketing authorisation for such plant protection product or issue an authorisation, refuse such authorisation if it finds that the plant protection products are not identical. EC Regulation No 1107/2009 of 21. 9. In its 52nd Article 2009, the conditions for parallel trade are laid down. The authority responsible for granting an identical plant protection product marketing authorisation in a Member State shall, upon receipt of a complete application, issue the authorisation within fivety working days. Member States shall, at the request of each other, provide the information necessary to assess whether the funds are identical within 10 working days of receipt of the application. In recent years there have been large imbalances in prices between plant protection products in Slovenia and Italy. The prices of identical plant protection products in Slovenia are on average 28% more expensive than in Italy. These differences are expected to reduce the parallel trade procedure mentioned above, but unfortunately this is not the case. According to practice experience, the authorisation procedure takes several months, which is absolutely long since the period of application of plant protection products on permanent plantations is very short, seasonal [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u220	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u221	Thank you for this issue of MEPs, which is very qualityly prepared and puts at the forefront the problem of plant protection products. Above all, it occurs when smaller quantities are involved and commercial companies engaged in this activity are not decided to register because of expensive procedures and, as has been said, plant protection products, especially in neighbouring Italy – there is a problem, at other borders, and there are no such ambitions – these means are cheaper and can be solved to some extent by means of these parallel transport procedures. Within the framework of the activities of the Phytosanitary Authority of the Republic of Slovenia, which is responsible for this area, there are absolutely no reservations to these procedures, and our colleagues within this administration are strictly performing their duties within these deadlines. The big problem, however, is that you mentioned that our neighbours on the Italian side simply do not stick to these deadlines and that this has led to many delays, which are then the problem of seasonal use. The ten-day period in which we should get this answer on this identity of this preparation, I am talking about it, and only for those preparations is such a possibility, but unfortunately, as you said, this period has been significantly longer, on average four months in recent times. Eight such parallel applications were issued this year, and two to eight days have been conducted with us since we received this proof from the Italian side, as I have already said, and that period of five and a half days has been broken there, so that in these cases the average period was four months. Our colleagues drew attention to this problem within the framework of the European Commission this year, that the matter is not serious and that it is necessary to respect the hands. According to their assurances and experiences, we can confirm that these warnings have found their place, that they have fallen behind and that the deadline has been shorter since then, and that it is still not that forty-five days. At this point, even two applications from last year and one from this year are open and eight from this year have been saved. That's how much I can give an answer to that. However, as I have already said, in the context of the work of the Phytosanitary Authority, there are no such congestions, but colleagues on the Italian side who did not respect these deadlines have been warned in the appropriate place and some positive movement in this direction has taken place.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u222	Complementary response, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Minister, for this part of the answer. Yes, the problem is right next door, as you mentioned, and procedures for obtaining a parallel trade permit are taking place outside the legal time limits and should be faster. In view of the fact that the authorisation for parallel trade in such a procedure as currently exists does not reach its purpose, I am interested in: Does the Ministry consider a solution to allow parallel trade in plant protection products without the confirmation of the identity of a foreign country, by undertaking the importer to import the plant protection product identically to the registered product in Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u224	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u225	We have also discussed this with our colleagues and they are assessing that we simply cannot afford this, given that this would be a direct breach of legislation in this area and also a possible compensation action that would be expected from those who, by such a measure, would also make profits go away. We know what we're talking about. In this case, if the State were to violate this legislation, it would first point out the visa of the rules of the European Commission, and certainly those who are not interested in such licences being in time could initiate procedures and would be in direct harm. Therefore, it is a reflection in this direction, as we have said, that we are still trying to work with our colleagues, as well as at the European level, to ensure that, above all, they stick to the Italian side of these deadlines.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u226	Mr Jerko Čehovin will ask the Minister of Defence Mr Aleš Hojs a question. I'd like you to prepare yourself, please, Mrs. Tina Comel.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Even on my part a nice greeting to all present. I ask the distinguished Minister of Defence, who could share this issue with Mr Chernač, but since Mr Chernač is home from Postojna as well as I, and Mr Minister, at least as likely in the coming days, he will spend quite a lot of time in Postojna, so I would ask a question about the use of airspace. In fact, in June in Primorsk, in particular on the narrow Postojnski, in part also on Portorož, due to military exercises in civil aviation, we have limited the use of this space in some way. As a result, some newspaper articles, such as airlocks, are lifting pressure, then Portorož, cut off from Austria and Germany, air space for the military and civilians, and so on. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister. At the end of 2005, the European Commission adopted Regulation No 2150/2005 laying down common rules for the flexible use of airspace. The Regulation entered into force on 22 January 2006 and should be taken into account by EU Member States when using airspace from that date. We have recently witnessed the introduction of additional restrictions on the use of airspace. In recent times, we have witnessed the introduction of additional restrictions on the use of airspace due to the defence interests of the State or the Slovenian Armed Forces, which are working very hard on Slovenian and also foreign aircraft and reduce the attractiveness of Slovenian airspace. In fact, the concept of airspace management, described by the International Civil Aviation Organisation, has also been developed by the European Aviation Safety Organisation and cannot be understood as exclusively civil or exclusively military airspace. That's why I want to know: When and how will action be taken in the light of this Regulation also in Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u228	Here you go, Minister Hoys.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u229	Dear Member, thank you for asking. First of all, I would say that in fact, you have already given a part of the answer to the question. Indeed, this Regulation has already entered into force in the Slovenian legal order on the basis of direct implementation. The direct supervision or implementation of the regulation at this time is carried out by two departments, one by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, and the other by the Ministry of Defence, which is the result or cause of these prisons that you have been talking about. This Regulation explicitly states that it does not apply to military operations, i.e. when they are in the air or on the ground of military operations and when it comes to training soldiers, it is said, armies. Notwithstanding this fact, both ministries have already decided, in the past mandate, to draw up a regulation implementing this Regulation with the Joint Inter-Resort Commission, where it is intended to define more comprehensively and more precisely the body which would directly take care of the implementation of this Regulation in life. The implementation of this Regulation on the implementation of the regulation is intended to set up a so-called Interdepartmental Commission, which, in addition to both ministries, would also involve any civil associations, and I am particularly talking about airmen who are supposed to give an opinion or be defined for more precise airspace closures. This Regulation is currently in the public hearing phase. However, I must say that in the past mandate, it is said that both ministries, both the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Defence, have adopted a new regulation or new airspace regulation, which is mainly intended for the Pocket Military Area. This Regulation has been communicated over the past two years. I find it difficult to say how much she was communicating with the local community, given that I did not participate. However, the fact is that this Regulation has entered into force. 3. 2012, so this year. This Regulation has brought two things. For the first time, it has somehow established an air corridor between our military airport in Cerklja and the Počko range, partially extended part of the so-called R-3 zone during military operations over Postojna, but in no way limited the travel of aircraft from Portorož airport. The draft of this Regulation or the new airspace arrangements have clearly indicated or regulated the air routes of these tourist aircraft from Portorož and even in the case of the most critical prisons, it is said that, when the Pockets are most carried out, the time needed by the aircraft, for example, from Gradac or Austria to Portorož, shall be extended by 1,5 minutes. So, 1.5 minutes is a longer flight time, which means there are virtually no restrictions. In addition, this Regulation provides that less than 1,000 "feet", which is to say below 350 metres, does not close the airspace, which means that tourist aircraft, when no Počko is closed, can fly at any time. We also prepared a shorter analysis to try to show how many of these prisons were in Poček in 2010, 2011 and this year. In 2010, the average closed airspace over Počk was 32 hours per month, in 2011 34.5 hours and in this year, when this new regulation was in force when we started with the local community, with all those present more agreeing, this prison lasted only 26.8 hours per month. Or on average: in the last two years it lasted six hours a day when it was closed and in this year only five hours. The only exception was the exercise mentioned in June of this year, when the prison actually lasted 9 hours, but it was an international Adriatic Strike exercise, where NATO’s aircraft were in fact involved in this exercise. In the relevant protocols, we have also ensured that any traffic lock can be terminated in the event of fire, emergency transport, emergency medical care or similar conditions at the moment of such closure and the aircraft have a freeway. We have also verified this procedure or such concepts or such facts, and this closure in case of urgency has also proved to be a success.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u230	Here you go, Mr. Chehovin, a supplement to the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u231	I am pleased that the Minister is aware of this problem, and I also think that he has answered this question very correctly. However, I would have a suggestion or actually a proposal in this sense if I paraphrased a slogan that the mobile operator once threw out: We share the sky with the birds. In fact, I would like both military aircraft and civilian aircraft to share this sky for the benefit of all. I would therefore also give you an initiative to actually set up this special airspace management body as soon as possible, which would, in a strategic, tactical, operational sense, ensure that airspace is used as rationally as possible for the benefit of all beneficiaries and that it is included in both local communities and those of the most important clubs and other civil aviation associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u232	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u233	Dear Member! Over the past two months, we have made quite an effort to sit down with all these clubs. I must say, especially the Portorož Airport or the Portorož clubs, we have asked them to submit what they are in pain. I have to say, I haven't gotten this yet. Indeed, the only legitimate complaint or the only justified consequence in force under this Regulation is the issue of a fixed airport or a fixed airport. They're the only ones with these prisons when they happen when they practice, the most affected. That's why we've done more interviews with them. I must say that last time we sat with the Mayor of Postojna on Friday, and together with him, we agreed on how we, together with the airplanes, the airmen, would try to concentrate or get these exercises to a minimum of hours, and in particular to announce them accordingly. The airmen were complaining that, while they knew when, which day of prison would they want to have more segmented sections, from hour to hour, which on our part will not be a problem, we will also do it. But we also agreed that we would focus on these exercises that we have on Poček during the months when there is no tourist season. The seniors have somehow warned that the problem is at the heart of the summer months. I've already ordered the troops to try these exercises in the following year, or these fighting shootings at Poček in those months, such as, say, March, April, and then later, October, November, when the tourist season itself somehow does not require so much open air space. As far as these international exercises are concerned, I must say that even this year it was the only serious big exercise — the one you were talking about — where it was actually a prison for a long time. In the following year, such exercises are not expected or expected, but in the coming years there will certainly be another such exercise, which Nat’s standards require in essence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u234	Here you go. Mrs Tina Komel and the Minister for Infrastructure and Space Mr Zvonko Černač will raise the question. Let me prepare myself, please, Mr. Jože the Great.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u235	Thank you for your word. A lovely greeting to all present on my behalf as well! Minister Černač, despite the fact that we have already heard something about the issue of the second track today, I will also point out this matter, because obviously, if we talk so much about this issue in the National Assembly, this proves to us that we are in favour of this issue and we feel that we care about Slovenian companies, especially those which are state-owned. According to your actions, two explanations are possible: whether you and your government plan to destroy all Slovenian state-owned companies, especially Luka Koper, Slovenian Railways, or whether you really do not know the importance of such a project for our development. We saw that you blocked the construction of the second track of Koper-Givac and awakened accelerated preparations for the construction of the Divač-Trst track. People on the Coast are asking me why. What is positive about Luka Koper and its development, because it is a Slovenian company? The news that the government of Janez Janša has apparently started to promote activities for the construction of the Divača-Trst track opens up several strategic dilemmas and concerns, especially in connection with your recent decision not to ask our country to co-finance the construction of the second track between Divaca and Kopro. Even though the Divača-Trist route is important for maintaining contact with Slovenia with the 5th Corridor, it also holds that its premature construction could even damage the strategic interests of our country. The port of Koper would be in a highly subordinated position compared to the port of marketing, which would have a direct link to the 5th corridor. It would only be linked to land-based Europe by a route that would carry too little cargo per year for the needs of our port. My question is: Why does your ministry not intend to request, within the current financial perspective of the European Union, co-financing the construction of a second track between Divisco and Koper? How will you ensure that you will also give your word that the second track between Kopro and the Divinator will be built faster than the fast track between Trieste and Divinator?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u236	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Regardless of the fact that we have already discussed this issue once today, I think it would be good if we could talk about it 90 times today, but maybe some of it has been caught up in what I said before. I take this opportunity to say once again that these are completely separate projects. The connection of Divac – Trieste is part of the 5th or 6th corridor and the project does not run as it should run or has not run in the past as it should run. I mentioned earlier that this is part of a strategic link within the Baltic or Mediterranean corridor and that this route was established in the long run in 1996. It is a connection from Lyon to Kiev and this piece between Divisco and Trieste is one small part of this connection. Within the framework of the current financial perspective, under TEN funds, this project is intended to prepare studies and placements in the space of EUR 30 million to the Republic of Italy and the Republic of Slovenia, which are already at risk, as up to now a weak million of these funds have been used up. Recently, this brought together a mixed intergovernmental commission, appointed by the Government of the Republic of Italy and by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has accelerated these activities in such a way as to establish a common legal entity with 50:50 ownership by the two so-called directors who decide between 50 and 50. We estimate that this may help to resolve the funds that are earmarked for this project in this financial perspective. This means that the implementation of this link, unfortunately, is still very far and strategically relevant on this axis, as regards the strategic importance of the 5th Corridor for the future development of transport logistics in the Republic of Slovenia. For our benefit, however, for Luke Koper, it is of paramount importance the appropriate connection between Divaca and Kopro, the so-called second track, to provide adequate trans-shipment capacity for the needs of Luke Koper. And also on this project, unfortunately, in the past what would have been right to have been done was not done. In this project, or in this area, the State Spatial Plan was adopted long ago in 2005. I read earlier that the end of last year, on 20 December 2011, in a report from the Commission appointed by the previous Minister to speed up this project, the following writes. I'll quote you. This is what the President of this Commission wrote to former Minister Vlačič: "The situation is critical, which can be described by stating that there is no guarantee that this year will be", this is 2011, "or in 2012 any building permit will be issued for the section of the route on national location 2," in round, "very likely not," the second track is meant. "We appreciate that the projected costs for the entire investment have increased. We propose that, based on PGD projects on day 29. 8. The requirements of 2011 shall be determined by the MORS and Arso as well as by the estimated investment amounts. We warn that the process of obtaining building permits has not yet begun." This was written in December 2011. We have inherited the project in the state we are in, the activities under way to obtain the relevant documentation, the cross-border environmental impact assessment is ongoing, as the Republic of Italy is involved in the process, and we conclude with land acquisition and design processes. I estimate that this second track project will be prepared somewhere within a six-month period of up to one year, operationally, for implementation. It is impossible for us to benefit from this project from this financial perspective because you know that they will fall to the end of next year. Even if we start as our predecessors designed this project, with its implementation in 2014, it will not be realized until 2021, which is too late. The port of Koper needs increased opportunities somewhere by 2017, which is why I have ordered that an interim alternative solution be found to ensure the benefit of the potential that Luka Koper has during this period. Part of this will save the modernisation of the existing line, which will be completed by 2015 and which runs from 72 to 82 trains or from just over 9 thousand transhipments to 14 thousand tonnes, but the needs dictate significantly more. And we're going this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u238	Complementary response, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u239	Thank you for that answer. You know, even if we discuss this 90 times, there's nothing wrong with it, because these are our companies, and we're here to solve these things, because it's our future. We are all aware that the development of Luke Koper is at risk without a second track. However, later development means that countries of the Far East, such as China, Korea, Japan, intending to significantly strengthen transport routes through North Adriatic ports in ten years, find other solutions or other ports. Another route would allow for the growth of the industry, greater flow of goods from Luke to Eastern Europe, and would also reduce carbon dioxide emissions and burden our roads. A total of 98 % of the land for the second track is purchased on the route. The documentation for the project for the acquisition of the building permit has already been produced, except for facilities subject to the completion of the national site plan. The public treatment of these supplements ended in April. There is a danger and there is a high probability that the rail traffic flows will be around us, and we will not be assisted by the strategic position of Slovenia. It is clear from the actions that you give priority to building that will harm us. I asked you earlier: Can you assure us that the second track between Kopro and the Divinator would be built faster than the fast track between the Divinator and Trieste? I think the answer is, "No, I can't give you that." Me like that?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u240	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u241	Thank you very much. A part of what you had written in advance would be good to change, because my answers demented your later statements. I would like both legs to be connected as soon as possible and, above all, as soon as possible, in view of the three years behind we have witnessed in the previous government. I said it wasn't a corridor that would be mutually competitive. The connection of Divac – Trieste is part of a wider corridor, an international corridor, and is extremely important in terms of the provision of transshipment options. And it's not that North Baltic ports are competitive. Far from it! Your conclusion that these traffic flows can cross us, regardless of the strategic position, is correct. I have also said several times today in response to Mr Marinič's question. But this danger is much closer than it seems, is in our immediate neighborhood and is accelerating and will be fully provided by 2021. That is why I have said that it is very important what we will do in these coming years and how quickly we will provide on one hand additional infrastructure options for the transhipment, an increased load to follow in the coming years of Luke Koper. And on the other hand, of course, to modernise the entire network on the 5th corridor, which we have not even begun to modernise in one major part. We are working in this direction to show that this strategic threat, which threatens us, somehow tries to overcome and that with real action, is true with concrete investments and work, we also show all our other neighbours, as well as the wider Europe, that we are serious about this modernisation, that our priority is to modernise the railway connection both at the 5th and consequently at the 10th corridor and to provide adequate infrastructure for our strategic port, Luka Koper. By the way, who was talking about the Trieste-Koper connection? No one from the government talked about this connection. There was no step in this direction either. However, colleagues from the parliamentary types of Social Democracy on the Coast, in the Municipality of Koper, spoke about the fact that this connection between Trieste and Koper should be accepted as the best alternative. That's what I think would be a mistake. And we also intend to ensure this through increased activity on the one hand on the modernisation of the existing link between Divisco and Kopro, in the preparation of a project to upgrade this link and on the other, in order to ensure the modernisation of the entire 5th and 6th corridors, thereby ensuring an increase in transport opportunities across our territory.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Before I give Mr Jožet Veliki the opportunity to ask the Minister of Infrastructure and Space and to prepare Mr Dragan Bosic, I kindly ask the distinguished representatives of the Government, the Minister, the ladies ministers, the distinguished colleagues and colleagues to ask questions and answers - I know that it is difficult - if possible in a friendly tone, even though there may be more questions on a similar subject. Please. Here you go, Mr. Big Guy.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u243	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister Chernač, the distinguished presence in the Chamber! At the end of June, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment held a meeting in Zagor ob Savi. The Committee presented the main solutions to the operational programme for the protection of the external air against dust pollution, which also include Zasavje on the basis of the measurements carried out by the competent agency. It was concluded that such an operational programme was suitable for public hearing. However, the level of resources in the budget balance is projected to be only €3.7 million by 2015 to implement these measures. This is certainly not enough for the urgent part of the rehabilitation in Slovenia. Even more worrying is the fact that the Public Finance Balance Act provides for the financing of the closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia until 2015 of only EUR 22 million, or as much as 44 million less than it is in the roof programme. The environmental-space remediation of degraded areas in the mine's mining area of approximately 14,000 hectares is crucial, but with such an approach impossible. Inside these surfaces, the mine must also perform the final rehabilitation of abandoned surface trenches, abandoned quarrying and heifers, in addition to the rest of the rehabilitation. I can argue that pollution of the environment also with dust particles from abandoned mining areas is essential for recovery. The Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine is closing under the 2000 law. The law was adopted as a result of a referendum decision not to build a TET 3. Under the law, all the necessary roof documentation was produced, which was also reviewed by a foreign operator. The contents of the mine closure project have been confirmed. The Mining Act lays down precisely the conditions to be met before the mining organisation can suspend exploitation and apply for a certificate of compliance with the obligations of the concession contract. The 2012 budget rebalancing also confirms in its content the statutory objectives. Therefore, Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik, on the basis of the accepted ZUJF and the rebalancing, prepared a starting point for the development of a new three-year programme and warned the owner of the advantages and weaknesses of individual variants. In all variants, the issue of the inability to perform the most necessary statutory works is raised, which means that the contractor needs guidance from the competent ministry as soon as possible for the scope of the annual programmes to be implemented, including other resources, and the target date for the final closure of the mine, including spatial ecological recovery. When will these starting points be known?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u244	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u245	Thank you very much for that question. As you said, this process has been going on somewhere since 2000 and during this period from about 2000 to this year, some 168 million euros from the State budget have been earmarked for the implementation of all programme activities related to the closing parts of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the rest of the recovery from the state budget. The programmes following which the closing works were carried out in Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine were confirmed at each stage by the Government and the management of the mine was responsible for the preparation of the annual programmes by which the work was carried out and also for prioritisation. We estimate that, in this context and in view of the resources available, a more optimal spatial and ecological recovery could be carried out. However, on the other hand, management has explained in the past that there have been unforeseen situations in the cave that require immediate action and also funds for them. Thus, the funds and part of these funds, which would otherwise have been used for spatial recovery on the basis of these arguments of the mining management, were also used for other activities. From the data I have gathered here after individual years, it is clear that in the first phase of the closure, the realization at the eco-space rehabilitation site was less than planned, about 38%, while the costs of closing the caves exceeded the expected realization and reached index 110. The derogations were also recorded in the second phase of the recovery, the period between 2005 and 2009. At the time, the realisation at the spatial and ecological rehabilitation site was around 54% and the costs of closing the caves were exceeded by 26% and 126 respectively. This negative trend then continued during the third phase of the closure, in the past two years, 2010 and 2011, where the index in the field of remedial works was recorded with 17 % of implementation. In view of the public financial situation this year, and also in light of the activities previously undertaken in this project, it was somehow agreed that we should do two things: management is expected to prepare a new phase three programme this year. Of course, this task is even more difficult in view of the acute situation, as we anticipate that in the coming years seven and the next two years two times five million Euros should be provided for this purpose. On the basis of this programme, we will, of course, be able to assess whether this recovery will be appropriate and successful or not, and also to identify activities in relation to the necessary work in this regard. According to the law, Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik can also provide his own funds for closing works; in 2000-2011, the mine allocated a total of around EUR 7 million 250 000, some 4% of the funds allocated for these works in the years 2000-2011. It should also be said that, since 2001, State aid for the security of electricity supply in this area, namely the Thermoelectric Trbovlje, has also been allocated. Indirectly, these funds subsidise the supply of coal to the TET. In short, if I finish, it's basically kind of a final phase of rehabilitation, a final period that's very important. It is also important because it will have to be done in a rather tight financial situation. Internal reserves will also need to be sought. Some procedures in terms of the search for internal reserves where we can also help as a ministry with certain activities have already been accelerated or initiated. As you know, discussions are under way on the ownership of the mine's dwellings with the active participation of the Republic Housing Fund, which is 100 % of the country's property. In any case, we expect the active role of leadership, initiative, a programme that must be rational and which is expected to lead to the final objective in these financial frameworks.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u246	Mr Dragan Bosic will ask the question. Get ready. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry, there was no response, so I thought you decided not to supplement it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u247	Thanks for the answer. I believe that, with the said financial derogation up and down, physical reorganisation has also followed in the same direction. In order to reduce the harmful effects of the abandonment of energy in Zasavje and to appreciate the closures, Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik also has a project to dig up the Brnica mine. In 2013 and 2014, the project would reduce the required amount of funds to close the mine by €4.2 million. At the same time, it would reduce the negative impact of the restructuring of the mine in all the following years, as the project would employ about 80 to 100 workers. For the project Brnica, Rudnik produced a study confirming its economics. He also obtained a legal opinion confirming the possibility of launching the project, despite the fact that Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik has not yet obtained an exemption from the cadastral production areas in Brnice. These facts are crucial for the development of a new medium-term mine closure programme, and they are certainly an important segment of the plans for the continuation of energy in Zasavje. The project coincides with the advantages of heating cheaper domestic coal in the Termoelectrica Trbovlje, which would reduce the price of electricity by restoring the boiler, and this would also be more environmentally appropriate than before. That's why I want to know: Whether the competent ministry envisages, in the light of austerity measures, financing closures also for mine disinvestment and thus ensuring the implementation of the legally necessary amount of closures, while at the same time allowing cheaper, safe and definitive closure of the mine and continuing time and environment-appropriate energy to address the problem of over-pollution of the plant with PM10
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u248	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u249	Thank you very much for this additional question. This initiative has been present for some time, and it has also been given in an official manner. We are seriously studying these ambitions or questions, but we need to be aware that not everything is within our purview. These are questions that are of wider importance. The issues related to European regulation are also, in some ways, long-term issues of how to deal with the environment. All of these will be weighed by autumn and, in line with the starting points, which will be expertly evaluated, a decision will also be taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u250	Mr Dragan Bosnic will put the question to the Minister without a department responsible for Slovenians in place and around the world, Mrs Ludmili Novak. Get ready, Mr. Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u251	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Before asking a question, I would like to apologize if there could be any awkwardness, given the fact that I have not invested 25,000 euros in Slovenian, says I am a self-learner, and if the language may be distasteful, you can remind me. I'm going to ask the question first, and then I'm going to explain the individual parts of this question. Dear Minister, in accordance with the Government Act, your activity is related to article 14 of the Slovenian Relations Act with Slovenians beyond its borders, Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm asking you: Are your responsibilities in the performance of the tasks sufficient? Should responsibilities be extended in particular areas of competence? I will now make a point for these questions, for there have been events and activities that have led me to this question. First visit to Maribor. By the way, I hope you enjoyed Maribor because, as I recall, you attended the first high school and probably took a walk along the Partizan road to General Maistre Square and looked at Beauty on Maistre Square. But the question concerns something else. In fact, you were among the more burdened ministers, although you are the Minister without a resource, by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, by the Director of Tourism and even by the Director of the Library. In fact, the Director of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry sees you as competent to accelerate the promotion of Slovenian products and businesses, namely, the view that they are poor marketing, the lack of knowledge of Slovenian quality of a major obstacle to the penetration of domestic companies in foreign markets. So, I'm just taking this as one of the specific loads. Second thing. You have a register and an online directory of scientists abroad. In view of the fact that the brain escape is an obvious fact, I am interested in: Can you record all these scientists who are leaving Slovenia? By the way, I was talking to one before the time. And the third thing. Your party's core programme to the people is that tolerance does not mean that all views are equivalent or that all life-styles must receive the same legal and state support. I want to know: Is this also true for Slovenians in place and if they are all treated in the same way or only those who have the right lifestyle as defined in the booklet?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u252	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u253	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, my fellow Members! Dear Mr Bosic, I am pleased that you have also intervened in my field with your question. My area of work is very wide, so I have to work with various ministries, and we are particularly working intensively with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The current law provides to a sufficient extent for my powers under this function, so that I do not feel the need to extend these powers. Of course, we also have a cooperation agreement with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We will briefly recast this agreement or are already preparing it and will also sign a new agreement with the Foreign Minister on closer cooperation in a short time. My work also interferes with the areas of education, science, economies in this sense, because we want the office to be that intersection, that intermediary of various data and the possibilities of integration. As a result, I also convened a meeting at the time of the government visit to the Podravski region. This meeting was attended by representatives of economic organisations from the switchboard, followed by the presence of the President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Tourist Association and some other organisations, with a view to getting to know each other, to establish contacts. In the future, we will also organise a conference with the aim of making substitution organisations that deal with the economy even more intensively with organisations in Slovenia. We had this kind of advice in Grosuplje in June. He turned out to be extremely good. In cooperation with the Municipality of Grosuplje and the neighbouring municipalities, the Regional Chamber of Commerce and Industry and representatives of economic organisations of all four neighbouring countries, where Slovenian communities live, we have organised such a consultation, which has proved to be very useful, all with a view to better cooperation in the future. Similarly today, one such consultation was held in the National Assembly on the use of European funds or on how to improve the involvement of partners in various projects. It has always been shown that we have complex administrative procedures in Slovenia, that this is how our partners from Italy, Austria and even Hungary complain and that this cooperation needs to be improved. By not having a legal obligation in these areas, I feel obliged or I want the Office to help make contacts with these different organisations, all with the aim of helping to improve economic cooperation, and also to help to better interconnect scientists. That is why there is this list of scientists, and we want to complement it, and in cooperation with the World Slovenian Congress, which is preparing a conference on the theme of the integration of young scientists, we also encourage and wish that the knowledge of Slovenians living abroad or in the place of destination would be useful for us in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u254	Here you go, complement the answer, Mr. Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u255	One part was left unanswered, namely the part where I reminded you of the item in the basic programme close to people who say that tolerance does not mean – I would not repeat it now – that all views are equal and that all lifestyles must be treated equally. In fact, Article 5 of the Constitution states in Article 14, and Article 3 of the Basic Constitutional Charter that respect for diversity. And this is where I'm worried, so I'm like, As the minister who swears to the law and the constitution, can you guarantee this to all Slovenians?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u256	Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u257	Thank you for that additional question. I must say, you did not mention this earlier that I would also bring our basic programme and look at the context in which this was written, as you have just quoted. In any event, the New Slovenia programme is oriented towards respecting the values of fundamental, human, common human, democratic values and we do not support any discrimination. And also in my work as Minister for Slovenians in place and around the world, I am trying to treat all foreign organisations and other institutions equally, evenly, to the greatest extent possible, and I believe that I have received certain incentives, praises, so that I am certainly putting equality first here.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u258	Mr Branko Ficko will ask the question. Mr. Bosic, procedurally. You probably want to do it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u259	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 246(2). I agree that you may not have seen the context because the question is a question. But maybe it would be right if you saw this context so you could answer me in writing. I'd be happy with that answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u260	So you don't want a debate, you just asked for a written answer. We're moving on. Mr Branko Ficko will ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franc Bogovic. Let me prepare myself, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u261	Thank you for your word. Because now is the time for a good dinner, for some pigfish, of course of Slovenian origin, and a homemade tomato, I will go to the topic of food. The global situation shows that food will become a key geostrategic raw material in the coming decades and will guide our future with water. The national priority should be to increase food security and self-sustainment. Slovenia imports €800 million of food annually, of which it is most pig meat and vegetables. Self-sustainment is the worst in these product groups. And I'd like to ask the Minister: Which product groups will receive special attention in Slovenian agricultural policy? With what concrete measures will we accelerate them? When is it time to expect the first results? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u262	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u263	Thank you for the question, which is very broad. As you said, I am also pleased that in recent years, everything since the start of the financial and food crisis around the world started in 2008 has become increasingly clear throughout the world that this is a strategic issue. As you mentioned, along with water, energy and security, general military security, we are talking about these three security – food, energy and military security. And more and more people are aware of that. Part of European agricultural policy is also clear and speaks for the first time with a very clear vocabulary that self-sustainment must be ensured to the greatest extent possible, both in the EU and within each country, and that each country must also take care of itself in this direction. In Slovenia this level of self-sustainment is very different across sectors. According to Dr. Rednak, who has been preparing these reports annually for many years, according to various evaluation parameters, his assessment is that this self-sustainment in the Slovenian space is at a level of 68.70%. As you have already said, this is a mixture of some data where we know that this is higher in animal products in particular, with the exception of pig meat, which has fallen from 85, 70 to 50% in recent years, while in other sectors we are more or less self-sustained. A major problem is thus in the area of vegetables, where this percentage is the lowest. In 2011, according to the Agricultural Institute, it was slightly improved to 37%. In cereals, we are also at the level of 70% of those who are weak, such as 55% wheat. On this basis, they are preparing sectoral policies that are more or less in the final phase. A section of the situation and what needs to be done in each sector has been created in different areas. The measures that we will now take on the basis of the situation report must be translated into a rural development programme and a common agricultural policy 2014-2020. It is at this very time that this process is in which the groups that have made sectoral policies meet. Last week, such a meeting was held with representatives of the Agricultural Institute, colleges, individual carriers, advisory services and we are trying to set up measures that will support what needs to be done in the rural development programme, which is quite free and can be designed by ourselves. Which way are the measures going? The first is definitely a breakthrough in the search for knowledge. Slovenia is lagging behind in this area, especially in the transfer of knowledge, we need to do significantly different things, strengthen these competent centres in practice, know how to make technology transfer, development support, focus in one part on those sectors where we assess that promotion and integration is a key problem. And this is also one of the basic guidelines that we will start this year with the De minimis programme where we can, and we have a plan to have a call for 500 000 euros for vegetables, organic agriculture, fruit growing and pig farming, encourage those environments where they will begin to connect to cooperate in the area of integration. We are also adequately preparing the groundwork for the rural development programme, for structural support. To give priority to such groups in action. One of the important issues is the future insurance of agricultural risks. We are talking about the risks associated with elementary disasters, counter-current protection, irrigation system, it is said, a package of ground operations that we need to support. On the other hand, a package of ways to reduce the risks of dealing with a possible mutual insurance undertaking or to reduce this because they are linked to an acceptable climate. The next conclusion, which we need to substantially change and critically look at ourselves, is full administrative support for this work, it is said, of the services that we are financing from the country and make an excellent level of this service, transfer of practice from abroad. So much in those five minutes, which I can say in the first part. If you ask an extra question, I'll have something else to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u264	Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u265	It's obviously not enough time, and we're gonna have to take him and the minister for some kind of dinner for specific information. However, I did not expect to receive an answer to the piggy, and if we want to have our own pig meat in Slovenia, we will work on the model of the other European countries that grant subsidies or subsidies to the pig. However, if we went to greenery for a little while, if we increased Slovenia's self-sustainment by 1%, we could provide a thousand jobs, we could primarily tie it to social entrepreneurship and the European Social Fund has an estimated €50 million in the financial perspective. The Ministry has written down only EUR 10 million in total. I wonder why there's a 40 million difference left, so if we don't take advantage of it, we'll probably have to return it? At the same time, the EUR 220 million already being distributed in agriculture this year, most are likely to be linked to direct subsidies and the solution could be to bind certain subsidy measures to food production, which would not only be produced but mainly marketed, saying that subsidies should be the same as incentives, the result should be a larger volume sold, specifically linked to the individual invoice and to goods sold in Slovenia. I'd like to ask you, Minister, for your opinion on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u266	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u267	First of all, let me start right now on this last question so we don't run out of time. Many would also listen to and follow your logic when designing measures, because I think this would be most effective in the Slovenian case. Unfortunately, we are mainly in this first pillar, because it is linked to payments to the surface related to the common agricultural policy, within which this principle, which you have just mentioned, is simply no longer tolerated. The measures, which were linked to production, will have a maximum of 15 % in the first pillar. In this part, you can correct certain national specifications in one part and from here on you must no longer go on a production-related basis. This is due to the pressure of the OECD or the World Trade Organisation to European agriculture, and therefore this transition, which was fully productive in agricultural policy from the 1970s to the 1980s, was then the transition to the transformation and transition of agriculture to environmental measures. This next financial perspective is a perspective in which these greening measures will only have to be continued. Another area is the rural development programme. Here's about half the money we have at our disposal. In this part, however, there is room for our policy, the one that I mentioned earlier, to identify, on the basis of the existing situation, what are the greatest shortcomings, and with direct support we support individual sectors, individual integrations. Agriculture is a typical example. I can say that in the sector policy of agriculture, the Ministry went so far that for every culture, for example, tomato, paprika, cucumbers, these three key cultures, after months, we found out how much imports into Slovenia were, what was the price of imports into Slovenia. Finding out and finally answering whether the power is — I don't know — I show from the example which is very up to date — in a bottle in Pomurje with the use of geothermal water to produce competitive vegetables. In such a case, we can peacefully set up a measure that we will support. The calculation goes so far that the data is now that we have about 30 hectares of greenhouses that would still be made according to this pattern, such as these four, the key four industries in agriculture more or less covered. And with the measures we want to follow literally to find out where we can also create the most jobs in our data per hectare of surface. It is known that these intensive industries, such as agriculture, are also fruit growing in one part, and where we have good conditions to establish this. The pigpen has special measures, now one out of the way for the modernisation of barns. On the other hand, there is also the preparation of a scheme where additional environmental measures could also increase the quality scheme. The matter will be very exact in autumn, and in October we are planning the last such rural parliament in which everything will be presented and will be the basis for next year when it will be final [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u268	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u269	Although I will not propose a broader debate, Mr Minister, dinner in Prekmurje with Slovenian pork and tomato is valid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u270	Dear Mr Ficko, in the future, this debate needs to be held in the very beginning, as the word is now intended exclusively for a proposal for a public debate. Let's move on. Mr Jožef Horvat will ask the Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar a question. Let's get ready, mags. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u271	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister, Madam Ministers! Dear Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar, we both know that we are living in a period of major business changes brought about by the progress of information technology. Violent global processes are taking place, which are turning selected companies into successful companies and completely rejecting the rest. When I talk about business, of course, in this case I mean the processes and informationisation of processes carried out in the framework of ministerial departments or the whole government. We probably also agree that Slovenia has fantastic reserves here. The E-Health project was foreseen in the 2006-2012 development programme plan, which was adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia with the 2008 and 2009 budget. I know that because I was there. Although the system is already in implementation and much work has already been done and too much money has been spent, I think it would make sense at this stage to answer a few questions about the integrated concept and what we really want. In all information systems, the wish and final objective are to store the data once in one place and to find the user information he needs as soon as possible. Users, 14 hospitals, two university clinical centres and health homes existing information systems, which are not integrated and therefore poorly effective, are paying too much. The main question is what kind of information system do we want for hospitals and health homes? Currently, according to my information, we have four hospital systems and at least five health care systems. My opinion is that in Slovenia we only need one system, only one integrated system, in which everyone will be integrated for all health activities. This allows everyone, both in the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, the Ministry of Health, the Institute for Health Protection, to integrate into such a system and to use the data needed for analysis and planning and development strategies, and this is also possible for all hospitals and health homes involved in this system. Mr. Secretary, I ask you: What is your scenario here, I mean the timeline and the financial framework, the final implementation of the integrated information system of Slovenian health care? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u272	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u273	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you for asking. Indeed, in the field of computer science in Slovenian health care there is a great deal of confusion. And it is also true that the EHealth project has been going on for many years and that in all these years it has been extremely small. And it is also true that many health institutions have their own and only their own solutions as regards the information system. Here perhaps we have recently taken one step towards the realization of this E-Health project. The purpose of this project is more: we want to connect healthcare providers, we want to link the primary level, the secondary level, of course also all other services such as the Institute of Health Care, the Institute of Health Care, the concessionaires to the payer, it is said, with the Institute of Health Insurance for Cost Control. We also want to establish a link with relevant institutions abroad, given that we will soon also have free movement of patients and will also need information support as regards data. However, it is also clear that the main purpose of creating a system that will be user-friendly is to call itself both the performers and the people we need. This means applications such as electronic ordering, electronic recipe, electronic keeping of the register of vaccinated persons and so on. There's a lot of these apps. A standing invitation to tender was issued at that time. Offers will open up, and I think that if there were no major complications, the choice would be made in August. This is the so-called interoperable backbone of the system, which will allow for the connectivity of the system as a whole, all operators, all the different systems currently available, but with the appropriate interfaces between them, are said to be. And this is foreseen by the end of this year. And on the basis of this electronic link, they then come into the series of applications of the individual things that I listed, at the beginning certainly e-reception and e-ordering and so on. We have had – given that this project has been going on for several years and that it has been unsuccessful – last week or in the last two weeks also a presentation by a German group working in many of the countries that have introduced these systems. We know that Croatia has bought a simple system and has an e-reception in it. I also told this group that if these calls are still unsuccessful, it is probably worth considering not re-created ourselves, the last opportunities we have now at our disposal, in my opinion, so that we can decide on the invitation to tender and buy the system from the one that it has already developed around the world. Here we are now on two paths, depending on the invitation to tender, what will be the decision for future work. Of course, a group that is part of a new design claims to have solutions and we will see within a month whether this is really the right way. However, it is a project for which the Ministry and I, as well as directly responsible, are financed by the European Community. In view of the possibilities offered by this project, we are also obliged to implement it as soon as possible, given that it actually brings not only opportunities for rationalisation but also some kindness to users and performers.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u274	Mag. Katarina Hočevar will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs mag. Andrei Vissiak. Please, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u275	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, ministerial council, Madam Minister! Dear Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs! Labour market reform is the most important challenge of this mandate. For a long time, the economy has been telling us that we can wait a little while for the agreement of the social partners on pensions and improvement of the public health system, and the labour market needs to be modernised now. In the Civil Gazette, we understand that the Labour Relations Act, which was adopted ten years ago, does not allow the degree of competitiveness that our economy needs right now. We have been able to learn from the media that in this area you anticipate the elimination of the gap between a fixed-term and indefinite-term employment contract and the unification of more flexible forms of work. The aim that you want to achieve with this, if I understand you correctly, is to eliminate duality in the labour market. So that certain forms of work for employers will not be more attractive than others. I would like to know, Mr. Secretary-General: Have you prepared analyses or calculations at your Ministry of Finance on the possible public financial effects of such changes? Can you assure us that these changes will not deepen the public financial deficit? In addition to this, I am interested in: What are your plans with your student work? Are we going to know the old form of student work or will student work be part of the so-called single system? With the Public Finance Balance Act, we have increased student work concession fees, and in this way also somehow increased student work's competitiveness in comparison with the employment contract. What are the students who want to join the labour market waiting for tomorrow, distinguished minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u276	Thank you. The Honourable Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u277	Your Honor, thank you very much for these two questions. First of all, where I end up faster, that's about college work. The reform of the labour market does not provide for interventions into student work, which does not mean that we are not aware of the need to intervene in this segment, but we do not want to bind it now to the reform of the labour market that we anticipate. In the second phase, solutions will come in terms of bringing the burden of all types of work closer in a comparable way, if I simplify, the substitute for this concession by paying contributions to a certain extent of both health and pension rights. As far as labour market reform is concerned. You probably did not only learn about the reform from the media, because the government has adopted the starting points of the social agreement and also a proposal for a text of the social agreement, which also contains those directions that you spoke about. The aim is to reform the labour market. This is not merely an articulation with the public, but also an official position of the Government in this direction, namely, the goal of eliminating segmentation or dualism in the labour market is, of course, due to the existing situation we have. On the one hand, we have a great deal of security for those who have been employed in the economy and in the economy for an indefinite period of time, and on the other hand one wild flexibility for those first-time job seekers, especially young or older workers who lose their jobs either through bankruptcy or for other reasons. These rules cannot, as a rule, lead to an indefinite period of employment, be bound by fixed-term contracts or even by other means, work under a contract of work, including through the opening of espies and the like. In short, it is very difficult to dissuade employers from the opportunities they have, so of course we intend to reduce this segmentation by measures that we have already prepared, such as a single fixed-term contract. You asked me how. That's not the only thing. This measure should also be accompanied by efforts to reduce procedural bureaucratic barriers to both employment and employment. In fact, we want to balance on the one hand the security of employment through the contract, the single fixed-term contract, and, on the other hand, to give employers flexibility to do so quickly and effectively in the event that there are existing reasons for failure of employment. I think that it is in the interest not only of employers, but also of workers, that, in fact, some relationships, if there are, of course, legitimate reasons for this, are regulated as effectively as possible. In fact, this is what employers expect, and I am sure it can also encourage employers to work. Today we know the same reason why employers no longer work for an indefinite period of time – even because they do not know what will happen to them in one year, two years from now, whether they will still have a job in these uncertain times of crisis – and if, in fact, they also have instruments at their disposal to adapt to their business, even as employees, it encourages them to work. You asked what happened to the public finances. We foresee in these public financial implications the benefits of the budget, of course. These are in particular those that all types of work would be taxed or paid similar contributions from them, in short, in order to avoid certain jobs that constitute the dumping of visa costs. On the other hand, we also foresee some additional burdens on the budget. However, it will be a positive asset for public finances by providing a slightly bolder employment and thus more people in a working relationship than ever before. This is the assumption and objective of this recast to increase labour market flexibility on the one hand while ensuring some decent security of employment for those entering this labour market.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u278	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u279	Thank you, Minister, for this part of the answer. I'd like to ask you: Is it possible that because of easier employment or more courageous employment, as you have stated, you are also expecting less grey economy and less work to be done in black? So much for this part. As far as student work is concerned, I would like to ask you more specifically: Is it true that in the future it is anticipated that students who will work through the so-called travel vouchers that we now know will also be somehow covered by health insurance or that their work will be counted during the retirement period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u280	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u281	Thank you very much for this supplementary question. Once again, student work is not subject to reform of this work, but my ideas go in the direction that the burden of this student work would be comparable to the burdens of other forms, just a little lower, let's say it would be a little more stimulating, but not that it would be a substitute for regular employment because it is happening today. I do not think that this is good for young job seekers, nor is it fair that such a form of work is also available on a relatively wide scale as it has been so far. You have also pointed out the important problem that we want to overcome with this reform of this work, which is to reduce the grey economy and employment to the line. Yes, positive effects are also expected here with the recast of labour law. In fact, if we make regular employment closer to the employer, closer to the employer's needs to make better use of these forms, this has a positive impact on the level of employment on the line, because, of course, these forms will be smaller, but we do not just foresee this measure to reduce the grey economy and work in black. Let me give you another one. This is that within these proposals, which we have made very clear, there is also the possibility of intervention of so-called temporary and occasional works by the Employment Office. We do not repeat the error and anticipate a small part of the unemployed person, but only when the Employment Office is intervened. What does that mean? In order for all of us to search for occasional, temporary work, older people, many of us occasionally need some help, and through the office we can get this workforce available. This is, of course, for those now working in black or in any way engaged in black, at the same time reported a certain disorder, because they will have to respond to the agency’s instructions and will not have the time to do both at the same time, and this will also allow them to identify more of these forms. Then it is also our desire to strengthen our control of this with the staff of the Customs Administration. Indeed, with the fall of the border there will be quite a number of people available, they are also qualified and can help to detect and prevent the grey economy or employment in black.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u282	Mr Ivan Hršak will ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question. Andrei Vissiak. Please prepare Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u283	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Above all, in the so - called developed countries, the rule that children care for their elderly parents has not been self - imposed for some time, nor has it been different in our country. This is due to a modern way of life and the resulting problem of lack of time. Given the demographic trend of population ageing, low or even negative natural growth, increasing pressure on providing organised long-term care or care is understandable. Of course, long - term care is not limited to the elderly but also to the younger ones in the population who, due to such or different circumstances, cannot take care of themselves. Therefore, there is an increasing demand for long-term care services, where it is up to countries to adapt their policies to new situations and needs in this area. This is also the case with our country, which, unlike many other countries, does not yet have regulated special long-term care insurance, but is regulated through various sectoral laws, since the latter includes a range of health and social services. My specific question to the Minister is. In the Republic of Slovenia, the Long-Term Care and Insurance Act has been in preparation for the last few years. The proposal for a law had already been drafted, apparently already in 2009, and was also coordinated, but the adoption of the law had never taken place. I'm specifically interested in: What stage of adoption is this law? What is the main problem that has not yet been adopted? When can we finally expect the law to be adopted? I thank the Minister very much for his clear and concrete reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u284	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u285	I'm happy to answer all three questions in 30 seconds. First of all, it's the law's phase. It is again in cross-cutting coordination, because it is very important in connection with the reform of the health system, because it is a matter of multiple forms of insurance, both for health insurance, long-term care and the like. What's the main problem? Money. In fact, this long-term supply costs enormously and, as a result, it is very difficult to guarantee all rights, because the contribution rate would be astronomical if we wanted to do so. And third, when we're expecting a hearing. In the early months of next year, the matter will be dealt with by the Government on time, as we now have. I hope I've answered all three of these questions. Now it's a little wider. This year is the year of intergenerational cooperation and solidarity. I no longer belong to the younger category, nor do I belong to the one that needs long-term care. I am somewhere in the middle and I can be very critical to this intergenerational solidarity and cooperation in Slovenia. Older ones are often burdened by young people, and this is unjustifiable. I think that, even through the adoption of this legislation, through public debate on this legislation, we should devote more time to the issues of intergenerational solidarity. If the older generation cared for, educated, raised a young generation, brought her to work, then it is likely that she deserves a decent age, especially if she leaves everything to the generation that brought her into the world. However, this self-confidence is obviously not always and everywhere, so there are questions as to the extent to which public funds finance this long-term care and, of course, this debate is here today. Nevertheless, the problem of aging society is present, we cannot hide and cover our eyes against the problem. However, the existing system of long-term care in Slovenia needs to be extended considerably in terms of what we have. Today, only two forms of this long - term care are more or less known, one is the institutional protection of the elderly in nursing homes and the other is called help at a developing home and almost nothing else. At this point, I would like to publicly commend the project carried out by the Association of Retired Associations, which is the project Older for Older Persons, where active and vital pensioners care for their colleagues on a voluntary basis, only when they cover certain material costs. They take care of those who expect or no longer require a visit to certain areas of these needs, and talk to the elderly is huge, especially when faced with loneliness. And if we develop a whole range of services from this minimum form to institutional care and focus them on the needs of an individual, we can also make this matter more rational and economical. Of course, as I have already said, these services must be highly linked to the existing rights enjoyed by older people or all of them in the field of health insurance, so I cannot imagine that this system, including the long-term care insurance system, would go through or parallel to the compulsory health insurance system, as a major part of the services for older people would also take place through health care and is therefore somewhat related to the reform of the health system and will be produced with it. Indeed, proposals for additional insurance and additional contributions are also on the table. For the purposes of extending the range of offers and financing arrangements, we are looking forward to a solution in the second half of this year, or a hearing in the Government at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u286	Mr Matjaž Han will ask the question. Let's get ready, please, mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. Mr Han asks the Minister of Justice and Public Administration, Dr Senk Plitchanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u287	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear ministers and colleagues, who still insist! Today, I have already asked one question about what the government will do to bring the economy back to life in some way, and that it will not weaken the social picture in the congregations. Now I also ask Mr. Plitzenic: How can the country directly help or worsen the social picture in the congregation? After the establishment or bankruptcy of production in Radeča Paperhouse, where we lost 250 jobs, after having had two bankruptcys in the last period, where we also lost some 100 jobs, in Radeč and the wider area, this time the news we read in the daily newspaper about the closure of the educational home in Radeče. If the educational home in the Radeče congregation is closed, there will be 54 employees left without work in our congregation. I believe that the fear of employees and others in this wider area is justified. But in the future, if there was no longer any doubt, I would ask you, Your Honor, What is your long - term vision or view of the location of the educational home in our congregation, Radeče? Within the framework of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, a juvenile educational home operates, where minors have been assigned by means of educational measures to the Reeducational House in Radeče for several decades. Although the number of breeders is staggering, regardless of the number of breeders, these young people need to be helped and found the right way. After all these years, the local community has welcomed this home, and I must say that relations between farmers, citizens and citizens are more than excellent. And as I have already announced in the question forecast, the care and sensitivity of the local community as well as in the wider area of news about the closure of an office, at home, of the services that the state has, is highly justified. The news that Radeče’s Home of Education is being closed and that it can result in the loss of 54 employees is one of these disturbing news. Especially if this happens in an environment where there have recently been quite a few bankruptcys. Dear Minister, I ask you: What is your thinking, your government thinking, your minister, and how do you feel about the location of our production house in Radeč? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u288	Thank you so much for asking. For your answer, Minister, Dr. Shadow Plitschanič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u289	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Mr Han, let me reassure you immediately, this information is not accurate, so at the Ministry we do not intend to close the Radeca Breeding House and not in the near future. However, I must say that if we are talking about a long-term vision, that we will have to find another alternative location, because the facility in which the Radecé Breeding House is located has already been returned in one part to the denationalisation beneficiary, this is the daughter of the Christian love of St. Vincenzo Pavelski, at the same time as the procedure for the return of the second part, is under way by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. A rental contract has been concluded with the denationalising beneficiary and will not be terminated for at least three years. But somewhere in the near future, the rest will also be returned and it will probably be necessary to find another solution, even if the monthly rent for this facility is EUR 10 000 887. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Do you have a request to complete the response? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u291	Thank you very much. You know that saying? One who is a snake of prey is also afraid of twisted ropes. We must say that we are concerned about this moment for every job in the Radeče Congregation. However, I must say that, although I am not most reassured by the fact that we are likely to lose this home for a foster home in the coming years. However, I would like to remind you that we are one home, which is a penal-improvement home in 1990 already lost where more than 100 people were employed. There was agriculture in this house, there were 500 heads of livestock, and it worked well, and because of denationalizations, because of this same thinking of this barn, all the machines have been failing for 20 years. If in some way the state decides to leave this educational home in Radeč, which the state has returned to these sisters, there will be another building that will fail. I invite you, Minister, to take a look at these objects and perhaps with these objects and perhaps even with the purchase of these ladies, you will find some kind of long-term vision of these sisters, because the location in Radeč is acceptable. I regret, however, that the government, the previous government of John Janša 12 days before its withdrawal from power, returned these objects to nature, not otherwise. As a result, these sisters got it all back together, and today in some ways some other objects that they also got back are sadly failing. Although I thank you for your answer, I invite you to visit the Radeče Congregation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u292	Would you like to give an additional answer? You are of the opinion that there is no need and Mr Han obviously agrees because he has given more initiative in the second part. Thank you very much. Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has a question for Defence Minister Aleš Hojs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u293	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, at your meeting in May you have answered my question, and I will quote you: "In the second part of the coalition agreement, the coalition has undoubtedly committed itself to desiring to save and desiring to make the state administration leaner, to reorganise the functioning of the regional information centres." And you wanted to be even clearer. You added, quote again: "You will probably agree that in modern communication society it does not really matter where someone sits and picks up the phone", end of the line. The last, you know, minister really makes me think that, for the first time, you don't know part of the regional information and organizational structures of protection and rescue in our country, or you don't want to know them on purpose. In recent days, you have received several calls against the envisaged reorganisation. Among other things, the mayors of all affected municipalities require you to withdraw from this measure. All the professions, firefighters, paramedics, emergency medical doctors are in place. Your action poses a serious threat to human security. Minister, number 112 in our country saves lives, so it's still important where someone sits and how qualified a worker who picks up the phone at the time of the accident. When it comes to helping a man whose life is at risk, they count on minutes, not political will, minutes, minister! With 1. 7. you have cancelled night shifts in six regional centres: Murska Sobota, Novo mesto, Postojna, Slovenj Gradec, Ptuj, Trbovlje. One of the advantages that you are making to end night shifts is that you are not actually changing, at least formally, regional organisations, to avoid political pressure. And it's sad that the only thing you're interested in doing is the political pressure that you're going to do it under the table. Minister, I'm asking you: Why is there a need for reorganisation? What's wrong with the calculations? How much will you save in this way? And when we're talking about saving, by the way, let's mention the amount of what it'll cost you to rename the barracks, to have a comparison of how much human life is worth to you on the one hand and how much political ignorance and your political ego are worth to you on the other. What will be the consequences of the reorganisation? Because in the media, you like to ensure that users do not feel any change. Is that true, and on what basis did you come to these conclusions? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u294	I ask for the answer of Minister Aleš Hojs.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u295	Dear Member, I will begin with just those questions or answers that you have quoted from me. Then, if you remember, you somehow politically expressed a lot of distress or dismay that we started to think about having certain information centres, I'm talking only about information centres, in the next period we're going to shut down. And if what you're saying is that in the first phase, I've cut off only night shifts because I'm afraid of political pressure, it's not true. I, honourable Member, have already told you on the first answer I have given you, that certain centres will be abolished in the near future. However, they will be abolished because of three things; for the first time since 2008 the Directorate for Protection and Rescue has recorded a drastic reduction in budgetary resources. This reduction increased this year to an additional 113 million for the entire ministry. Of course, most of the burden has been borne by the military, and a smaller part has also been taken over by the Protection and Rescue Board. Secondly, because the Public Finance Balance Act and I have done exactly what you quoted, so we want to make the state administration more subtle, more efficient, less expensive. And thirdly, because we're so committed to the coalition contract. If before, I mean, a month and a half, I was trying to explain, obviously bad, the burden ratio of individual centres when it was a question of why we were shutting down your centre in the Rippers, I said that this is a burden ratio of 1:5. So about five times more burdened are the most burdened centres than the centre, such as, say, in Zasavje and in Trbovje. In view of the fact that I have decided to make organisation or rationalisation more gradual, I have proposed that we do a further analysis to determine the relationship between the burden of daily and night calls on individual centres. There was also an interesting relationship, and this does not apply to individual centres such as Trbovlje, Ptuj, but applies generally to all centres. Because we found that the call ratio between 10:00 and 6:00 a.m. is approximately 1:4. So if we take both data, I find that in the least-loaded centres, this load is about 20 times lower at night than at the most burdened centres. From this analysis followed and we looked at how many people are needed in a single centre for smooth operation. This is already due to the facts of the past. So, for every center, we need eight operators and a head of this center. Given that we cannot guarantee everything with regular employees, because in the past there have been restrictions on employment in the public sector, we have also performed part of these tasks with contract staff, with copyright contracts and so on. From this analysis, it has been crystallized that it is most rational for us to end the night shifts at six centres in the first phase, as you said, among other things in Trbovje, alongside him in Novi Grad, Postojna, Ptuj, Murska Sobota and during the night shifts, these calls have been diverted to neighbouring centres in Maribor, Ljubljana, Koper and so on. I have to say, none of what you've been saying is true. We did not terminate any of the firefighters, we did not terminate any of the emergency medical services, we did not terminate any of the paramedics, we simply changed the notification between 22:00 and 6am, with calls being diverted from one part of Slovenia to another. And this information of all these competent paramedics is going on smoothly. We had a series of meetings with firefighters just before the reorganisation. Firefighters are invited, as you know, via calls or directly via mobile phones. We've held meetings with the board of directors, and I'm finally two. 7. ordered also the inspection of our internal inspection to see what only functioning in the first week looked like. Since you're probably going to ask me something else, I'll be done later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u296	You obviously have a request to complete your response. Please, please, mag. Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Minister, everything I said is in order. I've quoted your information, the Ministry of Defense. I also talked about political pressure or evading from this document, your document. Of course, you did not stop anything — neither firefighters nor emergency medical care — that was not my point if you listened well. I said that both firefighters and doctors warn you not to start a planned reorganization because people's safety is at risk because people's lives are at risk. When you're talking about less busy centers, I'm asking you, will you stop in the country those roads that aren't as heavy as the main road or the Trbovlje-Ljubljana motorway? When we talk about security, about people's lives, then, I'll say, it's humiliating to be fed up with austerity measures with the country's curiosity on the fact that your austerity measures don't mean any savings. The savings effect is equal to zero, €42 000, without taking into account the additional costs to be incurred by shifting all communications to between €70 and €80 000, Minister. These are real numbers, specific ones. I'm asking you: Are you prepared to take full responsibility for your work, or can you sleep peacefully? Because of you, and I hope to say this today, people may die because your response to your action increases the time of aid supply. This isn't a joke. This is a serious matter, Minister. The lives are behind these austerity measures of yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Minister Alesh Hoys, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u299	Well, honourable Member, those words are a little too much. Your mayor said it last in the daily paper. One of these statements was that a cyclist died due to late communication. I have to tell you, I went to see in detail what was going on this day. And I can assure you that this communication was neither a minute nor a second later, even more, all the communication that took place in this case was still being carried out from the Regional Centre of Trbovlje. After 20 hours, when the case was closed, it actually took place from two centres, so that those on-callers in Trubów stayed in their workplace because the situation was so, and also in Ljubljana had all the necessary information and all the necessary guidance to guide both firefighters and rescue workers accordingly. In this case, rescue workers left their own premises or locations 20 hours ago. I think it's a minute and a half after our dispatcher from the Centre in the Rippers informed them. Speaking of which, I think it's kind of a fear of the citizens. You may be afraid that because someone else will take a phone call — by the way, these phone calls may be in your area at night for one every four days, say, or something like that — their lives are at risk. Your Honor, I ask you not to do this. We have made detailed plans on how this is carried out and information is carried out during the nighttime. I can tell you that we will also present this to you at the extraordinary meeting of the Defence Committee, including analyses or comparisons with neighbouring countries. There you can see the extent to which these call centers cover both the surface and the number of inhabitants. And it will be difficult for you to oppose me that citizens in the Republic of Austria are slightly less protected from protection and rescue or in Italy than our citizens. Finally, maybe two more about the costs. These costs that you state, of course, do not hold. We have calculated to save the circus €70,000 at the annual level by redistributing only night shifts. Of course, this savings in the first year due to the need to do something about communication equipment will not be the same, but will only be at the rate of the circus EUR 29 000. However, all the following years, if such an organisation remains, will be a savings of €69 000. As for the comparison with the renaming, however, I can say that the total cost of renaming military barracks is about 1,000 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u300	Thank you very much. I assume you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u301	I will take advantage of this opportunity given to me by the Rules of Procedure, even though I did not want to, but such misleading answers, Minister, are indeed not worthy of the Minister of this Government. I was hoping to expose the data, the specific numbers, because I have firsthand information that I believe is slightly different from your naked statistics, which are designed for you by those whose interest it is to unite the centres in our country. The pagers aren't working. Testing the pages you mentioned by the way. Seven. 7. call Ljubljana–Trbovlje does not work. For example, out of eight fire companies received a message in the congregation of Hrastnik, I apologize for receiving half of the members of one fire company. And when you mentioned that death victim, mentioned by the trebular mayor for Dnevnik, I don't know what statistics you have. Excuse me, I quote from the paramedic's field: "When we saw what the terrain of the Mountain Village-Holy Mountain will be," I believe that you have no idea where it is and that even the operator in Ljubljana does not know where the Mountain Village is in Trbovje. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u302	You're at a time when you have a procedural proposal. Please say it, it is not envisaged for further discussion [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u303	I'm going to design it, and then I'm going to design it. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u304	Please tell him, it is not envisaged for further discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u305	Thank you very much. In short, "When we saw what the terrain would be like, I decided to call the fire department. Of course over 112. When they tied them to me, I didn't get them. I'm calling again and nothing. That took a good five minutes. The lines were falling." Minister, this is what counts, not how much you will save, because you have committed to privatising the regional centres in the coalition contract. As far as I know, this plan is behind that only those with money will be excused until emergency assistance 112. The lives of people are at the back of these stories, and it is the security of citizens and citizens of our country. And if the minister hopes to claim that, following the new less staff and greater coverage of the territory to one regional centre, he can ensure the same effect. In Zasavje, the Trbovlje Regional Centre were before 1. 7. Employment of two people in exchange, in Ljubljana [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u306	I'm asking you to make a procedural proposal because twice counts your time. Otherwise, I'll stop you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u307	Absolutely. Look, my procedural proposal is to request or give an initiative to hold a broader debate on the Minister's response at the next meeting. Absolute [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u308	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u309	I'd like to justify it, and it's going on for the rest of my time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u310	Thank you very much. You've made a procedural proposal. You've run out of time. Ms Alenka Jeraj, who has a question for the Minister of Justice and Public Administration, Dr Senko Plitčanič, is next. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u311	Thank you for your word. Days 1. 6. 2010 has entered into force the Act on Alternative Dispute Resolution which regulates the settlement of disputes under alternative resolution procedures provided by the court to the parties under this Act. The law shall apply in disputes arising out of economic, labour, family and other civil law relations in respect of claims that may be freely available to and settled against the parties, unless otherwise provided for in the specific law for each of these disputes. It is used in district, district, labour and higher courts, as well as in the Higher Labour and Social Court. The law also determines who may be the mediator in court or what conditions persons who wish to conduct mediation in court must be satisfied. In addition to the business capacity, impunity and appropriate education, the mediator must provide training to the mediator under a programme designated by the Minister or Minister responsible for justice. At the time of the proclamation of the law, that's 27. 11. 2009 training of mediators for the implementation of the law took place until its entry into force. The education consisted mainly of judges and lawyers who were later listed as mediators in addition to some other mediators who acquired mediation skills with training in some NGOs that offer such training in Slovenia and are still successfully carrying out mediations in the courts. I want to know: Who, which organisation or individuals, have provided training for judges and lawyers in the enforcement and enforcement of the Alternative Dispute Resolution Act? Second: By what key were the providers of these trainings selected, the invitation to tender, the public call of the trainer of mediation training, published? What resources has the Ministry of Justice earmarked for training mediators? Who received them, and how many were received by individuals or individual organizations? And if the new mediators trained persons employed in the state administration or the judiciary, did they do this outside of their working hours, they were paid twice for this work?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u312	Thank you very much. I ask for the answer of Minister Senk Plitčanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u313	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Member and Members of Parliament. I'll be right on top of those questions. First question. Which organisations and individuals have provided training for judges and lawyers in order to enforce this law. Here I can answer that the Centre for Education in Justice, which operates within the Ministry I run, has carried out some of these trainings, and I will continue to tell you what amount has been spent on this education and also answer other questions. But I cannot answer the question of who else has carried out this training. These organizations must be something. We don't keep these records at the Ministry, so I can't answer this question about who else has trained who these organisations are. However, as it is said, the Centre for Justice Education has carried out this training. Here I can say that in 2012 until the adoption of the ZUJF for this education, €19 000 was earmarked. This education, as I mentioned earlier, was organised by the CIP – the Centre for Justice Education, which itself hired experts, as is the case with other educations, for judicial officials carried out by this organisation, i.e. the CIP. In 2011, for example, for comparison, 35 000 265 euros were earmarked for this type of education, a comparison between the two years. However, when it comes to what criteria are those on the basis of which training providers have been selected, then whether a public call or a public call has been made to trainers of mediation training, I can reply that the criteria are the same as for all justice education providers carried out by these organisations within our ministry, i.e. the CIP, because they are a highly difficult and critical audience. Above all, carrier trainers had to have completed training Train the trainees, i.e. training for training, many years of experience with mediation, this means that they have carried out a larger number of mediations, and that they have been recognised experts in this field. There was no special call, as the rules in public procurement do not provide for this because they are so-called B-services under the Public Procurement Act, which includes teaching work, that is, lectures, training for the purpose I am talking about. Then on your last question whether persons employed in the public administration or in the judiciary have trained new mediators outside their working hours and whether these persons have also received a training fee for their work in addition to their regular salary. Again, I can answer that for lecturers who do not fall within the framework of education organised by the CIP – i.e. the Centre for Justice Education, which operates within the Ministry I run, I do not have this information, depending on their agreement with their employers. I can tell you when it comes to the specific education on which you ask, the employees of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Interior, i.e. the Ministry I run, have not participated in these trainings. However, I can also answer, but if we should, we should do so within our free time, free hours, leave and so on and, of course, then we could receive a payment for this training, and not in any way within the framework of official time.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Are you asking me to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u315	In view of the fact that this is paid by the State or your ministry, I think that you should know, however, what is the organisation and who is next, if these educations have been carried out further, even if they have been carried out within the framework of the Education Centre you mentioned, I believe that you should have information on who is carrying out the education or who were the operators. And since you say that no invitation to tender has been issued, I am interested in what key these operators were then selected for, because this means that someone could decide for himself who could be involved, or the representatives of the centre that someone was running, someone had to decide who could be the ones who would conduct the education for mediators under the programme that was set. Now, you said that we spent 19 000 euros this year, 35,000 euros last year, I don't know, I don't think I've heard the data, but it's not that small and it's probably right to know who got it. As regards whether the mediators have trained persons employed in public administration or the judiciary and whether they have done so within working time, I am, of course, interested because we have already had such an example that even the labour inspector in his working time has been educated or carried out. He was found to be in breach of his work obligations and would have to do so in his spare time. So once again, I really want to know: What key were you chosen by? I think this is your education center. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary, for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u317	Thank you. First, let me explain again, so I can talk about those educations that the Centre for Justice Education has learned about others that other organisations have, I don't have, I don't have, I don't have. So those that the CIP found out about, he paid them, and he didn't pay the others. The State budget for other trainings did not pay. Only those who have been briefed by the CIP, so there is no dilemma here. I didn't say 2010 because I don't have it. I have it here for 2012 and 2011, so I said this comparison. However, as regards who are these professionals who have conducted these trainings for the CIP, in fact these names, these are natural persons, they are individual experts who are once again not an unlimited number in Slovenia, but in fact I do not have these names here. Probably not your question was meant to indicate by name who did all these trainings for the CIP, so it does not. As to what criteria they were chosen. According to my information so far, in general with regard to the functioning of the CIP, which, as you know, provides a whole range of training in other areas, not only with regard to alternative dispute resolution, but rather with an established system of criteria by which lecturers choose, and the main criterion is the one I mentioned. All those who exercise any training must prove that they are qualified to teach teachers are said to be the highest degree of difficulty when it comes to teaching. There are no other criteria, except that each area is expected again to be a top-level expert in this field. In fact, this is a judgment of the one who runs the center, namely the responsible persons of this center. There are no other criteria, no public procurement, even because it is a relatively low amount, if we look at how these amounts are then distributed by individual natural persons, individual experts carrying out these trainings, so we do not have to go into public procurement. That's how much I can answer your questions right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrata has a question for the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr. Žiga Turka, who is excusedly absent and I wonder whether you expect a written answer or an oral one at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u319	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I'll just say I'm expecting an oral response at the next session. I am relying on my question to protest the college's education of professionals in education and education, at the public invitation of the higher education union of Slovenia, to the Communication from the Rector's Conference of the Republic of Slovenia and the university student councils, but it is related to the issue of higher education. The national reform programme 2012 and 2013 sent by the Slovenian Government to Brussels includes, among other things, "enhancing the quality and efficiency of higher education" and a range of very beautiful, effective words: efficiency, performance of higher education, rationalisation, promotion and awarding quality and excellence, greater connectivity and interdisciplinaryness, then taking into account the needs of the labour market, increasing internationalisation and so on. And then I come to an important work, 'the first stage will also be financed in the future by public funds, while the public funding of the second level will depend on the budgetary capacities and savings that will result from the non-financing of repetition, the abolition of the graduates' internship and the reduction of the fictitious entry. Their funding will also take into account the accumulated surplus of revenue over expenditure in public institutions," and this is where the fundamental problem begins – after we have rebalanced taxed resources for higher education and for education and research, we expect to finance fees from surpluses. And that's exactly what they're pointing out in their statements I mentioned. In the second half of the year, universities will receive in grave 20% less funding than they need for salaries and material costs, carrying out regular study programmes. They will also receive 15 or more percent less funding for research. They have an obligation to already enrolled students. This is said to enable students enrolled to study free of charge at another Bologna level. Where are they gonna get the money? And now there's another thing. Savings are also expected by the Ministry through interventions into the structure of study programmes. This is an intervention in the autonomy of university space. And I could also tell you what it would be possible to ask the minister if he were here today. I'm still asking him, and I expect him to answer me: How will the Ministry prevent the programme from impoverishing public higher education institutions, reducing the availability of studies and brain drains abroad? I thank him for his answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u320	Thank you very much. So, you expect an oral response at the next meeting. Ms Maša Kociper, who has a question for the Minister of Justice and Public Administration, is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u321	Thank you very much, Chairman. Mr Minister, as you probably know, a resolution was adopted in the National Assembly in 2009 on the normative activity that has been widely supported among Members, of which 82 members, including Members of the current SDS, confirmed by 82 present. The resolution is a result of analyses that have shown a number of shortcomings in national regulatory activities in cooperation with interested public. The resolution is intended to finally establish quality standards for the preparation of laws and other regulations and, above all, to ensure that the professional public, the target public and those implementing the rules are able to participate in their preparation. The resolution therefore also lays down specific deadlines or minimum standards for public consultation and provides that the deadline for public consultation of those covered by the regulation shall not be less than 30 days. In April 2010, the Government also upgraded this provision in its own rules of procedure. In March this year, the Centre of NGOs in Slovenia established a counterinfringement by ministries to monitor the effectiveness of this resolution, and the findings of this counter are catastrophic. The Ministry of Rules did not take account of as many as 84% of all cases, says 81 out of 96 regulations, with at least in some cases, for example, five ministries never taking this procedure into account at all. However, in the case of a total number of infringements, the Ministry of the Interior is leading the way. The results of the counter thus show a worrying and small proportion of the rules in which the public could participate. The level of public involvement in the drafting of regulations is therefore continuing to decline and thus the quality of the solutions adopted. In doing so, I would also recall the provisions of the Coalition Treaty, in which the parties wrote: "We will upgrade the standards of consultation of the interested public when preparing and adopting regulations and thus reduce democratic deficits and raise the quality of regulations. We will also consistently carry out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the rules and thus ensure that the Government is decided on the basis of facts and evidence." In recent days, the Commission has also pointed out violations of the resolution and other regulations by the Government in order to prevent corruption, as it considers that the Government has allowed obvious interventions in the field of protection of the public interest and protection of the rule of law when it has sent a number of urgent proposals to the National Assembly for adoption. Among them, and this area, Mr Minister, you know very well, also a number of laws covering environmental matters, where these decision-making procedures are specifically specified. So I ask for an answer: How will you, as Minister of Justice, ensure respect for the resolution and other rules for the adoption of quality legislation?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Minister Dr. Shadow Plitzenic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u323	Thank you. Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, I am already a minister with responsibility for justice and, in particular, the public administration, in which part concerns the implementation of this resolution, which you are referring to, namely, the Resolution on Regulatory Activities, particularly those standards, which the resolution is called, the law, because it is only necessary to know that it is not a legal act, that it is a policy act. I am even advocating that public participation and, in general, the procedure for adopting regulations be regulated more legally, perhaps by a specific law, sometime on another occasion. I agree that at this time, since the government has taken office so far, several times there has been a violation of the standards required by the Resolution of Regulatory Activities for the adoption of regulations. At the same time, it is necessary to know that these main legislative projects of this government were taking place in a situation where it was necessary to act quickly. The resolution itself is aware of some exceptions and derogations from other rules, which, once again, are legislated. Such a situation is the main exception when it comes to urgent, immediate measures without which irreparable damage could arise. We have concluded that the first legislative project of this government, namely the ZUJF, the Public Finance Balance Act, is an example of such a law, so that in this case, of course, it was necessary to prepare these measures quickly, but I should point out that social dialogue also took place with the drafting of the law. As you know, we have negotiated with the social partners and this is actually part of the process of adopting regulations or respecting the Resolution on normative activities. By saying that, in the case of the ZUJF, the resolution on normative activity was not respected or that it was under-respected, I think it would be difficult or exaggerated in this case. When it comes to this second package adopted by the Government at the previous meeting or at the previous two meetings and considered by the National Assembly after the conclusion of the regular meeting at the extraordinary meeting, the situation is similar. This is also the case, according to the Government, a set of laws that are once again necessary to relieve the economy as soon as possible in order to enable the economy to do everything the government or parliament can do to get it started again. That is also why the drafting and adoption of these laws, in some cases I may agree with, has led to the exceedment of the standards required by the Resolution of normative activities. What I would say in this regard is that in the future, I myself will take the stand that such situations will be no longer or will be as few as possible. At the same time, we need to know that Slovenia will need some time to stabilise its public finances and then the economy, and that it is likely that there will be ever more haste in adopting certain measures that will be regulated by some law. Even in this case, at least I will do everything – I think this applies to the government as a whole – to minimise such situations and that even when they are, at least some of the minimum standards in the resolution will be respected. I can make a commitment that I will do everything I can to ensure that the standards of the resolution of normative activities are respected. Moreover, I will advocate that this circle or the framework for public participation, or at all, the procedure for the adoption of regulations, be extended and strengthened more legally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u324	Thank you very much. You obviously have a request to complete your response. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u325	Mr. Secretary, thank you for your assurances. Indeed, we view you as a kind of guardian of legality, both by function and by your statement. Even though we believe you will try to take these matters into account in the future, we would like to point out that out of the 66 rules that were forwarded to the National Assembly in the mandate of this Government, 56 matters were not respected in all cases where the Government's proponent was a resolution or the Government's Rules of Procedure. In only ten procedures proposed by other applicants, a regular procedure has been proposed. In all the procedures proposed by this Government, however, it was not possible for this legislative body or the public to be able to monitor the adoption of legislation following a regular three-phase procedure. I think we agree that it is unacceptable for us to go into an arrangement that we do not want. Your party president, the President of the National Assembly, Gregor Virant, has repeatedly stressed that, by abolishing the State Council, all these powers conferred by the State Council can be transferred to a decision before the adoption of the laws, according to the pre-law procedure in the Government. And once again, we would like to remind you that the trend we are in is unsustainable. Not only Members, but also citizens deserve at least some debate on the content of such important laws, the crisis down or up. So we hold you to your word, but we hope there will be more to it than words. The professional public has proposed concrete solutions that would make the government more committed, let's say that the law cannot proceed into the procedure unless at least one minimum standard of discussion has been met. Perhaps the legislation could be supplemented in this direction, or perhaps you could, as an example, take into account the amendments proposed by your ministry, the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration in the autumn, as you have already announced, these standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u326	Thank you very much. Otherwise there was no request to complete the answer, but I ask you, you don't need to, don't want Sorry, do you have a procedural proposal? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u327	Yes, given the importance of this issue and in the interest of all, I would suggest that a debate be held in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, and we in the opposition ensure that it is accurate and professional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 11 July 2012, in the framework of the votes. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has a question for the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. Andrea Vissiak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u329	A respected magus. Andrej Vizjak, I am referring to you with regard to persons with disabilities, who, of course, have different legal status in this country, given the reasons why they actually became disabled, such as a work accident, illness, injury or even war, and the situation that a person has at the time of disability, as a worker, child or soldier. On the basis of legal status, different groups of persons with disabilities are entitled to different rights and social benefits. Dear Minister, I ask you: Are you planning any activity in the areas of equalization of rights of different categories of persons with disabilities? This is, of course, a question for you, especially for one reason, why I am actually interested in this. However, given that we have several legislations in our country from various areas, how we actually deal with individual issues, it is more or less clear that all modern countries seek to be guided to the United Nations Convention and to follow a uniform classification of disability regardless of the occurrence or disability. And that's why I want to know: Are you thinking about regulating this issue by law itself? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u330	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u331	Dear Member, thank you very much for this question. I think it is very useful and welcome, and it has already opened up in the Public Finance Balance Act. Even then, we opened up this problem and found that the status of the disabled defines a number of laws. Let me just list them: Pension and Disability Insurance Act, War Disabled Persons Act, Social Protection Act for Mental and Physically Injured Persons, Law on Children's Guidance with Special Needs, Law on the Education and Training of Children and Youth with Disabilities in Physical and Mental Development, Law on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. All these laws deal with the problem of persons with disabilities, and as a result we have different categories, different rights and, in some ways, less understandable, it is that for similar rights or for some similar characteristics the rights of persons with disabilities are extremely different. If I understand your question correctly, there is also some kind of initiative to deal with uniformity and that a certain category of disabled person is, of course, bound by a certain right to disability, not the reason why this disability has arisen. In fact, we have the practice that some disabled people, such as war disabled people, are also recognised by certain rights as compensation for how this disability occurred. Of course, we have a relatively large mess, even because all of these laws were created in very different periods and in some ways added and accumulated in a kind of way regulated these rights. When we wanted to go through the Public Finance Balance Act to cut into this area, we saw that this was an overcrowding task, and we intend to systematically settle the matter with the practice of other developed countries.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u332	Thank you very much for your answer. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic, who has a question for the Minister for Economy, Development and Technology of Mag. Merry Christmas. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u333	Mr. President, thank you. Mr Radovan Žerjav, Minister of Economy, I refer to you with regard to the implementation of the guidelines and strategies for the development of tourism. The new strategy for the development and marketing of Slovenian tourism 2012-2016 is mainly based on intensive marketing, higher quality of services and the development of innovative tourism products, with the aim of increasing competitiveness, promoting sustainable tourism development and increasing tourism transport, volume of flows, number of arrivals and nights. The Strategy also bears the subtitle Partnership for the Sustainable Development of Slovenian Tourism. The strategy is thus intended to present a coherent document of all stakeholders in the country's tourism interests, namely the public, private and civil sectors, stressing the sustainable concept of tourism development in all areas and levels. Despite the experience mentioned so far, however, the implementation of the strategy for the development and marketing of Slovenian tourism is the responsibility of a whole range of different government departments, with the effect of uncoordinated operation or better said non-cooperation between the departments. Moreover, the voice of the tourism economy is often not taken into account in the government, at least in the past. I therefore ask you as the competent minister: How will you ensure the representation of the neglected tourism sector in the government and other ministerial departments? How and will you ensure that the strategy guidelines are taken into account whenever new laws are amended or adopted? The practice so far has shown that the laws and bureaucracy that have just been adopted have been the biggest obstacle to achieving the objectives of the strategy. So, what's going on? We adopt a strategy that actually tells us what, how, who, when and by what means. We actually have some kind of plan to behave, but then it shows up – what? One ministry, a specific non-cooperation of tourism and agriculture. Everyone stands on their shores and simply does not allow farmers to build, for example, a tourist infrastructure that, depending on the climate conditions, would be able to extend the tourist season in the autumn and winter times wherever we focus on the Slovenian coast. This is simply not happening in our country because some people take their stand and do not deviate from it, although compromise solutions would help us to develop tourism in our country, which is the most growing economic sector in the world. I'm asking you nicely for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u334	Thank you very much. Mag. Radovan Žerjav, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u335	Thank you very much for that question. I do not need to stress that tourism is one of the most important economic activities in Slovenia, as confirmed by basic economic indicators, such as data on its total contribution to the BPD, which is 12.9%, and data on the share of flows in total exports, which is 8.8%. I would also like to point out that tourism is also growing by about 4 to 5% this year after data we have from January to May, despite all the criticisms we have received, due to savings in this area as well. In short, tourism is growing. That's good. We agree that in the past certain ministries have unilaterally taken certain measures whose implementation has had absolutely negative consequences for the development of tourism, such as the introduction of a single winter school holiday term, measures in the field of bathing water regulation, etc. Therefore, with the aim of bringing individual ministries closer together with tourism, we have already actively involved in the process of preparing a new strategy for the development of Slovenian tourism 2012-2016, which has consequently become, as you can see, a harmonised document of various stakeholders representing the interests of Slovenian tourism. As Minister of Tourism, I also called on the ministries to appoint members of the Permanent and Interdepartmental Monitoring Group, to implement the Strategy for the Development of Slovenian Tourism 2012-2016, which will also be the task of ensuring the implementation of the relevant measures by individual ministries, with a view to achieving the objectives and strategies set. You know, there's always a question of people and people's attitudes to a particular area, to an individual activity. You probably know that in the previous term, despite the sharp, I stress the sharp opposition of the Ministry of Economy, and thus in the background of the entire tourist economy, there has been a change in winter holidays, which undoubtedly have had negative consequences for the Slovenian winter tourist pick, if we say so. In short, tourism has not been heard. I hope that this time, too, on the basis of everything we have done, or else I will be absolutely committed to hearing it from my colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u336	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u337	Dear Minister, I am partly responsible with your answer. The key question is that we do not have any other options in Slovenia. We see that, in fact, in our space, almost all those responsible do not realize our excellent position in Europe, the geostrategic position we have. They do not really realize that we have excellent climate conditions. However, we do not have a tourist infrastructure that, given the excellent climate conditions, would allow us to extend the tourist season. On the Slovenian coast, the tourist season is two months up to a maximum of three, four months. The fall and winter times are dead. Look at Tuscany. It's the peak of the season in November. When our wine growers and winemakers cry in the seams right in November, December, then our hotels are empty, even closed. Who should I sell to? However, Slovenian farmers and those who advocate the development of self-sustainment and Slovenian agriculture in this country must understand that they must first and foremost create the conditions for the Slovenian farmer to sell his crop. The link between agriculture and tourism is literally essential. Tourism is not without agriculture. But that's our priority. And I don't understand that so many years ago it couldn't be arranged or we couldn't find one compromise. We do not have oil in Slovenia, but we literally have all the other advantages. We cannot deal with something we do not have, we cannot compete with some in Macedonia with some vegetables and so on. But we can literally compete with many other European countries because of our excellent position, due to our natural heritage and we can develop co-natural and green tourism, green tourism. We actually have these terms here. Therefore, Minister, when you adopt all the laws, go to the government before this law comes to the National Assembly, to agree, inter alia, that when the law comes, the law will allow the development of tourism in our Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u338	Would you like to give an additional answer? Please, mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u339	Your Honor, I absolutely agree with you and I have practically nothing to add, but I do. As far as tourism is concerned, however, things are changing, and not now, I will say, since the time of this government's mandate, but for a long time the attitude towards tourism has changed, and this must be acknowledged. The country has also invested a lot in tourism, a lot in infrastructure, a lot in the development of destinations and, more recently, in promotion. This must be acknowledged, and the results are positive, as they are. Of course, with this, I agree with you, we cannot and must not be satisfied. New markets, including those remote markets, will need to be opened if we are to make better use of, as you say, the infrastructure we have built. Not just by the sea, but somewhere else, in Gorenjska, Styria. The potential of recent tourist farms and thermal bathing tourism, which is, of course, one of the key services or offers of Slovenian tourism. The last thing you mentioned to me personally seems even more important, in short, to seek synergies between tourism and agriculture, not only through the offer of tourist farms, but much broader. I agree with you that there is great potential here in the background. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u340	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music, do you have a procedural proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u341	Of course, I have a procedural proposal. That is precisely why I want to help the Minister to make this strategy, which we have considered last time on the Committee on the Economy, easier to implement. I propose that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, a broader discussion be held on this topic of the implementation of tourism and Slovenian legislation, so that we, in fact, in Slovenia, will have all the ministers and all those who are in charge of assisting in the implementation of the development strategy, in view of past practice and poor interdepartmental cooperation, if we are talking about tourism. I think the whole of Slovenia is calling directly for the development of tourism, not just the coast where I come from. Without the development of tourism and if the relevant legislation does not follow the strategy and follow the guidelines adopted, accept what the profession has written in the strategy, then this strategy will be the same as all those strategies that we have actually written, paid and literally put in the drawer. I would like to know, Mr Minister, how much of this strategy, which I personally consider to be excellent and good, will be implemented by 2016. I therefore hope that, when we vote on Wednesday on the issue of public debate in this room, you will also vote in favour of those in the coalition, because I think there is a need for a thorough debate on this, because tourism is actually what will save Slovenia from this crisis. The development of tourism and the construction of tourism infrastructure. In the past, the very area of agriculture has blocked the development of everything and look where we are with agriculture and where we are with tourism. Tourism itself is still somehow, I will say, saving, and agriculture, despite large subsidies, is increasingly in crisis, even in Slovenia and everywhere around the world, especially here with us, because we do not know how to behave and connect. Intersectoral cooperation is therefore essential. This public debate will encourage all ministers that you, as minister and all those at the Tourism Directorate, will tell them that there is no development of tourism in Slovenia without the necessary cooperation of all departments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u342	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 11 July, in the framework of the votes. Ms Alenka Pavlič, who has a question for the Minister of Infrastructure and the premises of Mr Zvonk Černač, is next. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u343	Minister Chernač, our country is falling apart. On the one hand, you take the poor and on the other hand, the monopolies remain because they are protected by the state. With the Public Finance Balance Act, you have reduced pensions for pensioners, lower salaries for public servants, and more for the poor from day to day. Monopolies that directly affect the welfare of citizens remain. I've had an emissary office since the beginning. The problems I am listening to are all the same, first of all chimney services, monopoly, for poor services, expensive pay and the inability to choose chimneys, and now the court is also at the bottom of the management of multi-housing buildings. People have pointed out to me that managers act as building owners, do not convene meetings, do smaller repairs on their own and at their own discretion. In some buildings there are no checks at all, operators don't even come forward to check the situation, so people have to call themselves and ask operators to review and repair things, the prices of services are not exactly determined and operators are adapting them to themselves. The funds collected in the reserve fund shall be used for the repair or maintenance of other facilities. This creates internal credit for operators by users. The purchases of basic funds from the reserve fund are irrational and there are no visible tenders and prices for other tenderers. Minister Blackach, people are having a hard time. It may seem funny to raise management costs from €4 to €8, but people who care about each euro are not laughing. The law itself would need an absolute overhaul. That's why I'm asking you: How do you plan to regulate the management of multi-housing facilities so that there will be no monopolies and voluntary rise in the prices of services and non-management? Besides, I'm just wondering: What will be the time frame for the solution, for this area is actually far from being regulated?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u344	Thank you very much. Minister Blackach, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u345	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that a few words were initially raised about the fact that this government takes the weaker and preserves the monopolies, let me also say something about it, regardless of the fact that the issue was then different and went in a different direction. I think that this government, with the Public Finance Balance Act, somehow wanted to establish some justice. If you have looked at these provisions, you can conclude that this does not hold that we have reached where there is more, and that we are also trying to cut in the future especially for those who have more. Some do not behave like this, for example, here I read, the Municipality of Ljubljana, Mr. Zoran Jankovic is the mayor, more expensive kindergartens, more expensive funeral services, and there is also a more expensive bus for schoolchildren. We're going the other way. As you know, this month you will be considering the Transport Act, where we intend to introduce a ticket for students and students and lower this price to 15 euros per month and include urban transport in Ljubljana and Maribor. So that I could not fully agree with those introductory observations. As far as monopolies are concerned, I'm one of those people I don't advocate. You know that I was one of those people in the last term who I have very troubled one of these monopolies, which I am currently not responsible for, and these are the chimney services you mentioned. We don't need any monopolies here, we need to set up a market here. The market will make appropriate regulation and services will continue to be provided under appropriate standards. However, there are no monopolies in the management of multi-housing buildings. Legislation hasn't changed much lately, either. More or less, we have legislation that was enacted in 1991 when this housing law was enacted, then the Real Law Code and what has not changed significantly in this area in these 20 years. We have a management system that is determined by the top-level owners. More than half of them have to agree. If more than half of them agree to this, then this administrator shall enter into the relevant register and carry out these operations. At any time, more than half of these top-level owners of someone who does not perform these services effectively or acts as you mentioned, contrary to the interests of the top-level owners, may at any time call it off. It is true, however, that there are problems in this management, such small ones, which place a heavy burden on those with the lowest income. Without properly organizing and disposing of those who do not provide these services, of course, they cannot do anything. At some point, I think it was 2008 or 2009, but it was an ambition to also introduce some kind of monopoly in this area. Some type of licensing was envisaged at the time. And thank God that didn't happen. I think that this is a deviation from these normal situations which must work in this area. I think that this legislation, which is now in force, also makes it possible for the high-level owners to organise themselves within the individual housing facility, I speak where, of course, there are more than eight units and more than two owners. Because if it's less than eight units and less than two owners, you don't have to have one of them and choose one of them as the manager. And as much as I have experience, I'll tell you that these things work best. It works best to manage where the high-level owners agree, of course, if there is such a person or such a high-level owner in the house that one of them is doing this business for the whole house. In fact, it's kind of a housekeeper on a slightly higher level, let's say that, normally, because it's close because it's accessible to people because it's seen every day, it's significantly more quality and with greater responsibility, it's provided by this service than by a larger company, which has a couple thousand apartments or even 10,000 apartments, where it's actually the primary goal of creating some corresponding profit from this title. Which way will our thinking go? As a result of these comments, which we are also recording, I am also participating in them, we will try to establish a system whereby, in management, I also hear the voice of a minority, it is not only in this case that more than half of those who have decided on a certain operator will be gathered, we will try to establish a system that, even if it is a smaller group of top-level owners, which has reasonable comments on the work of an individual administrator, we will, through regulation, allow for a debate and a recall and replacement of that administrator.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u346	Thank you very much. Do you have a request to complete the response? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u347	First, I'll answer that part of the question that I didn't want you to answer. Your government has taken 50 million budget money from MOL, the Municipality of Ljubljana, and kindergartens are auctioned minimally. Now back to my question, namely, if I understand you correctly, you allow citizens to organise themselves, they are practically unprotected to organize themselves with a janitor, so they don't belong anywhere, they have no way of complaining, no one is protecting them. That's the first one. Second. Since you were the Director of the Housing Fund in Postojna yourself, you probably know this issue very well. So I want to know: How much will you personally bite into or get involved in this sour apple? If I understand correctly, you won't have much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u348	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u349	Thank you very much. As in all other areas, I will personally engage in everything. All areas falling within the competence of the Ministry shall require a personal note from the Minister prior to the final decision. It's not right, as it was once said, that business is run by a minister. I hope this doesn't happen in my future, but in my future, it will be the other way around. I have said that this area is one of those that has not formally undergone some major changes in the last 20 years, that it is somehow regulated to allow for free choice. Such an area can always be better regulated, but if I make it easier for the administrators to be set free, in the manner prescribed by the applicable legislation, more than 50 % of the ownership beneficiaries are identified by these high-level owners of this manager. Regulation is laid down, it is said that what, in what way the manager must do this business – very precisely these things are defined, in some cases even in detail – and it is also determined in which cases 75 % or more of the consent is required to perform certain tasks and in which cases there is a need to carry out individual tasks or to carry out individual parts of the consent of all floor owners in the facility, 100 % of the consent shall be given. So, after this formal normative salary, things are settled. However, I said that in practice, as in all other areas, there are problems. There are problems mainly in the part where individual level-holders feel overheared when they feel that their voice is not heard enough that they do not have enough influence over the management of common parts and common facilities, some may expect more than can be expected, but there is no other way. As in democracy, as in this House, the majority decides. The majority shall decide whether these arguments and those observations are justified. If more than 50% of the high-level owners feel that way, then there is no obstacle that the manager of such an facility will call off at any time and engage someone else. I also told you what best practice is. Now, if we can further stimulate her, we will. The best practice is that you are operated by one of the top-level owners because it is closest to people and also manages it as best you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u350	Thank you very much. You have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u351	In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose or wish the National Assembly to hold a general debate on this subject by the administrators of multi-housing buildings because it seems to me that this is a very pressing issue and takes over the whole of the Republic of Slovenia and is extremely irregular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u352	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 11 July, in the framework of the votes. It's mag. Borut Ambrožič, who has a question for the Minister without a department responsible for Slovenians in place and around the world, Mrs Ljudmilo Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u353	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello, ministers present, and in particular, Madam Minister, who will be asked a question concerning our Slovenian minority in Austria and Styria. With the important economic development fact that Austria is one of the most important foreign trade partners and foreign investors in Slovenia, we are also associated with our immediate neighbour with a large inter-human or national element, i.e. the Slovenian minority. On one of the websites dealing with this topic in the country's role, we can note the record that Slovenia is representing as a guardian of the interests of the minority and is consistently committed to the realization of all its rights under Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty. This was signed on May 15, 1955. Article 7 defined all rights of the Slovenian and Croatian minorities in Austria. It should be said that the Slovenian minority in the Austrian Koroška is only one of the six national communities in Austria, which is created by Slovenians in addition to representatives of minorities of Croatians, Czechs, Slovaks, Hungarians, Italians and Roma. A large number of Slovenian societies and institutions combine the central cultural organization: the Christian Cultural Union and the Slovenian World Association. Despite everything that is said and also symbolic about today's issue, since the Austrian Parliament adopted a new law on bilingual topography a year ago, which was passed by the Austrian Koroška on 164 bilingual local inscriptions, many questions remain open, and in particular the needs of the Slovenian minority in Austria's Koroška and Styria regarding the finances allocated to their operation by the Republic of Slovenia. And it is these finances that have stabbed me or brought me to this point because, in the context of the 2012 budget rebalancing, it can be found that the funding at the Slovenian Government for Slovenians has been reduced by EUR 187 000 and 597 worldwide, mainly in support of NGOs and civil society, to be more precise in support of Slovenians outside the Republic of Slovenia. I therefore ask you, in view of the effects of the ZUJF and the 2012 budget balance, which also affects the functioning of Slovenian minorities, Madam Minister: In what way will you ensure their smooth operation mainly in Austria and Styria?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u354	Thank you very much. Minister Ludmila Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u355	Dear Mr. Ambassador Mag. Borut Ambrožič, thank you for your question. Despite the fact that the funds at the Office for Slovenians have also been slightly reduced in place and around the world, I do not think that the operation of the various organisations in Austria and Styria will be significantly reduced. Everyone understands that we are also implementing austerity measures in Slovenia, so they have taken an understanding of the fact that they will also reduce funds slightly. Nevertheless, I can say that they are everywhere very grateful to the Republic of Slovenia, which, however, devotes a lot of resources to their needs, and sometimes also solves the situation by providing funds for the various organisations that should actually be taken care of by the country in which they live or the country. So that this action will not be substantially distorted. But also when reviewing the use of funds, we warn users that they need to rationalise spending, especially with regard to pay and material costs. We're trying to do the best we can with these funds. However, the essential action will not be thwarted.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u356	Thank you very much. Are you going to ask for an additional response? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u357	Thank you, again for your word. In part, Madam Minister, I agree with you, but in part not at all, because I would quote this sentence once again, he just impressed me with the memory: 'I should like Slovenia', I will stress, 'protection of the interests of the minority and consistently advocate the realization of all its rights'. I had the opportunity to meet with representatives of various organisations, including representatives of kindergartens, primary schools, homes, of course, who have said well, with understanding somehow accepted the fact that they are saving themselves in Slovenia, therefore also outside of its borders, but in particular in a library capable of 130 000 book units, Slovenian units, which is very commendable and from which they borrow all possible institutions, especially in Celovac and the surrounding area, they find it difficult to understand the fact that they will not know how many percentages of the fundus or censorship for the acquisition of books. That is why I appeal to the future for more obedience for our Slovenians beyond borders, because in many cases we are their only hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u358	Thank you very much. Minister, you want to complete your response. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u359	The Republic of Slovenia certainly has a lot of attention to its minorities. Many other, larger countries also admire us here. We have a special office for Slovenians in place and around the world, the minister's office, and we also have quite a lot of resources. When we talk to some other countries that are asking us how we have this problem arranged, we can say that we are only being commended or surprised by the country of Slovenia, that it does have such attention to Slovenians in place and around the world. As far as the library is concerned. I know this problem and those problems that are particularly acute or more difficult, we are also trying to solve within the framework of intervention measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u360	Thank you very much. The question is raised by Mrs Renata Brunskole, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u361	Hello again! Mr. Secretary, I ask you: In accordance with your powers, how will you avoid the negative effects on the long-term development of the environment occurring in the course of economic activities by remaining focused on the promotion of coherent regional development and the promotion of the economy, including new activities such as pyrolysis, this is the combustion of old rubber or plastics, which experts say is environmentally sound, that it does not pose such environmental hazards or risks to human health? Why am I asking you this? In recent weeks it has been in the White landscape, and I have noticed that somewhere else in Slovenia there has already been such a question of people or people there, as well as of individual municipalities or local communities. Even according to Mayor Semič – a concrete example from White Krajina, Semič – this production is not controversial. In the opinion of the experts, it is not. He was also supported by the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Semič, in the sense of "Semič is for ecology but also for development". Why do I ask you that? It is a civil initiative 2012 which has now emerged in the White landscape, in Semič called the Civil Initiative for a transparent and healthy White Landscape, which collects signatures with a petition against such investments anywhere, both in Semič and anywhere in the White landscape. It is the case that the first paragraph of Article 8 of the Environmental Protection Act provides for the introduction of new technologies for production processes and products, that this is permissible only if, taking into account the state of science and technology and possible safeguards, there is no expectation of unforeseen, adverse effects on the environment or human health. As I have stated, this is an important issue and doubts in the White Krajina, and it is a pity that any of the investors in this direction would be rejected and thus not acquired some new jobs. In the white landscape, there has also been a major ecological problem over the last few years, as I asked you last time, the spilling of manure from the biogas plant. On 14 June 2012, the Veterinary Administration of Slovenia issued a decision establishing a temporary ban on spillage in order to establish salmonella in this biogas manure. Here's the question: Where do you put 4,000 tons of salmonella contaminated material? Please, Mr. Secretary, for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u362	Thank you very much. Minister Franz Bogovich, please answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u363	I never used to question the question, but I can see that it is obvious that it is a habit now to write one sentence in the introduction of a question that is the basis for the preparation of a specific answer and then spend all the time running out of it in order to ask the whole question. Therefore, I apologize for not being able to have the concrete answers that I would be happy to serve if the question were so asked. The question was very principled, and in this part I can say calmly that we know that the law and the Constitution itself lay down this right to life in a safe environment and that the Environment Ministry is the one to take care of the legislative framework in this work, on the other hand, we also have a number of experts and agencies, who are also trying to answer such questions in the context of their tasks, what does it involve, what does it not judge, what answers should be given before an object is placed in the space. There is also an inspection within the offices of the bodies in the composition, but it must monitor whether life is as it is recorded in the documentation. Unfortunately, we note that there is a whole range of these violations in the Slovenian space, as well as a large number of shortages of resources and resources, sometimes for quality control alone. With regard to these things you encounter in the White Land, some of them are familiar to me. With one of the civil initiatives that one of these problems, the installation of the biogas plant, has also tried to warn us about its activities, we have met. On this basis, some legislation will also be amended. The promise is that we will make a public declaration of this document in the White landscape and also look at the object on the face of the city. I also intervened, as I said, with the owners, met with them, in some way also agreed with the mayors that they had settled together and that they were trying to clear up all the problems correctly and in dialogue. On the other hand, it is normal to put the whole matter within the legislative framework. As far as the problem surrounding the tyre incinerator is concerned, I am truly sorry, I do not know how to deal with a concrete answer, so I will take care of the written answer. It is known, however, that the process of placing in the room and that, in the very space itself, the environmental consensus for which the bodies in charge of our ministry are in charge, and certainly not on civil initiative issues or on the issues of the procedure itself, we cannot solve the problem at 3 p.m. in Parliament, will have to be where this process is ongoing. But as I've already said, I'm going to ask myself what stage he's in, and I'm going to serve you with a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u364	Thank you very much. I thought you two had already agreed on a written answer to that question you didn't ask earlier. Please, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u365	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. However, we would have no doubt that I wanted to put you in any awkward position. My question was – and this is what I would like in the general debate: In accordance with your competences, how will you avoid the negative effects on long-term environmental development arising from economic activities such as biogas, tyre incinerators and environmentally-friendly hazardous activities? It was this way. But there's something else I'd like to point out. There is also a question in the White landscape, perhaps somewhere else, why fish have been killed in Kolpa landscape park, whose operation with employees is financed by the state, but it is only right that in these times of crisis and saving in this state institution, I would like to remind you, even in relation to ecological matters, it is in the direction of effective use of state resources for the needs of Kolpa Landscape Park, our pearl. This is because there is doubts among people that funds are being used within these state funds for possible private interests, I don't know, people are also thinking about possible political support for such implementation, and the people there have this feeling. I suggest that such doubts be resolved if they exist. The development of tourism in the White landscape is of great importance and, therefore, I would suggest, Mr Minister, that such environmental problems, which we have been facing in recent months and which are media – i.e. what I said about the biogas plant, on 14 June, the Veterinary Administration, once again, has concluded that there is a salmonella, so 4 thousand tons of biogas manure in some other plant to be destroyed. This is a question of doubt and a great question of people in the White Land.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u366	Thank you very much. You asked a whole bunch of questions. I ask Minister Bogovich, is there anything else he wants to answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u367	First of all, as far as it's concerned, fish gets killed. Kolpa Landscape Park plays an important development role in your province. According to my well-known information, if there are doubts, a respected citizen and also a Member of Parliament can inform whom, I really cannot know what is going on in the White Land. [[...]] However, I think that in the last days, when the boys from this park organized themselves, acquired boats, and also tried to solve the problem that arose in Kolpa, that at least the cadavers had been removed, it would be possible on any other occasion more appropriate if they had received criticism. Now I would expect someone to say that they've done their job. Because it is not really a landscape park that is – yes, it cares about the environment, the development programs – responsible for the quality of water. And we can't impose this responsibility on the landscape park. I also spoke to Director Grabrian today. He kept us informed, told us about his role, and other institutions were also involved to find out the real reason. It's hard to talk about this cause today, it's about summer time when the water temperature is close to 29 degrees, so I wouldn't have any more answers here, because I don't have them either, and they're responsible for what they're doing here in this area. Now that I am speaking, however, the President of the party cannot answer, because you have given this hint about political interests and some spending for private purposes, I have strongly rejected any such hint. Mr. Grabrian is a member of our party. I've never and never been of any of these people in any relationship, given that I'm only a minister for a few months, even now I don't think how much longer I'm going to be in a position to ever mix these things up. That's why I don't think that observation was in place. In my name and on behalf of the party, I strongly reject it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u368	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u369	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for that answer. Since the party's leadership is here, I am also pleased with your response and your firm rejection. In fact, even the public who listens to this matter, I think it is right that doubts should dissipate immediately, rather than any other suggestion, although in the past mandate there was also mail in this direction, but I thought it was a current character. That is why I am pleased with your answer and I apologize if you have any sense of this, as do you, as well as the President and the Director of the Institute, for any negative feeling, you do not need it. However, I propose that an expanded debate be held at the next meeting on how to prevent the negative impacts on long-term environmental development arising from economic activities, such as bioplenary and similar to those for the environment and agriculture of hazardous activities, as well as on the potential risk to human health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u370	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 11 July, in the framework of the votes. And one last question. Mag. Stanko Stepišnik will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology mag. Happy Zerjava.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u371	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. To be present in the Parliamentary Group – only one – Positive Slovenia, both ministers, nice greeting! One's leaving, the other's gonna have to wait. And the experts are here. Good-bye! It all starts with the economy and unfortunately ends with the economy. When it's the worst, the economy will be the one that has to play its part. We have a question for the Minister on competitiveness. First, indicators of lagging behind in Slovenia. After 2011, Slovenia is in 51st place after global competitiveness among 59 countries. After its economic performance, it fell from 22nd to 43rd in the last two years, after the government's efficiency from 38th to 53, after its business efficiency, even from 39th to 56th and after the infrastructure from 27th to 31st place. In the field of international investment, it is the worst in 58th place. In 2010, the World Bank assessed us among 183 countries and placed us in 53rd place. We are the worst in hiring workers, in 162nd place, after registering property at 108th place, after obtaining credit at 87th place and after trading abroad at 84th place. According to the OECD countries, the registration of assets lasts 15 times longer for us, the enforcement of contracts and employment are 3 times more difficult, the rigidity of working time and employment is 2 times higher. The 2010 European Innovation Seymour says that Slovenia has moved from moderate innovators to a group of innovative trackers, thus taking 13th place among the 27 countries in Europe. Slovenia is lagging behind in all forms and sources of financing for development and research, the share of the population with tertiary education and graduates of natural and technical sciences. Foreign direct investments amounted to about a billion dollars in last year, while foreign direct investments amounted to 112 million. This leaves us behind for the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Poland. In these countries, the inflow of foreign direct investment is about 40% of GDP, which is barely 20%. We're losing the battle of international competitiveness. We have failed to attract foreign capital. Working force is too expensive. Costs per unit of product are too high. Overcomplicated administration, market rigidity, inflexibility, inflexibility, high taxes, unfriendly [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u372	Thank you very much. Mag. Radovan Žerjav, Minister, please explain this question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u373	Thank you very much for this question, though it seems very similar to the one you asked me this afternoon. I hope you're not copying credits for all the information you've given us, which we've already recorded since this government was gone, to me. I hope not. Besides, I don't understand how this information you've just given could affect you within three, four, five months of the ministry. However, I can tell you one thing that is encouraging that exports increased by 1.1% compared to last year, but this is a positive information for the Slovenian economy in these times of crisis. I'm not gonna repeat what I said, but... As for competitiveness, which is a condition for economic growth, which you asked in the first question, it seems to me that we must think in at least five ways. One thing – I think you have defined for yourself – is tax legislation, but by further burdening the economy we will not raise competitiveness. Is it true? We won't. This means that businesses or economies need to be unloaded. We've partly done this. We can't afford it anymore. We were even criticised for taking a step in this direction of tax relief. Another important issue that you yourself have mentioned – labour law. After talking to foreign investors, with foreign entrepreneurs, this is our weakest point and point, which, in a competitive sense, pushes us down the lowest. Any foreign investor in Slovenia you ask will put labour legislation first. I hope that, in the next phase, through the third package of economic measures that we are preparing, and what is being prepared by colleague Vizjak, in short, the reform of labour law, we will take a step forward in this area. You know, given that you are an entrepreneur, there have been no significant movements in this regard since the old Yugoslavia. We have some of the labour legislation we had in the former system. So we need serious changes. If we make you work legally in the labour market, we will be able to talk about a serious breakthrough in competitiveness. If we don't do this, it won't. Of course, I hope and want a constructive and consensual dialogue with the social partners as well, so that the unions will finally understand the importance and gravity of this issue, as regards the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, so that we can take some important step forward in this area by the end of the year. The third point is investments, and you mentioned them. I have already mentioned many of the measures in this regard to you in the previous question. We are not competitive in this area and therefore foreign direct investment is not as much as it could be. I have raised many questions, from complicated administrative barriers to the construction of buildings, to the fact that we are not competitive in the cost of land. By the way, the price of land in the industrial zone in the immediate vicinity of Vienna costs between €5 and €10 per square metre. Find me an industrial zone where right now the entrepreneur can buy land at this price! I think that there is no such industrial zone in Slovenia right now, so they are more or less empty. The fourth point is knowledge This is one of the stronger points of competitiveness. All of us recognize that Slovenian education and universities, however, provide staff with good knowledge. There are mainly technical professions here, although we find that we do not have enough of them and we would need them more. And the fifth point is administrative obstacles, in all areas, at all ends and places. We've done this intensely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u374	Thank you very much. Yeah, you obviously want to complete the answer. I'm also asking you a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u375	Yeah, just for a refill. It is true that statistics are such that they always show plus or minus, but always for the previous period. Every piece of data that points to a plus is cheery. We too are extremely happy, especially for those indicators that show that economic growth is growing or that competitiveness is growing, as well as other things, if they are growing, sometimes it is good, but sometimes it is not. But this export competitiveness of Slovenia, measured by the movement of the market share of the economy, has only decreased by 16% in the last five years, saying that we have lost the world market by 16%. It is true that we have now repaired exports by a percentage. In the markets of the most important economic partners, however, we have lost 7.5% in the last five years, as the UMAR says. The cause is certainly technologically low to develop products that are not competitive in global markets. I pointed out earlier that the first phase of increasing the competitiveness of investment in R & D is that businesses need to innovate. And in Slovenia, more than 50% of companies do not innovate in their products, which in some time magazine means that in the coming months or years they will come among those companies that are mature for insolvency or bankruptcy. It is therefore necessary to encourage more research, motivate research and development, especially those companies which are export-oriented, because these are our towing horses which have products that are competitive, globally competitive and are at a high technological level, because they have the potential for development and research, have the potential to work in high value-added jobs and are the only ones who are able to pull this car forward with their brains.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u376	Is there anything else you'd like to add to Minister Radovan Žerjav? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u377	If we've been here this long, and we're going to a place, it's called. Maybe a sentence or two, because I was running out of time before. A few more things we've been planning and predicting. I believe that flat-rate taxation for micro and small enterprises is necessary to simplify tax legislation in this area. We still haven't written off the social cap, which I think is also crucial to the competitiveness of businesses, especially in the part where it is necessary for the person who has called on companies to do the utmost to make businesses as much as possible to cope with the crisis, to talk about the creative work of the employees, to make that part work easier. These measures are still coming. However, since you have mentioned some important issues, let me add that, through the public invitations that are part of this package, the other, let me only mention some of them, because this confirms what you yourself said about innovation, about research and development. A few calls: an invitation to tender to promote investment; an invitation to tender for the promotion of employment in development cores; a short notice on the recruitment of researchers or the re-employment of researchers from the scientific sphere into the economy; an invitation to tender for the so-called P1 type 2012 – a guarantee for technologically innovative projects; this is an important invitation to tender for the Slovenian entrepreneurship fund; then an invitation to tender for the development of new creative cores each year; then the next call for a research voucher, which is important in this spirit in which you speak, and a call for the promotion of the development of new creative cores. In short, all these things are going in the direction you yourself have set out, of course with the means we have at our disposal. I agree, you'll say, yes with more money, with 10 billion could be done more, I agree, but unfortunately we don't have that 10 billion and we're doing what we have at our disposal. In short, it is the intention of the government to continue with measures to create a more competitive business environment in Slovenia. As we began, we will continue to do so in the autumn work that is coming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u378	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u379	As Europe has already realized, after the Stability Pact, there is still a need to make a growth and employment pact after the euro pact, I think that in Slovenia too there will be a recognition that economic growth and employment will be given priority. Therefore, this competitiveness is so important that it would be important, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, to be regarded as public treatment. I propose a general hearing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-05.ana.u380	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 11 July, in the framework of the votes. I thank the Prime Minister, the Minister and the ministers for their answers. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue on Wednesday, 11 July, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed decisions. I also adjourn the fifth session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you so much and good night.
