ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! It's nine, one and a half minutes. We're scheduled to start the sessions at 9:00 sharp, so I'd like to ask you to calm down so we can start the meeting. Can I? Thank you. We continue the fourth session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's session cannot be attended: Mag. Barbara Žginer Tavš, Mr Robert Battelli, mag. Matthew Tonin, Mr Matevž Frangež and Mr Richard Braniselj by 12 noon. Nicely greeted! We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, that is to say, a bill on amendments and amendments to the Roads Act following an emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Zvonk Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u2	All in attendance, all in attendance! Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Before us is a small novel or addition to the Law on Roads. In one part of the amendments follow European regulation, specifically this novelty is intended for the implementation of Directive 2010/40/EU in the framework of the introduction of smart road transport systems and for interfaces to other modes of transport. In accordance with the provisions of the Directive, Member States must provide a legal framework for the implementation of the technical specifications in the field of ITS adopted by the European Commission. In accordance with the proposal of the law, individual applications or services of intelligent transport systems in the Republic of Slovenia will be used if such use is found to be appropriate in our country. This will include measures necessary to implement the specifications that will ensure respect for the principles set out in the Directive, in particular the principles of efficiency, the implementation of interoperability, the principles of maintaining compatibility with existing systems, respect for the protection of personal data and others. Let me also mention at this point, in view of the debate and in view of the amendments that have been considered by the home committee, that this area is, it is said, a great deal of emphasis is placed on the protection of personal data, especially in view of the information systems involved, and in view of the possibilities that may be misused in such cases. This allows the collection of these data only if necessary for the operation of applications or for the operation of intelligent transport systems services. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Space will monitor and analyse the development of intelligent transport systems in the Republic of Slovenia and abroad and the use of applications and services, working with comparable authorities from other Member States. As the directive imposes, the Ministry of the European Commission will report every three years on the progress made in the field of intelligent transport systems. The second part of this novel, which is relatively small but important, deals with some other individual issues, which have proved to be problematic in practice in almost two years of implementation of this law, and as a result of this change we regulate and calculate that we are also addressing the problems faced on the one hand by operators and on the other hand by users of the road or road network. Let me point out at this point, in particular, the regulation of the payment of road barriers removal costs, so that the costs incurred by infringements of road use rules are borne by their driver and not by road maintenance, the elimination of certain bureaucratic barriers to the production of investment documentation in less demanding actions or parts which do not affect outside the public road area, thereby reducing the costs associated with such works and, on the other hand, reducing the time spent on such works. Let me also point out a change in the calculation of the costs of road safety assessors so that their services will be accounted for at the prescribed price, as is the case with other regulated activities. Let me also highlight the regulation of some operational issues relating to the operation of the National Traffic Management Centre Dragomelje, which will allow for its faster and easier establishment and operation in favour of all actors in transport. Finally, the harmonisation of certain criminal provisions with the Law on Offences or the Law on Road Traffic Rules. The novelty goes in two directions, in one part to comply with European regulation and in the other part to facilitate or simplify certain procedures that have proved to be an obstacle to the implementation of individual regulatory works on the road network in the Republic of Slovenia. For this reason, I invite you to support this amendment in the context of the urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u3	Thank you, Minister. The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and Space as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to Mr Daniel Krivec to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Infrastructure and Space Committee shall be held at its 9th emergency meeting. 6. 2012 addressed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Roads Act, which was sent to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government, with a proposal to deal with it following an urgent procedure, as confirmed by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 17th meeting. The Committee was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the State Council and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In addition to the basic material, the Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the opinion of the Commission on Local Self-Government and the Regional Assembly of the State Council and the comments of Dars d. d. [[..]] In the introductory explanation of the articles of the bill, the representative of the proposaler Zvona Černač, Minister of Infrastructure and Freedom, said that the proposed amendments to the Roads Act relate mainly to the transposition of Directive 2010/40 of the European Parliament and of the Council into our legal system. This Directive lays down the conditions for the adoption of specifications on the services or applications of ITS intelligent transport systems in road transport with interfaces to other modes of transport. The proposed amendments to the law are primarily intended to ensure that these specifications develop legal effects that must be dealt with in the introduction of ITS measures into our legal order. The second part of the proposed amendments and the amendment of the law relate to some minor changes which have been shown to be necessary on the basis of the implementation of the law so far. These changes will facilitate the implementation of individual procedures as well as the pricing of services. The proposed law also addresses certain issues concerning the establishment and future functioning of the National Transport Management Centre. The legislative and legal service has examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the legislative technical aspect and has commented on certain articles of the bill. At the meeting of the Committee, the representative of the service made comments which were not fully taken into account by the amendments tabled. The bill was also addressed by the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the State Council, which supports the bill. The Commission is pleased to note that the proposed law simplifies and reduces the unnecessary costs of state and municipal budgets. The Commission also supports the proposal to extend the powers of municipal editors in Article 10 of the Law. In the context of the examination of the draft law in accordance with Articles 126, 128, 131 and 132 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled. The Committee adopted all the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. The Committee also adopted an amendment to Article 9, which was editorial in nature. After discussion on the individual articles of the draft law and after discussion and vote on the amendments in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u5	I thank the chairman of the committee. We are now moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups. First of all, Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u6	Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Roads Act, which was sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Government with a proposal to deal with it following an urgent procedure. The introductory part of the law is the obligation of the Republic of Slovenia, as Member States of the European Union, to transpose the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the introduction of intelligent road transport systems, which will apply throughout Europe. This Directive is thus transposed into our legal system and creates a framework for the introduction of intelligent transport systems in the Republic of Slovenia. This is not new for Slovenia, as the profession in Slovenia has followed international developments in the field of intelligent transport systems. The second part of the Act concerns amendments and additions to the individual provisions of the current Road Law. The main and fundamental objective of the amendment of the law is to simplify procedures, thereby increasing efficiency and also appreciating certain services. Better road management is regulated, a method of evaluation of road safety assessors is established, effective control of road users is ensured, better efficiency is achieved in the production of investment documentation for less demanding facilities and the national traffic management centre in the Republic of Slovenia is regulated in relation to the Directive adopted above. As we say, we will support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u7	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u8	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Roads Act, when it comes to compliance with European legislation, we have no problem with the Social Democrats to confirm this law. The problem is, ladies and gentlemen, that under urgent procedures we accept those supplements that are not part of such a procedure, and it would suggest that procedures should be taken so that we can discuss them and think about them. It is particularly problematic, Mr President, that we do not take into account the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. Of course, I am not sure whether the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly are those which can apply 99 or 100 %. I am also not sure that this is the case with the opinions of lawyers in the Ministry. Of course, it would be a good time to adopt such laws that change something that we have two different opinions, or two different opinions, so that experts in this area can harmonise each other, that we can get a unified opinion and that we can say that we have adopted a law in the National Assembly, to which the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has no comments. That's not what happened in this marriage. Mr President of the Committee also said that we have not adopted all the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, which is of course not problematic if these opinions were in line with those who have proposed this. And now we have come to the conclusion that some of the provisions that we oppose have been adopted. Some things according to their content do not belong to this law and represent changes that we could not agree with anyone. Social Democrats are not opposed to the transposition of directives, but we are opposed to amending the law in a way that is non-transparent, in a way that does not allow debate, nor does it allow for the verification of everything that will happen, so when we vote in this law against it because of the way in which the law changes a lot more. It's not right for us to set up a location that is not disputed as the headquarters of the ITS. But, of course, the dispute is the very way. The way in which property is different in land registers than it is today, and with this law we do something that we should not actually do with the law. It is also a matter of simplifying the documentation when it comes to the construction of a basic building and we could do a lot of other things at this facility. It is also project documentation, which in itself is not disputed if we can talk about content if we can discuss it with those who know more about it. Therefore, Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen, we should be extremely careful to direct our actions in order not only to be a simple tool of the Slovenian government, whatever this Slovenian government is, so that, after very quick, urgent and different procedures, we do not prevent a democratic debate and perform our role. In doing so, Mr President, you have a very important role to play. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u9	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, the National Gazette shall have the word Mrs Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u10	Mr President, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! We are in favour of a simple country in the Citizens' List, with modern information technology playing an important role in optimising processes and innovation in data management. The new road law that we are considering today brings exactly this. It allows the accelerated implementation of innovative transport concepts, which will help to make the transport system safer, more efficient and user-friendly. Modern information systems provide a better service for an individual as well as for companies and play an important role in the management of transport, efficient charging and provide flexible transport services. ITS can provide this through the use of recent knowledge and developmental achievements in the areas of telephony, satellite navigation, computer science. By adopting this novel into the Slovenian legal order, we bring the provisions of the Directive of the European Union, whose transposition deadline has already expired in February of this year. The Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council sets an important milestone for the introduction of ITS into road transport. In Europe, there is currently a very large gap between the quality and the extent of data used as information in the transport system. In order to ensure optimum performance, consistent, reliable and quality data are needed to ensure optimal, operational and commercial decision-making in transport. The Directive follows this by providing an important instrument for the coordinated functioning of ITS in Europe and ensuring safer, sustainable and competitive mobility in the European area. This novel also brings some other solutions that in practice make the implementation of the current road law more difficult. This simplifies and specifies procedures for the transfer of roads, for the determination of prices by which road safety assessors perform their duties and for the authorization of police and municipal officials to manage the control of the prohibited use of public road. It also regulates procedures for the establishment and future operation of the National Transport Management Centre, which will supervise, guide and coordinate transport management at national level in regular and extraordinary cases. The solutions brought by the novel will help to bring about a safer, more efficient and user-friendly transport system, which is why the Members of the National List will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u11	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u12	Dear Minister, Madam Members and Members, welcome! We have before us the amendment to the Roads Act, the main purpose of which is to transpose Directive 2010/40 of the European Parliament and of the Council into the Slovenian legal order and to improve the operationality of the law in the areas of road construction and reconstruction. The status of the national traffic management centre is also fully regulated. Much of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Roads Act relates to the transposition of the European Directive establishing the framework for the introduction of intelligent transport systems, in short ITS, in road transport. This Directive lays down the conditions for the adoption of specifications on ITS services or applications in road transport with interfaces to other modes of transport. The Directive does not impose on Member States the introduction of ITS applications and services in their territory, but it merely provides that the possible introduction of such applications should be in accordance with those specifications to be issued by the European Commission. The proposed law therefore seeks to ensure that the specifications develop legal effects that must be dealt with in the introduction of ITS measures. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that the ITS and its introduction into real transport flows is undoubtedly a great potential for the development of transport on the European continent, particularly with regard to improving the safety of transport participants and reducing environmental impacts. It should also be pointed out that the proposed law does not have any financial implications, which will arise in the future by introducing ITS applications and services. It also seems important to us that Member States, including Slovenia, will be able to make their own decisions when and how these applications and services will be introduced, so that the implementation of these systems can be better adapted to their financial capabilities. As has already been said, the second part of the proposed amendment to the Roads Act refers to certain amendments which have been proven necessary under the implementation of the law. To this end, procedures for maintenance works on public roads are being reduced, the scope of the construction of the public road is more precisely defined, the uniform evaluation and payment of services, assessors, road safety, and the competence to control illegal road closures is extended to the municipal authorities and the police in view of the effectiveness of the procedure. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, as a positive assessment of the solution set out in Article 5 of the bill proposing that investment maintenance works on public roads will no longer have to produce the entire investment documentation, as this will allow the renewal process to be reduced and the reconstruction works to be completed more quickly. In addition to these simplifications, the proposed law fully regulates the position of the national traffic management centre, based in Dragomlje, which is the only possible facility for the smooth implementation of all traffic management and public information tasks, and therefore makes sense for us to place it in the proposed law. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that the solutions proposed in the amendment to the Roads Act are appropriate, as they represent the first stone in the mosaic of simplification of procedures in the field of investment in infrastructure, followed by other systemic measures in the coming weeks. For these reasons, we will unanimously support the proposed law in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u13	Thank you. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Plevčak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u14	What a lovely greeting to all present! This time's amendment to the Roads Act brings some changes to the alignment of the European Directive with our legislation. In accordance with the provisions of the Directive, Member States must provide a legal framework for the implementation of technical specifications in the field of intelligent transport systems. On the other hand, some other issues related to the implementation of the law are addressed on the basis of practical experience. These other solutions are justifiable and welcome as they address some shortcomings and simplify procedures related to road works. According to the law in force, a sanction for road damage causes is added in terms of cost settlement, removal of obstacles or other consequences of prohibited conduct or road barriers insurance. This idea makes sense, as the consequences of the behaviour of the agents are not justified, if they are known, to impose on society as a whole. We also consider the new definition of the scope of public roads and the related removal of bureaucratic and financial barriers to the production of investment documentation in less demanding parts that fall within the framework of road infrastructure construction. The law also provides for a uniform evaluation and calculation of the costs of road safety assessors at a price determined by the Minister. It seems appropriate for us to value this work in the same way as for other comparable licensed activities. Thus, it is possible that the costs of the work of the assessors could be lower than they have been before. The force shall also be removed by an ineffective provision on the competence of only the traffic inspectorate in respect of the infringement of the prohibition on the use of public road for the purpose of obstructing and preventing traffic, by extending that power to the police and the municipal authorities. However, there are other ways to harmonise this law in relation to illegal legislation. It is also necessary to agree to supplement the provisions relating to the establishment and operation of a national traffic management centre. Since the proposal for a law brings in addition to the mandatory transposition of the European acquis into our own fairly good solutions, we will support it in the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u15	Thank you. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Janez Vasle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u16	The provisions of Commission Directive 2010/40EC provide a framework for the introduction of intelligent transport systems in road transport and other modes of transport. This will lay the foundations for the integration of state-of-the-art information and telecommunications techniques into transport systems and means of transport. In New Slovenia, we believe that this will increase traffic safety, improve drivers' information and traffic flow, and consequently reduce negative environmental impacts. The amendment of this law will also lay down new conditions for planning investments in road construction and maintenance. We expect that more cost-effectiveness can be achieved in the production of investment documentation than ever before and that planning will be faster. The amendments will also offer improvements to some of the provisions that have proved in practice inadequate and hindered road infrastructure management. In New Slovenia we estimate that changes to the law are necessary and meaningful in the light of improving our standard of living, better management and maintaining a clean environment. For all these reasons, we will break the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u18	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! In Positive Slovenia we advocate a progressive and fair country, so we support advanced solutions, but not injustice. At a time of globalisation, the need for mobility has increased significantly in all countries of the European Union. Because of heavy traffic congestion, traffic congestion often occurs. In the past, due to increased traffic flows, it was possible to build infrastructure for greater capacity or to expand existing transport links, but for spatial and economic reasons and adverse environmental impacts of infrastructure could not be extended indefinitely. In many countries, the problem of excessive transport burdens is being addressed through the development and introduction of active traffic management systems and the introduction of intelligent transport systems and services. The European Commission also proposes to regulate this area and the activities needed to develop transport in Europe in order to ensure efficient, high-quality and safe services. Therefore, the amendment of the Law on Public Roads or the transposition of the Directive on ITS systems is welcome, but it must be borne in mind that Member States are not obliged to introduce applications and services of intelligent transport systems in their national territory, but should they decide to introduce them, this should be in accordance with the specifications. These amendments to the law are primarily intended to ensure that the specifications issued by the Commission develop legal effects that must be followed by the introduction of measures of intelligent transport systems and services. That is why in Positive Slovenia we are referring to the Government initiative to prepare a strategy for the introduction of such systems in our country, both at the country level and at the regional level and also at the level of our two largest cities. Here I aim mainly at Ljubljana and Maribor, cities on the circle of two European transport corridors. We would also like to point out that with the development of technologies for intelligent transport systems and services we have a large number of companies and research institutions. The projects are therefore quite something, but unfortunately we miss a joint performance or strategy for the development of such systems, both at the level of the country and at the regional and municipal level, and it would be particularly important to take steps forward. In Positive Slovenia, the proposaler is reminded that, as has been the case so far, the draft law, which we are considering only on the basis of EU requirements, has decided to amend other articles which are not related to the ITS Directive, and these changes bring some innovations mainly in the area of spatial public road regulations, which are a shift from existing building and spatial planning legislation. In addition, they represent a special intervention in just one type of building — roads. Since this is a derogation from the system regime which reduces the transparency and consistency of the legal regime in force, and since this novelty is covered only in one paragraph of the article, which, in our opinion, will lead to difficulties in implementation, we cannot support this solution. The complications brought about by the amendment of the law regarding the establishment of the National Traffic Management Centre, although we welcome the expansion of its work cycle or the tasks of the Centre, strengthen us in the belief that the Government of Amendments should not take action in this way. The establishment of ownership rights at the control centre in Dragomlje, which is owned by Darsa and which has not been transferred by any legal activity to the Republic of Slovenia, is not a matter of law, or such a decision constitutes the maintenance of the property or property built by Dars. This land or property represents a real state contribution to Dars, which is already 100 % of the property of the Republic of Slovenia. We would also mention some simplifications regarding the performance of investment maintenance works and maintenance works for the public benefit of which the investment document will no longer be produced, with the exception of a document identifying the investment project and an investment performance report. As the volume of investment maintenance works and maintenance works can thus move between a few tens of thousands of euros or a few million euros, we are asked how we will ensure transparency in the use of public funds due to the minimum possible standard. The latter is why we will also abstain from these solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u19	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We do not have any amendments, so I am concluding a second reading of the bill. We will decide on the bill tomorrow as part of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. Agenda item — First draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Religious Freedom. The draft law was tabled by a group of 14 Members and Members, with the first signed mag. Majdo Potrat. With regard to this proposal, the Group of 10 Members and Members, with the same initial signature, also requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Magi. Majdi Potter as the first to be signed under the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. "The freedom of expression, speech and public expression is guaranteed. Confession of religion and other definitions in private and public life is free." So say Articles 39 and 41 of the Constitution. The Religious Freedom Act should apply amendments and additions to the Constitutional Court on 8 June last year. The Office for Religious Communities has drawn up a proposal and was tabled in the legislative procedure by a group of 29 Members and Members, first signed by Anton Anderlic, on that date. A second hearing was initiated on the Committee on Internal Policy, the meeting was suspended and the President did not call for a continuation of the meeting before the adjournment of Parliament. Thus, the legislative process has been completed. On 18 May, 14 Members and Members of the parliamentary groups of Social Democrats and Positive Slovenia tabled a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Religious Freedom. This amendment summarises the previous proposal, the amendments to the proposal and the reasoned comments of the interested public involved in the drafting of the law and takes into account the tight financial situation. In particular, it points out that he has prepared and led the Office for Religious Communities, with a different willingness to cooperate with the public concerned. The public debate on the starting points for the reform of the Law on Religious Freedom has brought and broken down the principled views of the largest religious communities on the proposed amendments to the law, which were identical in the belief that only those amendments to the law provided for in the Constitutional Decision should be implemented, but not all others proposed by the Office for Religious Communities. Political parties were not involved in the public debate. The public debate touched on all the essential elements that are also established in the novel under consideration: the equalisation of the legal situation of religious and secular communities, registration procedure, financing and spiritual care and holidays. The proposal follows these sets, and we have abandoned the holiday articles because savings measures reduce their number and may be enforced by an individual under the Labour Relations Act. The proposed regulation aims to fill the gap in the Slovenian legal order and to ensure a higher level of protection of the collective aspect of freedom of conscience. I stress that the aim of the amendment is to fully regulate the collective aspect of human freedom of conscience, to bring it in line with the requirements of the Constitutional Court decision and to make it more responsive to the actual situation, and to make it more open and equal than the current regulation, for example, in the case of specific rights which do not fall within Article 41 of the Constitution. The fundamental principles of the Law on Religious Freedom in the essential part remain unchanged, but responses to the proposed law cannot be expected to be controversial. Even the time to deal with this subject seems never appropriate. So far, no treatment has been able to overcome the issue, but respect for the Constitutional Court's decision is binding on the applicants. In democracy, Parliament is the place for debate and decision-making, and we are pleased to say that the National Assembly is the temple of democracy. The Minister, who, following the amendment of the Government Act, is responsible for the Office of Religious Communities, Dr. Žiga Turk and the Secretary-General of the Government, replied to the question raised by the Member States concerning the regulation of religious freedom in the Republic of Slovenia regarding the obligation to adopt amendments and the addition of the Religious Freedom Act, that, due to the deadline laid down by the Constitutional Court, the law was classified in the category of mandatory rules. The main objectives of the novel are: firstly, the removal of inconsistencies with the Constitution regarding the criteria for the registration of religious communities and the employment of priests in hospitals and prisons; secondly, the regulation of issues that have proved to be very difficult in practice or could lead to difficulties in the future; thirdly, a new way of financing; fourthly, the regulation of religious spiritual care in public institutions where members are made it difficult to exercise the right to religious freedom.; fifth, introduction of the world-renowned communities. I propose that you allow the law to proceed with the legislative procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u21	Thank you. To explain my opinion, I give the floor to Dr. Alexander Zorn, Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has examined the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Religious Freedom, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members, with the first signed by Mrs Majdo Potrata. The Government considers that the proposed solutions to the draft law are already inappropriate at principle level and affect the conceptual regulation of the law on religious freedom, since the concrete solutions proposed can, in cases such as the case, lead to an unconstitutional situation and run counter to the views of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia to the applicable Law on Religious Freedom adopted on 15 April 2010. The concept of the bill is based on an unconstitutional understanding of the religious freedom of Article 41 of the Constitution in relation to the second paragraph of Article 16 of the Constitution and the related principle of separation of the State and the religious communities referred to in Article 7 of the Constitution. The Constitution provides in Article 39 for freedom of expression and provides that freedom of expression, speech and public expression is guaranteed and in Article 41, that confession of religion and other definitions in private and public life is free in Article 7 of the Constitution and that separation between State and religious communities is provided for. [[..]] Collective religious freedom is defined in the second paragraph of the same Article, for which the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted the view that the State must actively create the conditions for the effective free functioning of religious communities. In addition, the Constitutional Court found that the principle of separation between the State and the religious communities in the Republic of Slovenia does not mean that any support and assistance is excluded. Therefore, the concept of the principle of strict separation between the State and the religious communities is not adopted in the Republic of Slovenia, but rather the concept of State cooperation with religious communities, while respecting the principle of State sovereignty and the autonomy of religious communities. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia adopted in that decision on 15 April the view that the modern democratic and social state actively participates in a number of social areas, which it indirectly or directly promotes in various ways. As religious communities carry out their tasks in these areas on the basis of their beliefs, they must not be ignored or even excluded by the State in promoting and promoting various activities in society. The State's religious neutrality does not mean that faith is being pushed to the sidelines of society, as this could lead to quite the opposite, discrimination based on faith and denial of neutrality. The principle of separation does not prevent the State from establishing positive relations, forms of cooperation and joint efforts with those of the religious communities, which also carry out general useful and charitable activities, as well as with other civil society organisations. We note that the applicant has consistently disregarded the positive aspect of religious freedom and is trying to apply the principle of State and religious separation in extremely restrictive form and, in particular, the application of the exclusion of religious communities from public life. Such an exception is unacceptable to a free democratic society in which diversity is tolerated and accepted and in which no part of civil society can be excluded from public life. It follows from both the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and international documents that the State must conduct open, transparent and regular dialogue with churches and religious communities, which means that the proposal for a law should be in line with churches and religious communities, which was not taken into account in this case. The government therefore opposes this proposal, with all that has been said before, because it does not consider it appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u23	Thank you. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. First, Mr Mirko Brulc, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u24	Dear Mr President, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In the light of the economic and financial crisis, and in the fact that the government has immediately lifted the Office of Religious Communities at the time of its term of office and has already intervened in the Public Finance Balance Act in the area that we are dealing with today, in particular because of the fact that the proposed law removes inconsistencies with the constitution that should have been abolished before the good year, we support the amendment of the Law on Religious Freedom in the Group of Social Democrats. The law brings important solutions that eliminate the legal void. It takes account of the decision of the Constitutional Court and at the same time deals with issues which have proved to be difficult in past practice. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the proposed novelties follow the rules already in force in other legislation, such as the Social Act and the Accounting Act. The key provisions which the Constitutional Court repeals relate to the criteria for the registration of religious communities and are therefore set a lower threshold in the amendment. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that a uniform regime of religious spiritual care in public institutions is also well resolved, where persons in these institutions are hampered by the exercise of religious freedom rights, while taking due account of the constitutional principle of the separation of the church from the state. Furthermore, it is worth mentioning that a new mode of funding is urgently needed as it has been shown that there are currently no credible data on religion, since the latest list of this data is no longer available. The 2002 census, which was the basis for the allocation of funds until 2011, is obsolete. According to the amendment, financial resources would be allocated on the basis of the Institute for the Purpose of Income for Grants, with the law providing for a previous four-year period in which individual religious communities would have sufficient time to familiarise themselves with the new regime. An important addition is the introduction of world-renowned communities, which have been treated equally for the first time compared with churches and other religious communities. Equal treatment is also addressed by the Constitutional Court in its decision all three terms, churches and religious and secular communities, and their equal treatment is also referred to in the Treaty of Lisbon or, more specifically, in the third paragraph of Article 17 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which is the appropriate legislation of the European Union. As a result of this, the decision in the Group of Social Democrats has fallen to support the proposal that the law is suitable for further consideration and we want the legislative procedure to continue with the approval of the decision. By continuing the procedure, it will also be possible to accept any additions and corrections that we have or will hear when presenting the views of other groups of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u25	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the National Gazette, Mrs Polonca Komar shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, my friend! In the Civil Gazette, we have carefully examined the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Religious Freedom, as it is a matter of changes to the conceptual regulation of the existing law. The fact is that the Constitutional Court, by decision UI92/7, repealed the provisions of the Religious Freedom Act relating to the criteria for the registration of religious communities and the provisions relating to the State employment of priests in hospitals and prisons for the exercise of religious spiritual care. The provision explicitly imposes certain obligations on the legislator, while stressing the fundamental rules of freedom of conscience or belief in the Republic of Slovenia, which point to certain shortcomings in the regulation in force. Today's proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Religious Freedom regulates and clearly draws attention to the many issues that have arisen in practice. For example, it points out that only the register of religious communities, but not the register of their constituents, is governed by the applicable legislation, and raises the issue of the use of personal data from the Register of Churches. Records of religious communities and their constituents are still kept separately. Once in the Business Register of Slovenia and twice in the Register of Churches and Other Religious Communities. The latter is still run manually. Finally, some religious communities and components carry out profitable activities on their own basis. In the Civil Gazette, we are very committed to transparency, rationality and clarity in all areas of our lives. We therefore believe that the register of churches and other religious communities should be transparent and that data on religious communities should be currently coordinated and publicly accessible in the register. However, according to the various expert opinions obtained, we cannot go beyond the fact that existing legislation, with the direct and indirect financing of religious communities in practice, also allows for the possibility of a grey economy. However, in promoting and promoting various activities in society, the State should not ignore or even exclude churches and religious communities in performing their duties on the basis of their beliefs, but should conduct open, transparent and regular dialogue with them, so we would like to see the proposal for a new law in line with the churches and religious communities. A proper public debate before the adoption of the new law would also lead to a broader public opinion. Since the Constitutional Court has annulled certain provisions of the Religious Freedom Act by a decision, we consider that the findings of the Constitutional Court are binding on us. The deadline for the elimination of the findings was one year from the publication. It's June 8, 2011. Since this deadline, there has been an unconstitutional legal void that leads to uncertainty and uncertainty in the exercise of this human right. We believe that this legal void must be eliminated. This fact should already be sufficient if today's proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Religious Freedom would not be adopted, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would prepare the necessary amendments to the law as soon as possible. The final decision of the members of the Civil Service List on support for the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Religious Freedom will depend on each of us to assess the arguments heard for both members of the Group and colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u27	Thank you. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, Mr Michael Prevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honorable representative of the government, distinguished colleague and colleague! Members of the Slovenian People's Party will not support the proposed law, because we believe that it is not necessary and does not comply with the stated objectives and principles set out by the applicants in their explanation. Moreover, it is not the right time to open ideological debates, which we believe is in fact intended for this time to be a bill. The indisputable fact is that the law’s intended purpose was not involved in the drafting of the law. These are representatives of the largest churches in Slovenia, not of the religious community, nor of the Council of Christian Churches in Slovenia, nor of the Islamic Community in the Republic of Slovenia, which all express concern about this bill. What is the purpose of this law, then? The law goes beyond the purpose of enacting amendments under the 2007 Constitutional Decision, which has repealed only the provisions relating to the criteria for the registration of religious communities and the provisions relating to the State employment of priests for the implementation of religious spiritual care to sick and detained persons and soldiers. In doing so, we stress that the latter are also taxpayers and therefore have the right, which is everyone's human right to have access to spiritual care, even when they are immobile, sick, on duty or detained, and therefore the State is entitled to provide them with spiritual care when they are in a position not to be able to meet their own spiritual needs. The rights to spiritual care in the military, police, prisons and other institutions are regulated by law and are internationally comparable. We can therefore argue that the proposed law significantly reduces the standards of human rights protection achieved in our country and is therefore, in particular, contrary to the Constitution. In most comparable European countries, relations between the state, the church and between believers and the state and religious communities have long been resolved. In our country, however, we were able to arrange this for the satisfaction of believers and churches and other religious communities only in 2007. The law before us is another type of experiment, and it is probably not the last one to want to expel the spirituality and religious organizations that have proven themselves to be working for the welfare of all societies in the recent past. The clergy and other dedicated persons of the religious communities perform an important function in satisfying the human need for spirituality and professing faith. In addition, they carry out a number of other activities, such as charitative, educational, educational, humanitarian, cultural and similar. Funding is regulated in the current law in accordance with the principle of equality, as the State has committed itself in the law on the realization of the public interest in culture to fund social contributions and contributions to health insurance for all self-employed people in culture. The exclusion of religious servants would therefore constitute discrimination on the basis of religion. The law contains detailed funding criteria and provides that material support can also be regulated in other laws. Once again, it is trying to limit religious freedom and by citing alleged unconstitutionality, and to silence that most of our citizens are members of one or other church or religious community. Through constant attempts to amend this law, the issue of religion is being used to politicise and open ideological debates for the daily needs of politics. Part of the law or articles that have been defined as inextricable by the Constitution should the Government correct and propose amendments. The other changes are not necessary as the law was coordinated with the religious communities at the time of adoption. This must be done by those to whom the law is intended, as provided for in normal democratic society, as well as in other laws. There is no constitutional requirement for the separation of the State and religious communities and must not be an obstacle to any cooperation with religious communities until such time as the State is religiously neutral and is not identical with the faith or religious communities. I therefore reiterate that we will not support this bill in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u29	Thank you. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u30	Dear Mr President, all present! I would like to make a statement on the position of the DeSUS Group and would like to say the following in the introduction. Both DeSUS and its Members stand for a social and legal state. We advocate consistent respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which must provide us with basic guidance in the adoption of legislation. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in its provisions, also clearly defines, inter alia, the way religious freedom, a clear and unequivocal principle of State separation from the church as the right and freedom of religion or freedom of thought. At the same time, it is the duty of the State to be the last guardian of the independence and autonomy of civil society entities. In the DeSUS Group, we have thoroughly revised the text of the current law on religious freedom and the proposed amendment that we are currently considering, and we believe that it is time, in accordance with established standards and the actual situation, to deal adequately with issues related to the free functioning of religious communities. The foundation of our democratic system must be respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the creation of a guarantee for their realization. In the DeSUS Group we advocate the constitutional principle of laity and the principle of equality of all churches and religious communities and accept the visual diversity of all in Slovenia. However, we argue that the country should be globally neutral and as far away from religion as it should be from atheism. Religious freedom is a personal matter for each individual, and we are obliged to respect it as long as it is in accordance with the legal order of the State. We are obliged to respect the humanitarian, charitable, charitable, educational, cultural and educational work of religious communities of great importance to our society. Members and Members of the National Assembly are also obliged to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The Law on Religious Freedom was the subject of constitutional judgment. The conclusions reached by the Constitutional Court contain a constitutional decision, so I will not repeat them here, but some explain it very narrowly. The Constitutional Court has not merely repealed the provisions of the law relating to the employment of religious servants and the registration of religious communities. I must point out that a constitutional decision must be read in an integrated, full explanation and not merely a narrow sentence. There is much more to the explanation. The Constitutional Court has made it clear that such an intensive way of supporting the functioning of the State, as defined by the current religious freedom law, goes beyond the limits established by the constitutional principle of separation between the State and the religious communities. The Constitutional Court has thus clearly pointed out, among other things, the following shortcomings in the current regime: the right to freedom of conscience is the basis of the legal regulation of the human right to religious freedom. The subject of protection within the framework of freedom of conscience is the definitions and beliefs of ethics or morality, in particular all theistic, atheistic, nontheistic beliefs. Religious communities should be treated equally with world-level associations. The financing of religious communities from public funds does not fall within the scope of the human right to religious freedom, but this is permissible if the criteria do not violate the principle of separation and do not constitute an assessment of religion or belief and taking into account the equality of all religious communities and the neutrality of the State. The European Court of Human Rights has also made clear on the issue of the regulation of religious communities: in a specific case, if a religious community is given priority, this must be inversely proportional to its size. And now I ask: is the law now in force consistently following all these definitions? In our Group, we are convinced that it is necessary to cut into the basic law with the aim of regulating the issues raised by the Constitutional Court. We must admit that the novel under consideration opens up most of these issues, or in an appropriate way, and will prove itself during the debate. In doing so, we must not ignore the fact, but some issues can be settled differently during the legislative process. The main objective of the proposed novel is the consistent implementation of the constitutional principle, mainly from the point of view of the financing of religious communities by the State. With regard to most of these issues, whether recognised or not, the Slovenian public is still quite divided and divided today, as it considers that the autonomous position of religious communities in public life is certainly fully justified, while it is aware and seen that the expectations of favoured religious communities regarding the material situation and special benefits are unfounded and are now almost absurd. The DeSUS Group does not in any way advocate material support for religious communities by the State solely because of their social status, but only for activities with cultural and social elements. Here I should add that the area of financing of the religious community is so diversified and opaque with us that it is virtually impossible to make clear how much of the budget outflow represents financial support to these religious communities. As an example, when the basic law was adopted, the latter repealed all the provisions of the previous 1976 Law on the Legal Status of Religious Communities, with the exception of the 20th Article, which is still in force today and provides material support to religious communities. We believe that religious communities should be aligned with generally beneficial civil society institutions when applying for public funds, so that the basic law should also be defined by world-view associations, but should certainly be based on equality of all religious communities. The provisions for the registration of individual religious communities, which are the basis for the scope of material support, should not be based on the 2002 census, but should be adapted to the actual situation in our country. We are aware that the proposed law is not perfect, but we consider that it is an appropriate basis for the adoption of the positions taken by the Constitutional Court. The DeSUS Group is leaning towards supporting the bill. Our final decision will be clear after the debate held at today's assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u31	Thank you. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u32	Dear President, distinguished Mr Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! New Slovenia, as a Christian public party, justifies its attitude towards churches and religious communities on the assumption that religious belief is a personal decision of individuals who are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and members of the church and of the religious community. As with all other areas of human life and action, the state lays down, by its legal order, a space of freedom and responsibility. This must also be done for churches and religious communities, which is regulated in Slovenia by the applicable law on religious freedom. In the past, freedom of religion has been violated and trampled in Slovenia. Some continue to push their faith into the sphere of private and private, hence the impeccable understanding of the constitutional principle of separation between the State and religious communities in terms of the elimination or expulsion of those from social life. New Slovenia advocates modern legal standards that distinguish between the mission of churches and religious communities and the tasks of the state. However, because churches and religious communities are primarily active in the field of religion and ethics are so generally beneficial. The task of the State is to support their operation and is in constant dialogue with all churches and religious communities, especially those who have a centuries-old tradition in Slovenia and who have contributed significantly to Slovenian identity. The new Slovenia operates in the spirit of good relations, between the state and the churches and religious communities, establishing a permanent dialogue and providing legal frameworks in which the functioning of churches and religious communities will take place as freely as possible in the religious, ethical, cultural, educational and social spheres and for the benefit of all citizens of Slovenia. We believe that the area of religion is extremely important for the lives of individuals and for mutual understanding, which makes it necessary to give appropriate attention to interfaith dialogue. The new Slovenia will not support the novels of the Law on Religious Freedom. We believe that this is a proposal by which the opposition seeks to shift attention in these complex situations to ideological themes. After a long past, which we cannot be proud of, the Religious Freedom Act, adopted in 2007, introduced a modern regime of relations between the State and religious communities. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia did not order the repeal of the law. In Nova Slovenija, we believe that the proposal for a law tabled by the opposition is extremely undemocratic, outdated and contrary to modern solutions to the state's relations with religious communities. Such a proposal is underestimating and does not reflect the true attitude of freedom of religion, which is a constitutional category in Slovenia. Members and Members of the younger generation are unburdened, and we are surprised that some people constantly put ideological themes on the agenda and want to spread or promote cultural warfare. I want to know what their interest is when the lack of arguments starts an ideological fight. Of course, we are in New Slovenia to respect the decision of the Constitutional Court and to amend the law in force in accordance with the decision, but the applicants want to cross the Constitutional Court and introduce completely new solutions that are not acceptable to New Slovenia. For this reason, we will not support the proposed law in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u33	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia shall have the word of Mrs Tamara Vont.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. I believe that the Constitutional Court is not an ideological story, and the decisions of the Constitutional Court are not ideological stories, or so. In Positive Slovenia we support the amendment of the Law on Religious Freedom, which is not a document on witch hunting, but is a document that eliminates constitutional inconsistencies. If we go in order. The Constitutional Court’s decision explicitly requires the legislator to regulate the constitutionally compatible criteria for the registration of religious communities. The legislator must prescribe a minimum membership, which is subject to a strict proportionality test. The answer in the novel of the Law on Religious Freedom: "The Church or other religious community may be registered if it has at least 10 full-year members who are nationals of the Republic of Slovenia or foreigners who have registered permanent residence in our country." In Positive Slovenia, we stand for the principle that the right to unify on the basis of religious freedom is human rights, as we have heard several times. The low-level criteria for the exercise of this right resulting from the proposal for a bill of law are without prejudice to this right. For the time being, the applicable conditions for registration of a religious community are that they are too harsh, discriminatory and narrow the human right to freedom of action of religious communities. In line with binding international instruments, to list them, the General Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, finally regulates the registration of various atheistic, agnostic, humanistic and other communities operating in the field of freedom of conscience. This also respects the decision of the Constitutional Court. The following point, I quote from the Constitutional Court's decision: "The financing of religious communities from public funds does not fall within the scope of human rights, religious freedom, but this is permissible if the criteria do not violate the principle of separation and do not constitute an assessment of faith or belief and taking into account the equality of religious communities and the neutrality of the State." In financing generally beneficial activities, the State must treat all types of associations equally: religious, world-viewed visual and other, although State funding for religious spiritual care in prisons and hospitals does not fall within the framework of human rights, the State may provide the necessary financial resources to religious communities in a manner that is not in conformity with the principle of separation of countries and religious communities. In the explanation of the Constitutional Court, I quote: "The duty to guarantee and protect freedom of religion does not mean that any state measure that touches on religious issues already constitutes an unacceptable intervention in freedom of religion." According to the Constitutional Court, the exercise of the specific rights of believers in institutions such as the military, police, prisons, nursing homes and hospitals is regulated in a way that does not guarantee equality between believing different religions, as well as between infidels and believers. The State employment of priests for the exercise of religious spiritual care is prohibited under the Constitution for the purpose of separation as enshrined in the Constitution, that is, because of the identification of the State and the faith or religious communities at the symbolic level. Of course, it is right, and we support that, exceptionally, if it comes to the fulfilment of human rights, such as military missions abroad, the State provides the citizens with spiritual and religious care. No one is talking about not doing this anymore and suggesting that the country does not allow it. That's a lie. The answer to what I read from the Constitutional Court ruling is also found in the New Testament on Religious Freedom. The new law adequately addresses the area of financing of religious communities from public funds. Funding, as has been said several times, is permissible, but limited to the activity of the social state on the basis of public calls, provided that the criteria do not violate the principle of separation and do not constitute an assessment of religion or belief, and taking into account the equality of religious communities and the neutrality of the State. It also establishes or introduces a new method of financing, which provides that religious activities are financed exclusively by the churches and other religious communities from public funds from the funds provided for in the part of the income for the grant. In those public institutions where members of the religious community are hampered by the exercise of the right to religious freedom, the State is responsible for the financing and is in charge of the State. I repeat, military missions abroad are one such case. In Positive Slovenia, we believe that the amendment of the law is a step forward, as it creates a more balanced position for all religious communities and expands the field of religious freedom, and in particular follows consistently the decision of the Constitutional Court, which has found constitutional inconsistencies in the existing law and imposed their abolition, and this is essential. At the end of the day. The state must not do so, the state must not do so, the state is bound to separate and, on the other hand, the Law on Religious Freedom does not tell what churches must not do. As a true doctor, Mr Pecarič said," but we can find out that the Church should not interfere with the organisation and functioning of the state, in order to commit it to respect the principle of laity, that it should not be raised on political issues, that it must be neutral with political issues." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u35	Thank you. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mrs Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u36	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Secretary of State, honourable Members, honourable Members! We therefore have before us in the general debate the amendment to the Religious Freedom Act, which was tabled in the parliamentary procedure by the opposition parliamentary group together with the first-signed mag. Majdo Potrat. But to return first about six years ago, when we had a very hot and intense debate on the issue of religious freedom. In 2006, after 30 years, we changed and finally adopted the Religious Freedom Act because the then coalition finally wanted to achieve a European comparable law based on human rights, including the right to religious freedom, established on the tolerance and mutual understanding of people to different beliefs. The law, which is now in force and has been fixed for the first time after 30 years, has abolished the legal void and has finally settled and secured religious freedom through the Constitution. With the 2006 Religious Freedom Act, we have regulated both the registration and funding of religious communities. And there's no need to explain the following. At that time, the Rop government planned to raise budget support for the social security of priests to 100%, while now the law in force has reduced it to 60%. Even though there has been a partial payment of social contributions in Slovenia for decades, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has never said that this would be contrary to the Constitution in any way, but today the amendment of the law also abolishes this. In 2006, the Law on Religious Freedom also defined the relationship of officers of priests in the police and military and on missions, as confirmed by the Constitutional Court as an arrangement which in no way violates the constitutional principle of the separation of the church from the State. The current law that the opposition wishes to amend to the nose does not appear to be in force, although there is no valid reason or argument for this, yet the argument that the Constitutional Court should follow the decision does not hold, since only the Constitutional Court later annulled this non-compliance in certain articles, gives equal conditions or grounds to all religious communities, meaning that no one is privileged or discriminated against or took nothing. The 2006 Law agrees with religious communities and there is no reason not to be members of it. The representatives of the Catholic, Evangelical, Serbian Orthodox and Islamic communities recently stressed the following: "The existing law is fully consistent with the Constitution and appropriate, and changes to existing and already achieved standards of human rights protection would significantly reduce", the end of the quote. They continued, quote: "Ideologically burdened policy seeks to amend the law on religious freedom in terms of lowering European recognised standards, religious freedom and beyond the will of those who are law-abiding." End of quote. I can also say calmly, given the appropriateness of the moment when you put this amendment of the law into the parliamentary procedure, that in the opposition, by putting such proposals into Parliament, you are actually forcing us to talk about ideological issues to open ideological issues, even though we have committed ourselves within the coalition not to open ideological issues. So much for teaching when it's said that the coalition is the one that opens up ideological themes. You are opening them up at a time which, in my opinion, is not the most appropriate when the country has a lot of other important problems, how it will solve finances, how it will solve such a weak economy, and sometimes a completely broken economy, how it will ensure social rights for those who, due to greedyly owned businesses, have stayed on the road overnight, without work and without income. Let's just look at the last case of the Primorje. Why, in fact, you are doing this in the opposition, but you probably know now, because the whole country knows this too, that the situation is difficult and that it is necessary to direct all forces to get away with this situation — including with your help. However, not in the way it now shows, because you have been opening up ideological themes in the midst of the biggest, worst problems for decades, either because of the unresolved past or because of the ongoing planned and consistent indoctrination of the Slovenian nation. And that's why there's not too much of a question here. Whom does the current law on religious freedom disturb? Whom does the marriage really touch? Political parties, or the ones they're looking for? You will probably be best able to answer this question by those who today want legislation related to the question of religious freedom, so rigorous and absolutely nothing in the spirit of time and democratic standards, even though in most cases it does not try to change you in any way. On the contrary, those affected by religious law are the true religious community, you are exempt from the discussion and you want to make a self-initiative change to something that the affected disagree with, and even more so, they are even satisfied with the law now in force. This is about as if the Public Finance Balance Act, which we have recently adopted, has been prepared and passed by representative unions. Where it can go, we've seen the case of the pension law. When the law in force was now in force, the real law of 2006, the dialogue was taken into account, the diversity of opinions was taken into account and, above all, an attempt was made to make such a law that would respect all religious communities, of course, by consistently respecting the principle of separation of the church from the state. Unfortunately, today we are witnessing a completely different practice in the National Assembly. We are witnessing the ignoring of religious communities and consequently citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia of all religions. The question of religious freedom and the definition of an individual to religious belief is the right of an individual and his personal decision. Being a believer or belonging to a religious community is an inseparable right, which no one should interfere with, of course, under clear restrictions that the church is separate from the State. Just as no one should interfere with the right to atheistic views and views that shape a human being and are devoted to them. In our case, however, it is quite the opposite of most European countries, where they respect the religiously defined, that how religious communities should work, or with us, I will be more specific, for example, the Catholic Church, because the largest thorn in the heel, is the one that is most pronounced by those who, once again, will say, the Catholic Church and other religious communities have nothing, except that they are hostile to them, at least to the Catholic Church. Years ago, in a similar discussion, I said that you have an implanted anti-theme gene on your left, and I must say that given the dynamics of working in the National Assembly, and given what we are dealing with today, I can only reassert it. However, no one is here to defend traditional religious communities in any way, but at least some of their catastrophic errors, such as the still fresh example of capital defaults in the Maribor archdiocese, which, due to poor asset management, has become liquidity problems and has disappointed many people because they have entrusted their assets to management. Therefore, companies associated with the archdiocese must take full responsibility for the situation under the current legislation. As is the case with all other poor asset managers. In short, we are not defending anyone, but we want the definition of the right to religious freedom in law to be expressed as a constitutionally guaranteed right to positive status. Not as proposed in the amendment of the law, however, when the applicants want to push all religious communities to the brink of social life, thus restricting the exercise of the right of expression or the exercise of religion to members of religious communities. However, the liquidity problems faced by the individual religious community cannot be taken as an argument that could limit religious freedom and in such a rigorous manner as you have imposed in the opposition, we have interfered with the conceptual regulation of the Law on Religious Freedom. With such interventions that we are witnessing to them today, you have, I can say calmly, surpassed even Mr Gulic, former Member and Director of the Office of Religious Communities in his draft law on religious freedom. Those who were Members of the previous term certainly know what I am talking about. However, at least I am sure that Mr Gulič did not do this because of some kind of organic intolerance. The proposal for a new law that we have before us with its solutions can lead to unconstitutionality, as it opposes the views of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which in its decisions has set clear guidelines and definitions in terms of the separation of religious communities from the State, only needs to be read precisely. Let us see what solutions are offered by the novelty of the Law on Religious Freedom. The law's proponents manipulate the need to amend and supplement the law as a result of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, but this is not an excuse and is only an excuse to intervene radically in the organisation of religious communities. By a decision of 15 April 2010, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia found that the current Law on Religious Freedom of 2006 was unconstitutional in two parts relating to the registration of religious communities and to the employment of priests in public administration, and later the articles in question were annulled or more precisely; the opinion that the Constitutional Decision imposed something on the legislator was wrong. The Constitutional Decision did not impose anything on the legislator, but the Constitutional Court, by repealing certain legal provisions, had found that there was no constitutional non-compliance with the Constitution. By repealing certain provisions of the Religious Freedom Act, the Constitutional Court laid down precisely the new content of the Religious Freedom Act and explained the purpose of delaying the effect of this repeal. One of the purposes is to give the legislator the opportunity to arrange otherwise for the legal substance which has been defined by the repealed provisions. This simply means that it gave the legislator an opportunity, but it did not oblige the legislator to adopt a law that would regulate this substance in any other way. This argument, therefore, that you now wish to amend the Law on Religious Freedom because of non-conformity with the Constitution, does not hold back. It is simply that, under the pretext of the opinion of the Constitutional Court, you want, as has been the case with many times, to go rigorously into the Religious Freedom Act and reopen an ideological debate with it. The proposed amendment to the law introduces three key changes related to the conditions for the registration of religious communities, the financing of religious communities and the employment of priests in public administration. If I lean only on the last two, we can see in employment that the Constitutional Court has not found unconstitutionality in hiring religious officials in the police and military because of the specificities of the two professions themselves. In the previous term, Mrs Ljubica Jelusic, the then Minister for Defence, who, among other things, I think that at the committee in the National Assembly, said that, with such solutions, which we also have today on the table, we would have returned about ten years ago or at least ten years ago. However, the Constitutional Court has also found that it has abolished the unconstitutional employment of religious officials in other public institutions. To simplify: the Constitutional Court has not annulled the possibility of payment to religious officials, as envisaged by the amendment of the law, which, by the way, even abolishes the payment of social contributions to these individuals, but has only made clear the possibility of hiring religious workers in public institutions. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we intend to respect consistently the opinion of the Constitutional Court as the highest body in the protection of human rights, including the right to religious freedom. In terms of funding, the proposed law introduces financing for religious communities through a share of income that would be earmarked by a believer up to 0.5% of the income according to his own assessment by the religious community. However, they abolish any funding from other public funds, where their contributions are also paid by members of this or that religious community and have a legitimate interest that, although the State allows them to practice religious freedom as their social activities within religious communities, by a minimum share of public funds. Any taxable person may already make up to 0,5 % of the income available to the general benefit. If the financing of religious communities were limited to only 0.5% of the income, this could mean that, as a result, income subsidies would be reduced to those humanitarian and charitable organisations to which the income-generating undertakings now have fully allocated 0.5% of the income. Under this law, however, a total of 0.5% or part of the income will be imposed on religious communities to exercise their right of religion in order to enable them to carry out their religious activities without hindrance. Such a solution could, therefore, be, not to say for sure, but could represent a saving of budgetary resources, especially at the expense of charities and other generally beneficial organisations, which are now financed from 0.5% of the income, following the independent assessment of the taxpayer. The new law also introduces an interesting solution that deletes the legal basis for concluding agreements between the State and the home religious communities. This provision is not in the spirit of the Vienna Convention on International Treaties in the first place. The Holy Headquarters, for example, as an internationally recognised entity, can conclude agreements and it is irresponsible that the legal basis for concluding international agreements should be deleted, even if we know that the Vatican was one of the first to recognise the State of Slovenia as independent and independent. The New Law on Religious Freedom, which we are considering today, was obviously introduced into the parliamentary procedure only out of ideological motives, and certainly not out of concern for religious communities, which are defined by law as generally useful organisations that advocate spirituality and human dignity in private and public life. By developing their cultural, educational, educational, solidarity, charitable and other activities in the field of social state, they enrich their national identity and thus carry out an important social task. Like the task of religious communities to follow their teachings and values, it is the policy of seeking social consensus and trying to work on such ideological issues for the common good. Not that it purposely separates people exclusively for the cheap collection of political points. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will vote against the law being suitable for further consideration. So that means we won't support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u37	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is now a general debate between Members and Members. But first, I give the word "magic." Majdi Potrat as a representative of the proposers.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. It is impossible to imagine that in Slovenia it can be changed in the way you treat when you are striving on behalf of a minority to exercise human rights, and most feel that you are undemocratic, political and that you can hear such signs, conduct. Those of us who signed under the proposal for a new law on religious freedom were based on the general conviction and the repeated position of all parties who participated in the early elections, that Slovenia was a state of law and that all citizens, citizens and residents should be given equal treatment through the Constitution. It is also a fact that different views may obscure the essence of the matter a little bit, and if it is a pleasure that the current coalition was given the adoption of the Religious Freedom Act within the 2004-2008 mandate, it should be recalled that discussions were similar to those of today when they were fired across different shores. It must be said, however, that at the time of the opposition’s obstruction, the then coalition majority voted in favour of the law, that a veto had been vetoed in the State Council, and that the State Council had sent individual articles of law to the Constitutional Court for review. Thus, the Constitutional Court did not speak of the constitutionality or non-constitutionality of the law as a whole, but of the individual provisions. The evidence that there was no consultation or dialogue with religious communities is that we have broken the established practice. It has been forgotten that the smaller religious communities, under the Religious Freedom Act, have not had the opportunity to exercise their views and have been treated equally, so the Constitutional Court has also repealed Article 13(1) and read it to you as this first paragraph reads: "The Church or other religious community may be registered if it has at least 100 full-year members who are nationals of the Republic of Slovenia or foreigners who have a registered permanent residence in its territory and who operate in the Republic of Slovenia for at least the last 10 years." If what could have happened in the opinion of the groups of Members could have been heard that the matter had been regulated by the repeal of this paragraph, then I do not know how this article could have been continued, since the following is only about what the registration requirement should contain and what must be paid when the registration requirement is made — administrative fee and similar matters. If you don't have the criteria on when a community can register, I don't know how this is going to work. So much for someone manipulating or abusing a Constitutional Court decision. This could be done through other provisions which have been repealed by the Constitutional Court. The discussion was about how a good public debate had been held and there was no such public debate. On the government’s websites, the Office for Religious Communities, which was abolished by this coalition, or firstly, as a first act of state, dismissed the Director of the Office – so much about who started these topics in the country in crisis situations – that is, they transferred the Office of Religious Communities to the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport. But on the website you will get information on the public debate and see that there was a public debate on 24 November, it took place in four parts, it ended with a public statement, a summary of the public debate on the starting points, the polls, the preparation points, the public call and other data was published. So much for that. In my opening remarks, I said that we had taken stock of what the Office for Religious Communities had prepared. So if you want to exclude the recent Director of the Office of Religious Communities from the origin of this proposal, it is impossible. I would like to point out once again: that proposal was in the previous mandate and this proposal before you is a proposal prepared by the Office of the Religious Communities in a dialogue with the professional and interested public, and as it has been said, I have already stated. So much for that. It has now been heard in the Government's opinion that we do not have a concept of separation between the state and the church. You see, constitutional lawyers just think that the 7th Article, which speaks of the separation of the state and the church or religious communities, has set a sharp limit and that all the countries in the European Union do not have such a strong set. The reading of Article 41 of the Constitution can also be completed at the place where this reading was completed, Mr State Secretary, but if we read fully what is written in Article 41 when it comes to freedom of conscience, this is the first paragraph,'revelation of faith and other definitions'. And this was discussed by the Constitutional Court's decision, when it allowed other humanistic, agnostic, even atheistic thinkers to be subject to this, because they also need to be guaranteed freedom of conscience and freedom of expression on the one hand, if they are subject to the same principles of registration as churches and religious communities, then the rule on what they cannot and cannot enter into is also applicable to them. As the Constitutional Court has already stated in several decisions, the most frequently in the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education, when, how and by what means the Church and the religious community are not allowed to enter public space, the same is true if we include other world-level communities, including these registered world-view communities, so that they do not enter public school with their beliefs, actions, views. So much for understanding those who think that the candidates have some kind of hatred. It is hard to deny that someone lives out of hatred for different and different. I myself do not live from this belief, and in particular stress that I should be very masochistic if I try to defend the proposal of a law that eliminates unconstitutionality from some political impulse. So much for that. Of course, others will be able to explain other things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u39	Mr Jakob Preseknik, who is not in the Chamber, was first reported to the debate. That is why Mr Jožef Horvat has the word, followed by Roman Jakič. Mr. Roman Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State, Mr Zorn! After a thorough examination of the proposal for a law on religious freedom, I decided not to support the law. However, I would like to recall, and I would like to be exact in my own statements, and it has just been signed that the coalition has passed a law in the wake of the opposition's obstruction. Of course, there have been more votes and it is necessary to be very clear when this obstruction occurred. By the way, I have a copy of the vote on 24. 5. At 8 p.m. in 2006, 33 minutes and 4 seconds when I see the opposition present. For example: colleague Majda Potrat – vr, colleague of Potrč Miran – vr, colleague of Rop Anton – za, Gulič Aleš – vr, Jožef Horvat – za. Yeah, I wasn't wrong, Rob Anton – for! Look, I will come out of a coalition contract signed or signed by Nova Slovenije, and for me, the personal signature of the contract means the commitment to act in the spirit of the contract, to act on the principle enshrined in the coalition contract. Allow me to read just one piece of this contract: "...the coalition is aware that for a positive atmosphere and lasting progress in society, the willingness of citizens and politicians to overcome old divisions is very important. Therefore, the coalition will put at the forefront all that unites and unites us in Slovenia and advocates cooperation on the basis of its willingness to work for the common good. The coalition partner in the work of the National Assembly and Government will not open questions about the interpretation of past history" – this means developments in and after World War II – "and we will stick to the principle that policy should only speak about these issues when it is able to unify." Also, the Law on Religious Freedom is an extremely sensitive content that actually touches our religious feelings and, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is for me at this point in time when Slovenia is still falling, when we have extremely severe social difficulties in our society, that is, in my opinion, the principle of 'uniting', which is not just a word, is the principle of 'collecting' the principle of our action, policy and all actors who can help us out of this crisis. If we don't work together, we're going to fail together. I believe that Slovenia – in fact, we are celebrating only 20 years of age this year, since the international community has recognised us – that it can be said that it is a young democratic country. If we are talking about recognition, I must repeat what has already been said today: between the first countries, on 13 January 1992, we were recognised by the Holy Headquarters and then, in fact, launched a plaza of the recognitions of the Republic of Slovenia. The first were Germany and the other members of the European Union at the time. So I asked myself why this is the moment when – I repeat – Slovenia is still falling; why is it necessary to open up questions about religious freedom? And, dear proponents, I must tell you that you fell here in the 1st grade of democracy because you didn't talk and talk and agree with the religious communities. It means those who are actually concerned with this law. One of the fundamental requirements of the democratic political system is respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the creation of a guarantee for their realization. Among these rights, the right to freedom of conscience and religious freedom express current ideological pluralism in society and lay the foundations for mutual tolerance and understanding among people of different beliefs. It is recorded in some of the most important international instruments, such as the General Declaration of Human Rights, which was adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 10 December 1948, and we became a member on 22 May 1992. And of course others, for example, the European Convention on Human Rights and so on. Article 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia sets out the principle of separation between the State and the religious communities, the principle of equality of religious communities and the principle of their free operation, freedom of action, as set out in Article 7. I am convinced that the proposal of Members means an undemocratic intervention in the law governing the exercise of religious freedom as one of the fundamental human rights. In doing so, the amendments should be actively consulted with the Churches and other religious communities in that part of civil society affected or sought by these changes and should also be taken into account as they have played an important role in the drafting of the current law on religious freedom. Ideologically burdened policy seeks to amend the law on religious freedom in terms of lowering European recognised standards of religious freedom and beyond the will of those affected by the law. With the law, which has been mentioned several times today, in 2006 and then by re-voting 2007, we have actually reached comparable European standards in the case of religious freedom. And if we are talking about Europeanism, I think that we are not aware of all this Europeanism, even though we have been a member of this extremely important community for over 8 years now, but I am underlining again: together and together, we will be able to resolve these problems. Let me have two, three sentences on the faith of the fathers of the European connection. Shortly after the end of the bloody war, which has deeply separated the nations, the statesmen Robert Schuman, Alcide de Gasperi and Konrad Adenauer, who are included among others in the fathers of today's Europe, laid the foundations for a bold political plan and rejoined European nations in peace and economic and political cooperation. One key event in European integration was the Treaty of Rome, which on 25 March 1957 defined the essence of European integration policy for the last 50 years. These statesmen have drawn inspiration for gathering together in deep faith and the desire to realize the Christian brotherhood among the nations. This is how we read in the biography of the fathers of the nations. Colleagues and colleagues, I remember well when we took over the euro's common currency on 1 January 2007. At that time, the Slovenian finance minister said very importantly that it is the credit of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, of all Slovenian people, that we have achieved this success. Slovenia has thus completed its long journey home by taking over the common European currency. Home to Europe. I am confident and I hope that this awareness will come at all times of our lives and of all citizens and citizens that we are a member of the European Union and that we are members of this European culture. Instead of concluding: there is an interesting correlation between those who do not agree with the European Parliament Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism and those who sympathize with today's proposal to amend the Law on Religious Freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u41	The text shall be by the proposer of the Magi. Majda Potrat, now the replica, then the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. It is true, Mr Horvath, that we need to know what information we are quoting. And I cited the third reading of the Religious Freedom Act, 19. 12. 2006 and re-voting on the laws of the Council of State 2. 2. 2007 Number of visitors, quorum 47 – first time, quorum second time 47. I'm not going to read to those of us who weren't in the hall because we obstructed it. However, you may have forgotten that we have considered another law on religious freedom in that mandate and then voted whether the law is suitable for further consideration or not. Mr Horvath, you have said many things, but it is in the crisis that the protection of human rights is of paramount importance, because, in the name of crisis and crisis resolution, they can beat you most drasticly and ruthlessly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Now he's got the word "magic." Majda Potter as a proponent. You don't want to. Ah, the president of the National Assembly informed me that as a proponent. Okay, I'm sorry. We're moving on. Instead of mags. Melite Župevc has the floor, Mr Roman Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u44	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Hand is today trying to take us to thin ice and create an impression in public that we are opening up ideological themes. That's not true. We are here today because of a proposal to amend the law following the Constitutional Court, which states that the financing of religious communities from public funds does not fall within the scope of human rights and religious freedom; that the State employment of priests for the exercise of religious spiritual care is prohibited by violation of the principle of separation as set out in Article 7 of the Constitution, this is due to the identification of the State and religion or religious communities at a symbolic level. Let me draw attention to the fact that this story is not new, but has been going on ever since the State Council issued a request for a constitutional review in 2007, when the law violated the equality of all religious communities, societies and individuals and the principle of the separation of state and church. The Constitutional Court is 2. 6. 2010 repealed the provisions of the Law on Religious Freedom, which provide for the provision of spiritual care in prisons and hospitals, discuss the employment of priests and the conditions for the registration of religious communities. The judges considered that such an intensive way of supporting the functioning of the State in facilitating spiritual care in prisons and hospitals exceeded the limits established by the constitutional principle of separation between the State and the religious community. But despite all that, because today there is so much rumposome about what we are doing today, let me remind you what the position of churches in the Republic of Slovenia has, especially the largest church, which is also the loudest in changing this law. Look, the direct privileges, the state funding of the Roman Catholic Church, are paying the priests who are employed in the military and the police. This was adopted by a regulation which states that the bishops are paid income in the amount of, for the bishops, in the amount of the minimum wage in accordance with the law, for parishioners who are responsible for more than 5,000 believers after the letter of the religious community, and for priests who are responsible for more than 5,000 believers in the amount equal to 65% of the minimum wage, and for religious workers who are not listed in previous points in the amount equal to the basic amount of the minimum income published by the Minister for Social Protection once a year. In addition, we pay part of our contributions to pension and health insurance and to the social security of religious workers, for which we paid 2.4 million euros in 2011 as a country. In addition, of course, we also pay for direct financing of the projects of the church institutions. From 1998 to 2008, they received a total of 17 million 613 thousand euros, of which, just to be clear, the Evangelical and Orthodox Church, but I know that the Muslim Community has received 194 thousand euros. That's 17 million and a half. The Roman Catholic Church. Indirectly there are tax reliefs, exclusion from the payment of cadastral income, but the obligation to pay fees for maintenance of forest roads – as you know, the denationalisation of the Church has resulted in 10,000 hectares of agricultural land and 18,000 hectares of forests. Then the facilities used for religious activity are exempt from payment of compensation for the use of building land. It is 116 thousand square metres of residential area and 1.2 million building plots. Then the state finances church schools. Why not say that in 2011 the country earmarked €8.6 million for private church schools? The state has no control over voluntary contributions, so-called collections, and the marketing of religious services such as masses, funerals, weddings. So here too is a grey economy that is not saved. I hope that the government will reach out to this area as well. Religious communities are not liable to pay property taxes. Religious communities are not liable to pay inheritance taxes and gifts. Now – I was talking about what the state is financing. But today Mrs Irgle's concern was expressed when she spoke about those in this country – she mentioned Primorje and the workers. Yeah, what about more than 30,000 people who were injured by Bell 1 and Bell 2? When these two companies were in the best condition when they were in the best condition, they had almost EUR 300 million ownership shares in Slovenian companies. The profits planned in these companies amounted to around EUR 10 million in those days. That Zvon 1 was in chemistry, telecommunications – by the way, very unhygienic, I always felt that the Church owned a pornographic channel – financial intermediation, medical tourism, papermaking, etc. Bell 2 had capital investments of €83 million. The mutual funds of the Skala had €60 million of capital. By the way, there was also, of course, Zvon BV, which was registered, interesting, in the Netherlands, and no one bothered – here you have repeatedly troubled Slovenian companies, private companies registered in the Netherlands – and there they had a share or sum of almost EUR 172 million. Today you talk as if we are now on the left devouring those social contributions because this poor church and religious community have no money to finance! There's billions in here! You know the calculated value of church property is close to half a second billion euros! State funding for religious communities is therefore the duty of the State, in fact, only in exceptional circumstances, when it is the duty of the State to ensure that religious freedom can be realized, and these are military missions. By the way, you know that the head of the military vicariate is equal to that of the Brigadier and that the monthly salary is about EUR 5,000 gross. Let me conclude by saying that with the amendment of the law before us, this law will no longer directly finance social security for religious workers, which I think is right. The new funding model will preserve all current sources of funding and continue to respect the criteria of numericality, which means that larger communities will continue to be more funded, but at the same time more transparency and social justice should be taken care of; I stress - social justice in this country! It is interesting that you forget about this social justice, and it is interesting that I miss this issue when you refer to human rights, that you rely on human rights to also address other issues. And this is what those who have accepted the story around the deleted are calling for me not to open up other topics and those black dots hanging from the 2004-2008 mandate in this country. The new law also foresees, by the way, a three-year transitional period, which means that in these three years the religious communities will not be allowed to do anything or feel a loss of income, but will be able to prepare for it. And that's right. Those who say that there is no tendency in Europe to go in the direction that religious communities are paid by taxpayers, those who want to pay the religious community — that is not true! Why isn't it true? Because they're afraid. Religious communities in the Republic of Slovenia, especially the Roman Catholic Church, fear that if they introduce that they can voluntarily contribute from their income, 0.5%, I leave for the fact that I want to help the Roman Catholic Church, I have the feeling that they would not get 83% of the money from the citizens; that is to say as much as the census has stated for the members of the Roman Catholic Church. And that's what they're afraid of! That people won't trust them with money! And I wouldn't trust it, either, if I were a believer, a Roman Catholic Church money, if it had cheated more than 30,000 people, it would have done damage for 700 million to one billion, which we will pay, because it is the money of the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Credit Bank. You've been talking all night about how we're going to privatize the New Ljubljana Bank. Yes, of course, he's a swastika! Who made her like that?Oh, my God! Bell 1 and Bell 2! The archdiocese! Because all those claims that are other claims that you're telling us about and you keep throwing them away, they have a guarantee. What do we have here for a guarantee?Oh, my God! The fact that we have Betnavo, our cultural heritage – and you should be careful in the ministry – is the cultural heritage that we had to return to the Church under the law on denationalisation and is now in the hands of the Austrians. By the way, Joseph Školč is in the process of holding back this property and is in criminal proceedings as a competent public official, whether he was a minister or a secretary of state, but, according to you, he was delaying the return of this property to the Church, which was now in the hands of the Austrians. Our cultural heritage! In general, with this arrangement, we will consistently respect the principle of separation between the church and the state, which I and all of us here advocate will relieve the budget which is in short supply and if I can quote at the end of the Slovenian Metropolitan Dr. Stress, which says that "the Church will also be in solidarity with the whole society during the crisis". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u45	Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor instead of Mr Janko Vebra. Please prepare Janja Klasinc instead of Mrs Tina Komel.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u46	Your Honor! On one occasion, I was able to protest when we were confronted with ideological themes and why we are opening this subject today when the country is in crisis. Also because this government does not need a parliament. We have only a fourth session of the National Assembly, and we would have finished after two days like we did before. So we have time to solve these problems. There are also instances of hatred against religious communities and so on. On our side, one word was not in this direction. I was the mayor, and I must tell you that as mayor, in some cases, I also asked the priests to help solve environmental complications because they have a reputation in the environment. And we cooperated and there was no problem. In the group of Social Democrats, in our membership, we have faithful members, we have faithful members in the leadership of our party. So to tell us something stupid — I can't accept it under any circumstances! Just so someone doesn't talk about any headwashing. Look, breaking the Constitution is our obligation. We have a warning from the Constitutional Court. Of course, the aim is also to ensure the transparency of the functioning of religious communities, including equality, and to tell taxpayers what my predecessor has now mentioned as how he has dealt with these things. These are the millions that roll somewhere, and they're taxpayers' money. I forgot to mention Bled Island and so on. This list is extremely long. The representative of the Government, speaking of the proposed law, says that this proposal seeks to prevent the autonomy of the functioning of religious communities. In what article, I ask? That he wanted to eliminate religious activity from public life. In what way? To talk about discrimination against religious communities. Guys, honey, that's not true! I warn you, confession of faith and action is free under the Constitution, in accordance with Article 41, and we do not interfere in this in any case. We have good relations with religious communities, we need religious communities. See, acting on the educational, educational, charitative field is useful for citizens and must be and we appreciate this. However, that some things need to be harmonised in accordance with the Constitutional Court's request and the separation of the church from the state and the arrangements for funding is very clear. Look at the examples in Austria, it's a European state, and in some others, not to mention, these things have been arranged a long time ago. And that's our interest, and there's no way that we're opening up ideological topics that we don't open. The treaties and long-term speeches of some today have opened up these topics, which, of course, I will always insist that they are not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u47	Mrs Janja Klasinc has the floor to prepare, please, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u48	Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are talking about a question that is always very delicate when it comes to the legislation of certain religious communities or even belief in society. Like my predecessors, I would like to point out that there is no way that I can agree to the assessment that this is an ideological debate and that it is some kind of hatred of religion. See, if funding, regulation of transparent financing of religious communities and the equality of these communities in individual societies, let this be an ideological issue anywhere in the world and of course for us in Slovenia, then with our understanding something is not right. Why can we put a religious community in our country in such an unequal position in terms of priority over others, if we know that, by our constitution and by all international rules in the European Union, this is not the case? Look, you could be unfair and you could say, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, you've also dealt ideologically with, say, fighters who will now, after this super law that we've adopted here in two nights, have lower pensions. Or the fighter NOB? And I didn't say that, even though you did, I'm telling you, I think a little bit. No! No! Here, the Catholic Church, which is the church of most believers in Slovenia, will not have a worse position if this law provides that any believer can make a voluntary contribution and devote these funds from this income work, I do not think there is a problem here. Let us leave as many of these believers as possible, but the estimates show that from about half to two thirds of the Slovenian population is spoken of as Catholics. If we exclude accurate data, I do not want to cite them because they can be misleading because the last census on this subject was carried out in 2002. I would like to draw attention to some irregularities that my colleague, Jakič, has already pointed out before me, but I would like to read more precisely. I usually prefer to talk free, but I don't want to make any mistakes because I've written down some information that's actually going on. According to our data, the country is today paying religious officials about 5 times as much as the rules in force. Why? I don't think it's because of the planning, but simply because of the impossibility, because it's paid once here, the second time there. See, in the Slovenian Army, for example, the state employs 14 religious employees for a permanent and one religious employee under contract. These are the servants of the Catholic and Evangelical Church, namely, the 1st and 4th religious communities. I am concerned because I am sure that in the Slovenian Army we have a huge – well, huge – but quite a number of believers in the Orthodox and Islamic communities. Why don't they have their own representatives there? In August 2011, the gross labour costs of the military vicariate amounted to just over EUR 28 000 and the head of the vicariat receives, as already mentioned by counterpart Jakič; the salary, which is EUR 4000 130 gross. However, the Regulation on the payment of religious servants provides that the highest payment may be made to a religious official, and this is the bishop, in the amount of the minimum wage in the Republic of Slovenia. Do you see that difference? Then we have another case. According to the amount similar to the number of hours paid, and all of them are paid by religious officials who are employed in our hospitals on the basis of business contracts. Multiple hospitals have contracts with these employees. Both University Clinical Centres, Ljubljana and Maribor, Psychiatric Hospital Vojnik, General Hospital Celje, Brežice General Hospital. See, all of these payments are significantly higher than those laid down in the regulations; the rules that the religious communities agreed with at the time. That's why I think we need to systematically regulate this area. I would also like to respond to two parts of the debate of my colleague from New Slovenia. She said, "Some people push their faith into a private sphere." Faith is a private sphere after all international legal acts. Of course it's a private sphere! If someone told me what religion I had to be, I would resist it with all my might. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? Well, colleague Jerovšek! Then it was said that we do not accept with this law, which is now proposed by the opposition, a modern law. Mrs. Dimičeva said, "We defend modern laws." Allow me to tire you for a few minutes and to read to you who stands up — as do we, the proponents of this law — for equal treatment of religious and non-religious opinion. This is imposed by binding international acts, including Article 9 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, Article 1 paragraph 10 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, the primary EU legislation, Article 17 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and secondary legislation, of course, also some of these sub-legislative acts in the European Union; the equal treatment of all religious communities is also based on the very specific rules and practices of certain countries in the EU. All countries are committed to this equal treatment, but you need to know – and of course Slovenia here too – that each country also regulates it on the basis of some tradition and its relations with these religious communities. They are most specific here in Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany. We take Germany several times as an example. We know how to finance German religious communities: from the voluntary contributions of our believers; and so it is. As a believer, I would like to spend money on my religious community so that it can work, but if it is committed by the state, then we are in violation of our constitution, which speaks of the separation of the church and the state, because otherwise I cannot imagine this separation. Therefore, my esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I have great respect for believers and faith, and I pray that no one who advocates the adoption of this law would really acknowledge that we are acting against faith and against believers. However, if the matter in some churches, not only in our Catholic Church in Slovenia, even in the Vatican, is not regulated elsewhere, it means that it is our duty to work as legislators to regulate them transparently at least in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u49	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor to prepare, please, Mr Happy Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u50	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In my debate, I would like to contribute to clarifying the dilemma of the adoption of this law and the dilemma, whether this is the moment, is it really the time for us to deal with this law? There is a desire to change the law on the nose, although there is no valid reason, and that today is not the time, Mrs Eva Irgle said in her address today. A number of debaters also cited opening up ideological themes at a time most inappropriate for this. I don't think it's about opening ideological themes and it's not about wanting to have the religious freedom law in place on the nose. In my view, it is more about introducing into the Law on Religious Freedom changes imposed by the Constitutional Court decision and measuring the rights and duties of all with equal vats in these difficult times. We prescribed the belt with the law of the citizen of the state of Slovenia. Should this only apply to citizens? Among them are the workers who have lost their jobs, there are the students, who were suspended in July for lunch, including families who live on the brink of survival, disabled persons, pensioners, low pensions and so on and could still be listed. Would it not be right for the Roman Catholic Church, as the largest real estate owner in our country, to share the fate of belt tightening? I therefore believe that all the revenues of the Roman Catholic Church from the budget should be reviewed, and the view adopted that the Roman Catholic Church, as the highest official in Slovenia, pays taxes on its property; that it pays compensation for the building land, except of course for the church buildings dedicated to worship; that the inheritance tax and gifts should also be imposed for the Roman Catholic Church; that is, to verify the eligibility for the amounts they receive for the payment of contributions to their servants, that is, the true priests, the monks. Now it amounts to 60% of the average wage per person. Then I'd point to the next one. I read days ago that the Roman Catholic Church demanded two million compensation from the country of Slovenia. You have just heard, two million, because because of the long - term process of denationalizing its assets, it was unable to use or use it in time. Dear Members and Members! Let us consider what is expected of us citizens who have elected us. Even those who believe deeply. Among them are many who live modestly, many on the brink of survival, many also in misery. To get out of the crisis and get back to normal as soon as possible, we all want to be believers and incredible in Slovenia. Therefore, I believe it is time for us to adopt a new Law on Religious Freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u51	The word has come from Mr Happy Meh. Let me prepare myself, please, Mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u52	Say good-bye again! We, honourable Members, don't even listen. Those of you who spoke then went out — not all of you, of course. Then here are the arguments – for I speak to all those who are not here and who have not done so. Everyone has the right to go to that need, as it's called, but I'm going to try to lead to that. The law was introduced legally and legitimately, with all the right that someone has, which the Member has, which is available to the person who may be qualified to do so. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we could talk about the law: what's wrong with the marriage, what else we could fix, what we could change. This would be expected, not to talk about ideological topics that the proposer did not mention at any stage. If the ideological theme is at the forefront of this law today, it was also in 2007 and 2006. And that's probably when we weren't laughing. We didn't make fun of each other. So it is to measure with the same vat when one of us or you, honourable Members and Members, speaks with all or all of the right that we have or have to express our views in a reasoned manner. The first to talk about ideological issues about this law was someone who was not of the kind of proposalr. But we could talk about what needs to be changed. That, ladies and gentlemen, we have something else to talk about today. About what? What, though, is involved in the procedure so that we can speak in the National Assembly? What is it that we can say, how do we do better? What do we have in the procedure? All procedures are urgent, fast, I don't know what kind of emergency procedure. That's why I'm saying it's dark here. Not least because of that. And one more thing, someone's talking about a coalition contract. Please respect her! Work on a coalition contract, not just say, "we wrote in a coalition contract..." when it suits you, when it doesn't suit you, but there is no coalition agreement. We accept, we must adopt a change to the law on religious freedom because it is right to respect the Constitutional Court because it is right to respect the rule of law. It cannot be said non-shallantly that the changes have already been made or need not be implemented. I find this irresponsible and too simple. Now here, where this topic of principles is, of course, talking about the situation we are in. See, if we all have to contribute to the resolution of the problems that we have and that the situation will be better, then let those who receive the most from the state budget also contribute, that is, of course, the Roman Catholic Church. Here's a letter I got from a citizen, from a citizen who says something like this. When I counted everything from the state budget that the Roman Catholic Church and its institutions are connected to it, I counted 107 million 872 thousand 215 euros. Ladies and gentlemen, 107 million! And I haven't even found everyone yet, and I haven't written it down. This is said to be a lot of this, or most of this tax money, also from the infidels, including atheists, including others. Then, does the Roman Catholic Church pay any tax on its activity, from other activities, from profits, from the companies it has? Does he pay taxes on income, real estate, insurance contributions? He writes to me, "Then, honourable Members, do something!"but, of course, the priests get paid social security. Therefore, the talk about this is a law, of course also a speech about helping the country out of this difficult economic and financial situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u53	I see that mag. Ivan Vogrin is not in the hall. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek has the floor. Get Mrs. Iva Dimic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Nice greetings, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, all present! I wonder what to do when, as a Member, you are forced to deal with a topic that is unproductive, at a time when we are discussing it, which trends are entirely ideological and political – which is legitimate, but bad for society and for the country in which it is located. I must say that only naive benefactors, even I have heard some of these here, can be sure that this topic, which triggers in the Slovenian area of division, has not been staged intentionally, planly, projectically and also with a precise teaming. For the historical experience of the parties, which take root with their political ancestors to a large extent in the former party, tells them that it is necessary to smoke when people and the country are in distress. That then the most hummus is for success from extreme projects, ideas, divisions and intolerance, so that intolerance among people can be embraced and enforced. Of course, we are at a difficult, turning point, which was carefully chosen to resupply this project, which already has some history, a few kilometers away, but to stir up ideological hatred and parasitic hatred on this subject of hatred against religious communities, to believing people, always comes to an end. It's a universal weapon in the hands of some. We have heard in the debate earlier today that it is literally in this country for failure or bankruptcy, we could say, but almost certainly for the multiple recapitalisation of the Ljubljana Bank, for which it is a clear culprit: the RCC. If so, then I wonder whether Mr Kramer, Mr Kordesh, Mr Pavček, Mr Crnigoj, February, perhaps the bishops in the shadow of this religious community. And see, such extreme conclusions are being reached here today in this debate. For this reason, we must reject saying earlier that the right hand or coalition, if so said, part of the coalition, wants to bring opposition to a thin ice ideological theme. The ideological theme was deliberately cast, designed. Also, the vocabulary, including all that is used as heavy ammunition, heavy weapons in this debate by the opposition, is carefully planned. Since you have forced us to participate in this debate, the debate cannot be avoided and is legitimate, as I say, then we have the right to use some associations. Today is a serious moment, as I have already mentioned, and there are possible twists or dangerous possible turns on all sides. There is not a moment that could be misused for ideological demagogism and social hatred, which has also been reflected in some debates. The worst, much worse-looking moment was at the start of World War II, when it was also used and abused to start these divisions, which have been constantly present in the Slovenian space since then. Communists are masters of human division, that's to be admitted. Yesterday, we read that at the time 800 people were killed in one year and that civil war was waged. Even now is a difficult time and it is irresponsible to start up any unpleasant business. Because at this point there was really no need to reach out to this issue, because we were witnesses in 2006, when the law that you are trying to replace was passed, to change, and also to bombastic estimates that the state church would be a state church, and I don't know what. And oh and oh, some of that quorum you're sitting here today, you started it the same way. However, the Constitutional Court was forced to determine; it found minor cases to be rectified. These trifling things, really petty things, and given what you can trigger, you've used and abused for a depraved product with the position of combat atheism, with all possible consequences. Look, since this was filed on May 18th, I am firmly convinced that it was also connected and timed with the Congress's first-signed MPs. We know that the current president has politically tactically restored some of Dr. Prunk's vocabulary as a Stalinist [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u55	Mr Jerovšek, I ask that you first and foremost define yourself or discuss yourself in connection with the law on religious freedom and do not just discuss yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u56	So, Madam President, I've listened to a lot of debaters and they've gone further than that, but these are some of the foundations on which this law came into being. Political basis, political interest, but it came from a political interest, of course. I don't know why they should stop me from figuring out these basics. It's connected, I'm sure it's connected. I think that Dr. Prunk is a large enough eminence in the Slovenian space to understand clearly that a Stalinist vocabulary is being restored and this intolerance to religious communities is a classic Stalinist institute. I must say that there can be other moves when people, individuals, in this production of intolerance, divide in the Slovenian space. I believe there are also some naive, benevolent naive people among the signatories to this law who I do not take for granted. But those main designers, of course, know what they threw into space and what they wanted to achieve. Sometimes hate can be a banal cause. For example, I know a lady who was on the other hand, for example, a relatively young woman was a religious terror, but she turned to total contradiction during her life. If I were here in Parliament, I'm sure I'd be among the signatories. But the reason was banal: she was conquering a young chaplain, but she wasn't heard and she changed. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm saying sometimes the causes can be banal and different. [[...]] As a result, respectable colleagues and colleagues and also those who propose, I think it would be appropriate for this law to be withdrawn. Firstly, those external circumstances have already occurred in the intended direction, personnel, in some parties. Secondly, that it will certainly have a bad effect at a time when the state is dealing with such severe problems, dealing with this matter, which you have seen as problematicly only some. However, I must also say that, as mentioned earlier, as if some religious community is the main culprit for the situation in our banks, article 20.b gives me an association, how accurately all of this was designed. There is nothing wrong with what it says, but why would the religious freedom law regulate things that are already being regulated in this country — that is, the conduct of companies and finance. And it says here that the church and the other religious community are, with all the property of their components, subsidiaryly responsible for the obligations of their work. These institutions, which have behaved disastrously, either ruled or managed their assets within the parish of Maribor, have acted under all laws or are subject to all laws. I hope that those responsible will be equally sanctioned. There's no need to tolerate this too, but the intensity is probably different. In Slovenia it spread, and even intensely, this indoctrination that the entire RDC had collaborated with the invader in World War II. That's it; they're all equally responsible. Not that I'm a lawyer, but a man who is literally sick from Styria, I think, even a man from Primorska, when such problems are systematically spreading. For according to my father's story, I know when he was imprisoned in the barracks of Melian in April, that practically all the Stairly priests were there, and that they were given special mistreatment. That at tomorrow, when the temperature was below the minus, they were driven naked into the courtyard of the mill barracks, the prisons at the time, at that moment. Then they were moved and all that. Two years ago, at a speech by a church dignitary, an ex- MP, at the time in the LDS, spoke out publicly that that dignitary from the Maribor diocese should apologize for the position and functioning of his institution, called the Maribor diocese, during World War II. Think about it. The most misleading part in Styria was then, and this has to be acknowledged, RCC. And she suffered the worst consequences. I read years ago that, I don't know exactly where the Styrian city was. The question was also: Did the Church in Styria cooperate with the invader? There were 70% of the answers yes. This shows a catastrophic picture of indoctrination, perversion and conscious division in this country. Just once again: only the benevolent and naive, even here present, can convince someone that this is not a very precise ideological project – irritation with this law at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u57	Replica Mr. Roman Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. I repeat at the point when my colleague Jerovšek mentioned me about my statement concerning the case of the New Bank of Ljubljana. In my debate, I wanted to say and respond to Mrs Irgle's observations in her opening remarks when she said that we do not care about shareholders or defrauded citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in various transactions. She was talking about Primorje. However, I tried to say that it would be right to say something about the fifth largest Slovenian financial holding company, that is, Zvon 1 and Zvon 2 or holding the Maribor archdiocese, which Belinko, Helios, Cincarna, then T2 telecommunications, brought Krekova's company to a standstill to mention only a few companies with major financial problems because of this, and – I also checked if I was right – 63 000 399 investors in these certificates. But it's not a problem that five banks have blocked the bill of the Maribor archdiocese or these companies, but that these two are mostly owned by this country. This is Nova Ljubljanska banka, which we are talking about all the time, and Nova Kreditna banka Maribor. I was talking about someone paying for this: no one else but us, taxpayers, because they actually insured bad assets in these banks. However, good assets were secured where they had to be protected at the Austrian Raiffeisen Bank, which would take the castle on Betnava, which it had received. And that's what I'm talking about! That, on the one hand, we are wasting money on the fact that the Roman Catholic Church is not only in its private companies, but also in the country gets millions, that it has assets in billions, and that we are now talking about this and we are enemies of this country because we are talking about the state not paying social contributions to the clergy. I don't understand! If we give up and give up our families for the second, third child, why can't we also cut into the area called, according to yours, "splitting" in a segment called the clergy. That's all I was talking about. When I spoke about the New Ljubljana Bank, I said that the Nova Ljubljanska Bank actually lost 500 million because of the financial frauds made by the Maribor archdiocese, but here we are talking about social contributions to the clergy.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u59	Mag. Majda Potter as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Well, it is predictable that some, regardless of the agenda item, always discuss the same things. And now my contribution to history. Styria was first evicted in the first wave by all educated, whether secular or church educated. The first armed action of young Scythians in Maribor was held on 29 April 1941 at the Volkmer Passage. This, Mr Jerovšek, I have never heard them say or quote. But you need to know about the historical memory. Seeking a background for the application of the Act on 18 May, just before the second anniversary of the Constitutional Court decision on 8 June. Whether it is a good time or not, I have already said, but the crisis was already in the previous term. If anyone had the patience and will to look for what the opposition was doing then, let him go, I advise, as an example, to look only at the Commission's agenda for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. He'll have something to see.Oh, my God! Now, to what has been repeatedly seen to be ugly intentions and that nothing needs to be changed, the Secretary of State also said because the Constitutional Court has already repealed. What would happen to Article 13, I've already said. If you subtract the first paragraph from it, you practically have no basis for registration. The same is followed by the suspension of the first and fifth points in Article 14, since it is also linked to the required registration quorum, so that we can also walk after what the Constitutional Court has said with regard to the repeal of the third and fourth paragraphs of Article 24. I will read to you that you will see what the Constitutional Court has repealed: "If there are enough persons in detention throughout the country of the same religion, the Ministry responsible for justice will employ the required number of priests of this religion for full or shorter working hours or otherwise provide payment for the work done." The Constitutional Court has repealed its employment. The same fourth paragraph: "The priest who is appointed and employed in accordance with the preceding paragraph shall be able to carry out his service without supervision and shall visit the detainees of the relevant confession at the appropriate time." It's been canceled. The second paragraph of Article 25 has also been repealed: "If there is sufficient number of caregivers of the same religion in hospitals throughout the country, the Ministry responsible for health shall ensure in a partnership agreement on the basis of a law governing the financing of health programmes and services, the employment of the required number of priests in accordance with the rules of the Minister..." and so on. It is true — in this law and the Constitutional Court did not speak of employees in the police and military, but it was not asked about it. And so the Constitutional Court acts when it considers the constitutionality of individual provisions in the law to judge what has been asked. The talk was that the 41st article of the Constitution, I read it to you, but the one who says that confession of faith and other definitions in private and public life is free. And that is also what the Constitutional Court is talking about, exactly, at the 100th point of its text, the constitutional decision. Go see what it says! It equates and requires that the world-renowned communities, think-tanks, be aligned with the religious and the Churches. What remains to be said in this regard is that the ninth point of the European Convention – Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights also speaks and equates opinions, faith and guarantees freedom of expression for both. I don't know why this is problematic in Slovenia. Perhaps the reason is that agnostics, atheists, humanitarianists and others who are not considered believers have been compared by one of the current coalition members in the previous term with members of the beekeeping society. All honor and glory to beekeepers, but things are different. It is true, however, that the law we have tabled in the registration provisions and other matters follows the law on societies; the same as in the regulation of financial standards in the accounting law. This is what seems to bother some that it is so arranged! But if we are a legal country, then legal standards must apply to all. Well, it would be interesting to say that, as I have already said, this law is the same as what, with some changes, of course, was introduced last year. On that proposal, the SDS tabled amendments, and only two articles had not been tabled by the SDS. The 16 articles were such as where she requested the deletion of the article and some were minor amendments. Maybe 16 or 17 or 4 or 16 or 5 of those that are trivial -- I can't find a record here where I prepared this to tell you what it was like with these things. As a matter of fact, the law was stopped. The dismissal of the government and the dissolution of Parliament prevented the amendment of the law from being dealt with to the place and would have ceased. At this point, I don't know if it would have been accepted or not, but unconstitutionality is still not over, and that's the only big secret and the only backdrop to make this novel. Now, I leave to the signatories of the proposal to classify themselves in the two categories mentioned by Mr Jerovšek: whether they are malicious, hateful and not know what else these definitions are – undemocratic and Stalinistic – or rather naive, ignorant and seductive. Not one and not the other is not true. Each person decides on his own signature, no one has been forced to sign the novel, he has done so according to his own free conscience and has found it right to do so. The issue of funding, which some of you mention, is in fact different in different countries. Some give the case of Austria. Austria has a religious tax on religious communities or on the Church. But when we follow Austria's example, let's say that Austria has not returned property in the process of denationalisation and Slovenia is. And the Church has now received all of this as the largest denationalisation beneficiary. Mr Jerovšek opened the question of the bishopship of Maribor. I would ask him when he so vehemently advocates for the rights of small people — what about small shareholders? What about all the assets that Slomšek had by moving his seat from the Labotska Valley to Maribor, which allowed him to collect to the Moroccan bishopship or archdiocese, and was now as wasted as it was lost? But he's not worried about that? And if he listens to people’s opinions, has he not heard people say how bitter they are about what is happening in the parish of Maribor? Perhaps it would be good to come to Maribor sometime, Mr Jerovšek, and listen to someone else, not only to those you want to hear! As for a different way of regulating it. It might be good to look at the data on how much income has already been allocated. Perhaps it would also be good to say that the gifts are not taxed, but perhaps it would be good to say that among those who are exempt from payment for the change of destination for the land you are now applying, this blessing is also given to the Church as one who receives gifts from such lands so as not to wonder who is politicizing and who is introducing ideological themes. Firstly, once again, you were in the coalition when you dismissed the Director of the Office of Religious Communities, the second solution was that you moved the Office of Religious Communities, whether you abolished it or how else you arranged it, I don't know. I don't even know what the savings were. The third thing was the incorporation of the Religious Freedom Act into the Public Finance Balance Act. I could still review some other laws and tell you where you are, but it is interesting that you speak so much about ideology and the diving of the historical theme, but to me one of your ministers, more specifically, Mr Plitsačnik, has signed an answer to the question of the Member State, which clearly and loudly states that it is necessary to redefine history. [[...]] Either it's ideological or it's not ideological, and I don't know if it's up to everyone. Therefore, you know the one who screams, "Take the thief." I could tell you one more thing about the classification of the world-renowned communities, the opinion communities in the law on religious freedom. We have already transposed the two directives into legislation, and you have peacefully forgotten this, and both directives also concern the opinion communities of the world. I will end this part by saying: Dear colleagues and colleagues, see Article 1 of this bill, see what it says in this article. Nothing has changed, what was adopted in the Religious Freedom Act, which was adopted in 2006 and 2007. This article also, see, churches and other religious communities as generally useful organizations treat churches and religious communities as generally beneficial organizations. So who's taking something from the communities and the churches? Who treats them hostilely? Who takes away their mission? Think about it when you attribute hostile purposes to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u61	Replica, Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u62	Thank you. Dear colleague, I must say that she misinterpreted it completely when she told me that I had also classified it under the probably category of good-natured suckers and that anyone had signed this law under duress. I believe that because it is also legitimate, it is a legitimate instrument on political struggle, but I am not such a sucker as to think you were forced to sign as a first-signatory. I believe that you've written and signed this law with your heart and that, according to my information, the pirates had to ease the text a little bit, because it was a little more uncircumcised and that they improved the little diction and the text. I am particularly sure that this has to do with yours when I read a note from your pre-Congress Round Table at Murski Sobota, whom you chose as idols in your client – this has told me everything – and what values, you were present there. That's what I have to say, Mrs. Potter, that there will be no doubt, too, I am bitter about what happened to the savers, the small shareholders in these management companies, Bell 1 and Bell 2. They will probably be able to believe me more honestly, because much earlier, the same thing happened to me when the whole family submitted certificates to Infond and two years ago, when the culmination of the affair of Laško and Mr Shrot, which you have always supported, was your client, and then the press representative of your party, Mr Koshir, was still editor of Dela. At the time when the certificates were worth €64 from the entire family, I was told on the front page of Dela that I had denied tycoon ownership, co-ownership – when the certificates of four members of the family were worth only €64! I am much more sympathetic than Mr Jakič and you and these small shareholders, because I have essentially the same experience with the tycoons that are associated with your customers from Laské and so on. Look. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u63	Mr Jerovšek, it's been three minutes. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u64	Okay. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u65	So please, if [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u66	I hope I answered that. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u67	Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to prepare, please, Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Fellow Members and Members! In its debate, I would focus mainly on comparing the arrangements for the financing of the church and religious communities in Slovenia with the European Union countries, to which I hope, at least, we would like to compare ourselves in the regulation of this area. In 2005, the Research Department of the National Assembly carried out a research mission on church taxes and their regulation in the European Union countries. I therefore rely on the results of this study. In all European countries, the country plays a direct or indirect role in financing religious activities. The two systems are mainly connected: the system of the State Church and the system of the recognised church. Mrs Potrata, I would only touch on Austria's tax and there was no property returned – Austria has not even nationalised property. If I just keep going. In the first system, Finland, Denmark, the church is recognised as a state. The Church in these countries does not only exercise religious roles but also carries out certain civil duties, such as the management of civil registers and funeral activities. The church tax is therefore intended in these countries to cover the costs of churches, such as these, and also the costs incurred in carrying out civil activities of churches. The tax obligation is general, even if it is possible to avoid paying the tax due to the absence of church membership, it cannot be completely avoided, precisely because of the civil activities carried out by the church. In Sweden, everyone is thus obliged to pay a certain percentage of the tax on funeral activities, irrespective of religious affiliation. The Council of Europe believes that such a regime places a particular church in a privileged position, and it is also questionable to treat persons who are not members of the State Church equally. If I go to another system, it is said in the recognised Church system, however, citizens are allowed to decide, in accordance with their own conviction, whether they will contribute to the financing of one of the churches recognised by the State. Such funds are the main source of church funding and are intended, inter alia, for the payment of church staff and the maintenance of church buildings. For example, this is in Italy, Germany, Spain. The church tax or contribution shall be around 1% of the income. We might ask ourselves why it is in Slovenia that the situation of financing of religious communities would have been regulated by law so far substantially differently than in comparable European countries. This situation is certainly conditioned by the disintegration in Slovenian society, mainly by the extremity of members of the church from public and political life a long postwar period. Religious communities in Slovenia, including the church, do not yet have a regular source of income provided by the state, with which religious communities would have their own resources and decisions. The Constitutional Court's decision is to respect and regulate the area of registration of religious communities and the area of financing the employment of priests in hospitals and prisons for the purpose of carrying out spiritual care. However, in this area it will be necessary to regulate in a spirit of respect for religious freedom and, above all, to find solutions comparable to those in the rest of the European Union. And once again, I would like to point out that the younger generation is unburdened with the past and that we are part of Europe, so we want to have European standards of religious freedom.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u69	Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the word, so let me prepare myself, please, Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Let me also contribute to this debate. I'm a cosigner of the law. I'm not fooled or blinded. What is the reason why we change the existing law? First, the removal of inconsistencies with the Constitution and the resolution of issues that have proved to be very difficult in practice or could present problems in the future, in particular in obtaining reliable data. Furthermore, we are regulating a funding system that is much more transparent, better, more transparent. Furthermore, the regulation of religious, spiritual care in public institutions, where apprentices are hampered by the exercise of the right to religious freedom and, last but not least, the establishment of world-viewed communities, we ensure equal treatment of these communities in addition to churches and religious associations or communities. In some ways, however, what was decided in the 2007 Constitutional Decision dealt with a number of issues which, as you say, were not definitively settled, but a change of law was needed, and the legal period by which this should be settled was long overdue. Our colleagues say much that the debate is unproductive, ideological and political, but when we move on to arguments, it is running out of time. I would like the debate to be such that we are facing arguments and counter-arguments, not the ideological designations that we use as an inkling when we do not know what to say. Far from being ideologically blinded, we want order and transparency over the functioning of religious communities and their financing to be established in the Slovenian legal order. The Constitutional Court has already stated in that decision that State funding for religious activities is "constitutionally permissible and is in the field of discretion of the legislator". [[...]] How has this been handled so far? So far, it has been arranged in a way that allowed funding for those activities that fall within the framework of the social state and, as we have already heard today, has been a major contribution mainly in the field of Criterion, in the field of education, including the protection of cultural heritage, which is right. That's right! However, there are activities which, of course, go beyond this field of activity. It is a matter of co-financing contributions to religious servants or priests. Even though the ZUJF has arranged to finance these contributions in a way that reduces the contribution from 60% to 48% of the employer's contributions, it is still worth stressing that the country contributes 2.4 million euros directly from its budget, or that amounted to that in 2011. What was the historical basis for this contribution? The historical basis, of course, stems from socialism and is somehow linked to the denationalisation of church property. Well, that's way out of line now. The church has got its assets back, so it also goes away in some way, we'll say, the reason for maintaining such a way of financing. What does it look like in practice? In practice, this seems to be done by calculating the number of beneficiaries on the basis of religiously defined people according to the 2002 census. Ladies and gentlemen, things have changed from 2002 to today. Moreover, the data was not collected for the purpose of obtaining data on co-financing of religious communities, but for other purposes. Since then, this information has not been obtained and, after inertia, the calculations are still running in the same way. And in a way, we can also say that already after the current law, in Article 27, in the fourth paragraph, the existing law states that the number of religious members can also be proved by means of data sources, declarations, documents and so on. And look at the fraction, not one religious community has ever used it. Why not? Because it's hard. What is happening to the new funding system that we want to introduce? The new funding system, of course, is based on the fact that financing of religious communities is not a human right. It is permissible if the criteria for this funding are non-arbitrary and if this does not preclude the separation of the church from the State. How are we going to carry out the funding? All activities that fall within the framework of the financing of the social state will continue to be regulated as is currently the case. Operators will be able to compete with other operators of this activity, which belong in the private sphere for the implementation of this activity. That's what they say. Nobody's gonna get taken away. The possibility of being financed by priests in exceptional circumstances will be preserved, including in the exercise of human rights. But what is changing is such a minor proportion that one simply wonders why this storm is in a glass of water. It is about replacing the system of co-financing payments of contributions to priests by the way that applies to all other civil society organisations. For what else is the church, as one of the largest civil society organizations in society, and of course it is right to arrange its funding in the same way. Hence, it is supported by those who are, in fact, its members or believers. As a result, for these, the 0.5 mechanism, as we call it in the non-governmental sector, will be allowed, in short, to allocate 0.5% of its income to those church believers or supporters who believe that it is necessary to support its activities. As I say, this will align the church with other subjects of civil society. Let me say that this mechanism, introduced by the late Dr. Bayuk, is not under any circumstances exploited, that there is still considerable room for manoeuvre to obtain these funds, at least half, but it is necessary to make an effort to do so. As a lecturer of methods and method of obtaining funds, I will tell you that it will probably not be easier for anyone to get potential supporters to devote this part of their income to their church than to the church, since not least every week, in every Sunday mass he also has the opportunity to do so. You say it's ideological and non-European, but you're denied the facts. We can see already in the annex that many countries: Italy, Hungary, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, and others, many countries are regulating the funding system in a similar way to the new laws. Can you explain to me what's going on in this way of financing ideologically? Nothing. And also, colleague Dimic, you know, in seven years, a lot has changed, so I would like to ask that we are also correct in citing the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u71	Thank you. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Get Mr. Franz Puksič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u72	Thank you. It is good to read what is in our hands, and my colleague, Črnak Megličeva, has pointed to the annex to this law, which speaks about how countries regulate their relationship with religious communities. But one thing is essential. The Constitutional Court points out that the state must have the same vat when measuring its attitude towards religious communities, towards all, and this must be based on verifiable data because we do not have a state church in Slovenia. I am very sorry if anyone cannot accept this, but Slovenia does not have a state church, because this is based on Article 7 of the Constitution, which speaks of the separation of state and church. And even if you are reading a statement from the tops of the four largest religious communities in Slovenia, you have noticed that there are four, that the Islamic Community, that the Serbian Orthodox Church, that it is the Evangelical Church and that it is the Roman Catholic Church, and there are many others. And again, I advise you, go to the website of the Office of Religious Communities, you will see who all of the larger communities have been involved in amending legislation. Many of these were, and some are really very small. What the Constitutional Court has imposed is that it must not be treated differently by registered and unregistered communities. And this is also one of the basic provisions. How European standards change. Look what Norway has accepted – Norway is indeed not a member of the European Union, but it has strictly separated the church and the country. Italy, Catholic Italy does not finance or accept theological faculty as part of the university. We have a theological college as part of the university, and that's how we acquire public funds. We also receive funds from private schools, including Catholic private schools with concessions. They are 100 % or 85 % of the funding for the programme. And it's the same if they're running a public programme. No one opposes this, and no one goes with this novelty of law. So I don't know where you see fear and hostility. However, what we are talking about must be said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič is not present. We are moving on to the next debater, Mr. Janez Vasle. Let's get ready, please, mag. Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. I have to congratulate my colleagues and colleagues for their good knowledge, for them and for them. I'm, as you know, a novice to these rooms, but there's something I'd like to say. Do not compare the Maribor archdiocese with the entire Roman Catholic Church in Slovenia. The Maribor archdiocese is now in court. But I know that, for example, their local parishioners, who belong to the diocese of Maribor, are also bitter and very publicly protested that they are very economically and rationally mastering them. So they're completely different subjects. Then he always stabs me. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u75	We're out of time for a longer discussion. Mag. Borut Ambrožič, please prepare Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honor! In presenting my position on the proposed law, I will focus mainly on the issue of equal treatment of religious communities and other world-level associations that have found their place on Slovenian soil not only 2,000 years ago, but also in semi-existing or newer history. The applicants are primarily concerned with the elimination of the contrary-constitutions found by the Constitutional Court, as well as the constitutional decision of 15. 4. 2010 which states that "the content of the human right of religious freedom also applies to other atheistic, agnostic, humanistic and other forms of religious association operating in the field of freedom of conscience". Among the main objectives of the amendment of the proposed law are the regulation of religious spiritual care in public institutions where the exercise of the right to religious freedom is made difficult for members. This is also the subject of some sectoral laws. I know one of them very well. I faced him as an agent for the patient's rights. This is the Patients' Rights Act, which states in Article 13 that a health care provider must provide conditions for the exercise of the patient's right to adequate religious spiritual care in accordance with the law governing religious freedom. In conclusion, let me express my thoughts and finally the quote of our Mariborian, adopted by Mariborian, or born in Pesnica near Maribor, Toneta Partljič, who states in today's Evening, "that when he thinks of the Maribor diocese, he is surprised to note that even the almighty God is completely impossible in the fight against capital and banks." In conclusion, I really hope that no one among us is forced to deal with any of the content that has been heard today in the introduction of one of the coalition's pronouns, and also that I sincerely believe that the opposition does not have heavy weapons and even less related ammunition, because I hope that they are the pacifists themselves in our ranks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u77	Mrs Alenka Jeraj has the floor to prepare myself, please, Mr Roman Žveglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Slovenia is in crisis right now. The government is trying to increase economic activity, increase economic growth, reduce unemployment to reduce indebtedness, and the opposition is of the opinion that it is most important at this time to regulate the Law on Religious Freedom. In so doing, you refer to the Constitutional Court's decision; in the introduction of the proposal, you wrote, "the reason, the basis and the basis of the amendments and the addition of the Religious Freedom Act is the Constitutional Court's decision". Now perhaps we should first tell what the court had decided and what it had decided or found. The first paragraphs of Article 13 and Article 14, paragraphs 1 and 5, of the Religious Freedom Act are repealed. The third paragraph of Article 24 of the Religious Freedom Act, where it relates to the employment of priests, Article 24, paragraph 4, of the Religious Freedom Act, paragraph 2, of the Religious Freedom Act and the last sentence of Article 27, paragraph 1, of the Religious Freedom Act, are repealed. The repeal shall take effect one year after the publication of this Decision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Court also ruled on many other articles, saying: Article 20 of the Law on the Legal Situation of Religious Communities in the Republic of Slovenia and Article 29(3) of the Law on Religious Freedom are not inconsistent with the Constitution. This is the article that talks about funding, which we have been talking about for some time now. Articles 24 and 25 of the Law on Religious Freedom are not inconsistent with the Constitution. Articles 22 and 23 of the Religious Freedom Act and the third paragraph of Article 52 of the Defence Act are not inconsistent with the Constitution. Article 26 of the Law on Religious Freedom is not inconsistent with the Constitution, Article 27, paragraph 5, of the Law on Religious Freedom is not inconsistent with the Constitution, Articles 30 and 32 of the Law on Religious Freedom are not incompatible with the Constitution. As it is said, the Constitutional Court has judged several articles, namely those for which the Council of State, when it has sent them to be judged, has also argued why it considers them to be unconstitutional. We have been listening to him unconstitutional for several days in another marriage, and we can see that in the end all that someone is saying is not constitutional, that he will prove it in the Constitutional Court may not happen that way. In our case, whether one law or one article is constitutional or unconstitutional shall be decided by the Constitutional Court. And until there is a decision by the Constitutional Court, no one can say that something is unconstitutional. This means that several of the articles you want to regulate under this law are affecting those areas in which the Constitutional Court has not said that they are not incompatible with the Constitution, but that the law is appropriate and appropriate. That is why, of course, this reference to the Constitutional Court is in place in the part where the articles were actually abolished and could have become a legal void, but the Secretary of State has announced, and also the Government, that the minor corrections are being prepared in accordance with what appears, of course, after the enactment of the law, and in line with what the Constitutional Court has repealed in this case. By law, you are interfering with a number of areas for which the Constitutional Court has not considered them to be unconstitutional, but you refer to the need to correct them because of unconstitutionality. The articles were repealed one year after the decision was issued, i.e. on 15 April 2011, those articles which I mentioned were also repealed, and this repeal entered into force. The legislator could or could not fix this, regardless of the day I stated, these articles no longer apply. Therefore, referring to the Constitutional Court is not enough reason for me to support this law and I will not. But I will make those corrections that will be prepared by the Government and will improve the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u79	As a proponent of mags. Waste, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u80	Thank you. As a proponent, I replicate Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. Undemocraticity and unconstitutionality have been marked by the novel, and the Constitutional Court has not judged the novel, and the question is whether, because of what you think, you will reject it. So much for that. There is no reason, however, that we should not be able, in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, to introduce laws because Members and Members are qualified law-makers. So, if any other matter is further regulated than that, this is all possible, and you, which have already tabled 16 amendments to the law in the previous term to delete articles, five amendments to a partial amendment, two articles to a non-partial amendment, you will have the same opportunity in this bill to cut down amendments to all that you do not think is acceptable. The funding we manage differently is due to the lack of relevant data on how many members of a religious community or church are registered. He doesn't have any. By the way, I don't know why this would be a threat now that the archdiocese, one of the two, has said that what the state gives directly to the religious communities from the budget does not constitute any significant share of the funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u81	Mr Roman Žveglič has the floor to prepare for me, please Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u82	Good-bye, everybody! Thank you for your word. I'm a little confused today when I'm listening to all this. I come from a congregation where we have two archdioceses, two bishops, four decants and fifteen farces. We're a big congregation, aren't we? But that's right. As a moderate Christian, I am often at work at a church protected by the State but cannot afford to rebuild it, rather than at the ceremony of the Holy Mass. True, I try to take my parents to the Holy Mass ceremony every Sunday, and even for a holiday, if I may. Even after a survey of the popularity of professions in this country, a priest, a priest, 19th place, and a farmer, 18th place, is said to be quite close to each other in this regard. And there's another thing. Like the Roman Catholic Church, farmers also have wealth, fabulous state subsidies, oh and all. From this point of view, there should be a third of people for this profession, but in fact I was in my final stages until I came to Parliament, one of the younger farmers, but I am so old that when Prešeren wrote the Word from my youth, he was 18 years younger than me. But when I look into the family, how many new-males are a year old, you can count them in one hand. I don't really understand these connections about these wealth and the popularity of these professions, so to speak, with mere occupation. Even in these payments to farmers, the country pays one part of co-financing, says we are about the same here. It is true, however, that these social security contributions, part of them, have already been paid by the previous state and would be seriously interfering with individual rights acquired now. But I don't realize that time isn't right, because time is always right, as we take it, for every thing. I am surprised, though, that of all these major four religious communities, there is no law behind them. But this is not working out for me – I would say, according to my home "I am not going to play" – but in what way at least some of these major religious communities should agree with the proposed law, in my opinion, if they were prepared in a dialogue. But it's obviously not. And that is why I object to him because he shares and does not try to find any synergy, if this matter is already to be settled, because all these arguments, of course, are partly misleading, are also partly unacceptable to our country, which wants to overcome this once-in-a-time hostile attitude towards religion and religious communities. Although I would really expect the proponents to withdraw this law and try to find dialogue, because if not with the coalition, at least try with the religious communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor, I see that he is not in the hall. Mrs. Eva Irgle. [[She's not here.]] A representative of the government? Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The Government underlines that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, by decision U-I-92/7, has annulled only the minimum solutions in certain specific provisions of the Religious Freedom Act, in relation to the condition of the number of members sufficient to register the church or religious community and the employment of priests in institutions for the cessation of sentences and hospitals. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia found compliance with the Constitution in the decision in question and, with regard to the other provisions of the law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will prepare the necessary amendments to the law as a result of that decision of the Constitutional Court. The proposal for a new law, this proposal, which deletes Article 23 of the established law, sets out in Article 11 religious spiritual care in public institutions, regulating in the same way religious spiritual care in the police, the military, the hospitals and the institutions of detention. However, the Constitutional Court has adopted in the decision referred to therein a position that the situations referred to in the proposal of the law cannot be equivalent, since the Constitutional Court has established the constitutional consistency of the decisions of the law stipulating that States in the military and the police employ priests or religious servants. The proposed law, which prohibits the employment of priests and religious servants in the military and police, in Article 22, paragraph 5, even though the Constitutional Court of these decisions, which allows such employment, has not been repealed, since they are in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, has therefore gone much further. In this way, the proposer, without any serious and legitimate reason, assuming that the current regime is constitutionally inconsistent, without adequate coordination with the churches and religious communities, intervenes in the current regime, with which churches and religious communities also agree. In the same decision, the Constitutional Court explains that, if this is necessary for the exercise of positive religious freedom, the deprivation of freedom of individuals must be neutralized by active action to mitigate the resulting deprivation. It is said that something can also be changed under special conditions. Such a Constitutional Court. We will adapt these things, but of course this bill goes much further, and in the opinion of the Government it is not suitable for further consideration, as I said in the first part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u85	Ms. Magi's proposer. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u86	Thank you. None of the co-signers of the law have informed me so far that he would be willing to withdraw his signature. I therefore rightly conclude that we are firmly convinced that we have put a well-prepared law before the National Assembly, which has been dealt with in the previous term and has experienced some improvements since that hearing. I therefore believe that matters relating to churches, religious communities and the world-viewed communities are worth considering. Therefore, Members and Members who do not see that we have convinced them so far by this proposal and by their deliberations, I call for them to read it carefully by tomorrow's vote, because every article in the explanatory memorandum explains exactly what part of the Constitutional Court's decision we are measuring and why we are proposing as we propose. Let the vote, however, allow the law to go to a second reading. In the second reading, however, those things for which there will be no agreement can still be withdrawn. Once again, in the law — and this was a fundamental motive — we eliminate the constitutional inconsistencies or inconsistencies identified by the Constitutional Court concerning the criteria for the registration of religious communities and the employment of priests in hospitals and prisons, deal with matters that have proved to be very difficult in practice or could be so. I repeat, it is a question of obtaining data on the number of members of each faith or of the religious community, because this is the criterion by which it is to be shared. So far, however, members of the largest religious communities in Slovenia have not provided this data nor have they proposed a way of identifying it. A new method of funding is proposed which takes into account the individual’s decision, i.e. the individual’s right to decide to whom he will devote a portion of his income of 0.5%, but also less, is understandable. The provision of religious spiritual care in public institutions where the exercise of the right to religious freedom is difficult for members, is justified and must also be co-financed by the State, and the latter is the establishment of world-viewed communities. This is the five basic points that the proposed amendment contains in some other regulations, and we believe that it is worth your attention and also your responsibility to decide whether the proposed decisions are such that you can give them support. Anyway, I would have made another mistake, which was probably a lapsus. Indeed, the decision of the Constitutional Court of April 2010 was published on 8 June and therefore the time limit within which the non-compliance should be corrected was 8 June 2011. During the second year of this disharmony and repealing articles, it is probably the right time to consider how to settle the matter and remedy the constitutional void. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u87	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. Login is currently in progress [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] I beg your pardon? It's not working? Mr Jožef Jerovšek, Mrs Tamara Vont, has been reported, and you too will be able to get the floor. Every five minutes. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u88	Thank you very much. With regard to this concrete law, I must stress once again that I reject this ideological instrument at this time to cause division and intolerance in the Slovenian space, because our priorities are completely different. And there must be others for Members of the National Assembly. It is also not possible to lower human rights standards at this time, which is all the intention of this law. There's one thing about the law itself. I must say that I am disturbed by the fact that the proponents have foreseen that as many as 10 members of a religious community can register a religious community. This is, of course, an attempt to introduce as many religious sects as possible because they are not yet religious communities. Such practices have already had bad consequences in the past, in particular one in this year, when some sects are being established by force, of course, instructuralized and supported in order to then cry out that they must all be equal, they all have the same opportunities, although one is already present and they have a lot of members, and the other are sects. And I have to say from before, because I was directly invited to come to Maribor, why I'm not coming to Maribor. I have to say that I am often in Maribor, but on Friday I saw all the venues, including the exhibition in the Maribor cafe, which also applies to the Maribor Germans. Of course I wasn't there with the Ich bin ein Mariborian shirt, but I went as a proud Slovenian to that exhibition. But they told me, colleague, that you rarely come to Maribor lately. So if you're inviting me to Maribor, I have to say it. And the one about the intelligence that was closed. They were Conscious Slovenians. My father probably didn't, even though he had a classic high school, but he was a farmer, ascribed to me no intelligence. Together with Sharh, they were closed, the farmer — that was the criterion. And then — so familiar with the situation in Maribor — there were very few Communists there. Those Bistricians usually walked with their hands up, Heil Hitler, on the Bistrica paraded and then supported Hitler with Stalin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tamara Vont has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I think we're at the end of this treatment now. Somehow I was trying to sum up some of the things that I had heard and that I would also like to answer a little bit as much as I would allow. The New Law on Religious Freedom, or so - called negligent product of the opposition, as we have heard, eliminates constitutional inconsistencies related to the equal treatment of all religious communities or worldview organizations. So it's a solution that should have already been established after those abolished, it says, it's a legal void that is now being created, and it's essentially a novel that's supposed to put an end to it. I understand this as one of the key tasks of the National Assembly and one of the essential tasks of Members and Members. The removal of constitutional disagreements that follow only the Constitutional Court rulings that should have been taken into account long ago should have been, as I have heard, our heavy weapons or ammunition, our classic Stalinist Institute, our hatred of religious communities, our universal weapons with extreme conclusions, according to others with the law's awesome long history, almost all the way to medieval crusades. Please, let us not underestimate those who look at us and listen to us. Melting between insults and perverts occurs when there are no arguments. In not one sentence did we mention hatred or in any way incite hatred toward religious communities. Whoever says that is lying. It's really about some discrepancies, some gaps that need to be solved, so we're here, too, right? We certainly did not want to introduce religious sects by law. I can promise you that. And even if we didn't know how many churches, I believe that it is that they are before the law, that I say, and also by the constitution all the same, that we can't say, and now that church that has 100,000, it has completely different rights than the one that has a hundred. Please! Only people who really don't have informed people can fall for it, otherwise I can't say. [[...]] This is ideological, and this is in some ways, in the purest form, a violation of the coalition treaty. It's more of a joke, but basically it's a joke. In short, no one today said that the religious community, that the church is not in the public interest. Nobody said that. We are all aware of the role of the church in public life, and we do not want to diminish it in any way, its role. But the rest is another ideological ballast, which I thought we might drop a little today. If the government had an interest in reforming, we were already halfway there, we could join us, we might find a common solution, we would have come across to say so, but there was no interest. No, no, no. Now we're going to go because we're already on a three-quarter path or on a half-way, no, now we're going to go again from the beginning to prove that there's only one right and that together we can't take so much as nothing. It's like a new Member of Grief to me. That is all I would like to say in this regard. There's no way I can agree that anyone here will tell me that I hate anyone, even though I heard that today. Now I was a little personal, but on purpose. No one should have allowed it, not me, not Mr Jerovšek, not anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, procedurally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u92	Mr President, it is now the second day that the Members of Positive Slovenia do not know how to press the key. But since Mr Kavtičnik did the same thing yesterday and today Mrs Vonta, I know that this is a project that worked, but that they are not in order, but that they have a final word for low blows. [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, I got nothing, I checked in all the time. And I'm asking you to check those places because it's not possible to do this statistically and legally, because they've already been involved with the government with the word, but at the very moment that it's necessary to fit into the order, it's not. This is tending, deliberately, to have a final word. Thank you very much, and this is incorrect on the part of fellow Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u93	Comrade Jerovšek, this was checked yesterday, I think twice. I ask that no one abuse the rules of procedure because many times they are actually abused. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide tomorrow, 14 June, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a resolution on the National Consumer Protection Programme. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give my word to the representative of the Magnificent Government. Mr Urošu Rožić, State Secretary, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, for a further explanation of the motion for a resolution. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u94	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! The national consumer protection programme is an inter-ministerial and fundamental strategic document on consumer protection that sets out the principles and long-term objectives of a policy, a type of consumer, sets a priority in the various areas of action and provides the framework needed to achieve these objectives. The national programme provides a basis for consumer policy-making and ensures the smooth implementation of public services in the field of consumer protection, such as consumer advice, education and information, the functioning of non-governmental consumer organisations, together with the European Consumer Centre and, last but not least, adequate supervision of the implementation of consumer protection legislation. The national programme highlights the common objective of consumer protection policy, which is to strengthen consumer protection and competence. Protection is the basis of consumer policies, it refers in general to product safety, food safety and, of course, to safe services. Effective control of consumer markets is essential in ensuring security. In all areas, supervisory institutions also face demands to do more for less money. The competent supervisory authorities will need to maintain vigilance and efforts, and also to maintain and improve the level of product and service safety on the market through the effectiveness of cooperation. In order to improve the protection of consumers' economic interests, the country will, during the planned period, highlight a public scheme of out-of-court solutions to consumer disputes. In the framework of this project, legislation will first have to be adopted to enable the creation of independent bodies for the alternative resolution of consumer disputes. In line with the principles of impartiality, transparency and legality, this will resolve consumer disputes with businesses, and in particular allow consumers to have easy, fast and affordable procedures to resolve their disputes. Countering the security and protection of consumer interests are policies aimed at improving consumer competence to make the best purchase decisions in increasingly complex and complex markets, including the supply of more and more diverse, such as financial services. It should also be stressed that consumer protection is increasingly intertwined and integrated into the policies of the European Union's single market, where European policy seeks to achieve a high and uniform level of consumer protection, thereby increasing consumer confidence in cross-border shopping and simplifying business. This fact dictates content and is also a framework for consumer protection strategies and programmes in Slovenia. The proposed national programme thus includes all essential European objectives. The main emphasis is on ensuring consumer rights and security and strengthening their market position with a view to enabling them to choose independently, freely and reasonably on the market and to strengthen their awareness of the rights they belong to them through various measures. As an inter-ministerial document, the national financial work programme is the sum of the indicative resources to be provided by individual ministries to carry out tasks in the field of security and consumer protection. In the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, nearly EUR 360 000 is planned this year for the provision of public service, consumer advice and information and for the functioning of non-governmental consumer organisations and the European Consumer Centre. The funds will be distributed on the basis of public tenders and eligible recipients of funds are non-governmental consumer organisations. A large part of the programming requirements are the resources of the various supervisory institutions responsible for the protection of food and non-food products on the market, supervise compliance with consumer protection rules and express measures in accordance with their respective competences. The funds planned under the priorities of the national programme are only indicative resources for the implementation of measures over a period of six years, which form the basis for the preparation of two-year implementation plans adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The first two-year plan is now in preparation, which will take into account the rights of use of resources provided under the adopted budget rebalancing for this year. In addition to financial resources, the implementation plans shall identify individual measures, operators of measures, expected effects and measurable indicators that will enable effective implementation of measures to be monitored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Matjaž Han, President. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u96	Vice President, one nice day. Secretary of State with a team, colleagues and colleagues! At its 2nd meeting on 24 May this year, the Committee on Economic Affairs considered the draft resolution on the national consumer protection programme 2012-2017 submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. Meetings of the Committee were attended, as usual, by representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, our legislative service, the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and the Association of Consumers of Slovenia. The Committee was informed at the outset of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service in which it made some comments on the present act, which were taken into account by the amendment of the SDS Group. The members of the Committee were also informed of the proposals for amendments to the Committee of the Association of Consumers of Slovenia, which were mainly summarised in the proposals for amendments to the Committee of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. Individuals were, however, partly summarised in the proposals for amendments to the Committee of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The members of the Committee were also informed of the comments and the proposal for amendments to the Committee of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, then we had the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts and Tourism and the material of the Association of Consumers of Slovenia, which the members of the Committee received at the bench meeting. The SDS Group tabled amendments to the motion for a resolution within the time limit. The members of the committee were also presented at the meeting with proposals for amendments to the Committee of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, the SDS Group and a proposal for two amendments, which were amendments to the Committee and which were editorial in nature. At the meeting, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service provided an additional explanation for the written opinion. It explained that the comments of the service relate in particular to the need for more accurate recording and quoting of documents and the need to harmonise individual parts of each other's acts and to the applicable consumer protection law. She also explained that these comments were duly taken into account in the amendments of the SDS Group. The debate highlighted the importance of having the right information as a basis for proper consumer decisions. Support was expressed for maintaining the existing position of the institution, to which an individual can turn with regard to consumer protection in a particular situation. In the discussion on individual chapters of the resolution, the main focus was on the proposal for amendments to the Committee of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, namely Chapter 5, Sub-chapter 6.1.1, Sub-chapter 6.2.2 and Sub-chapter 6.2.4, and on the proposal for amendments to the Committee of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which is in Sub-chapter 6.8. In its discussion on the individual chapters of the motion for a resolution, the Committee adopted the following amendments: amendments to the SDS Group's Parliamentary Group, all amendments to the SDS Committee's amendments, certain amendments to the Committee's Committee of the Positive Slovenia Group, two amendments to the Drafting Committee's amendments to the preamble and to the indicator, and a proposal to amend the Committee to Chapter 6.5, which was formulated in order to align the text of the resolution on the basis of the legislative and legal service's comment. The Committee also voted on all chapters of the motion for a resolution jointly and also adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the supplementary motion for a resolution, which includes all the amendments adopted, is prepared. Such an updated motion for a resolution is also an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Truda Cinderella on behalf of the Group of the National Gazette. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u98	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! The resolution on the national consumer protection programme adopted at today's meeting is a fundamental strategic document on consumer protection. It defines the principles and objectives of consumer protection policy, as consumers are still considered to be the weakest market participant due to lack of knowledge and information. At the same time, fundamental principles in consumer policy-making are fundamental consumer rights. The centre is occupied by the right to security, followed by the right to information, to representation, to appeal and compensation, to a healthy environment and to basic goods. Consumers should be given better access to legal protection by establishing appropriate bodies for the out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes. The proposed resolution is a set of consumer protection policy measures and objectives in various areas affecting consumer rights and interests in the market. At the same time, the resolution seeks to further develop and strengthen consumer protection policies and sets general and priority priorities, taking into account the economic and social situation and the specificities of our market. Members of the Civil Code will be supported by a resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Žveglič on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u100	Dear President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, good day to you all! We have before us a rather extensive resolution of the national consumer protection programme for the period 2012-2017. We have held a very thorough and constructive debate on this topic on the home work body, such as the basic strategic document on consumer protection. Members were warned that this document should be dealt with in the second half of 2010 and that we are currently as a country without a key consumer protection document. So this was also part of the content of the victims, I can say, the free running of the country in 2011. It probably does not need to be highlighted in particular what the current economic situation is and, in the context of our economic performance, the consumer also plays a very important role. Private consumption is part of a gross domestic product that can actually shift the scale from recession to economic growth. We are in a period of rationalisation when the consolidation of the budget reduces the available income practically to every individual in the country. Therefore, it is all the more important that we deal with the protection of consumer rights. What does that mean? This means that as much information as possible is available, as much assistance in decision-making as possible, including incentives to follow changes in purchasing habits, the needs of people and the like. So to help with what Slovenka and Slovenians are most worried about today, how to get more with less money. Above all, it is essential to build confidence, that is to say, to establish that minimum confidence rate when an individual does not behave like one in a fit because he is concerned about his future. Such changes also mean a certain shock to the economy as a whole. And at the end of the good decision of an individual, for example, when choosing savings products, additional pension funds, more favourable credit lines, etc., when all of this is summed up, we also get long-term positive effects for the whole country. Better work of all inspection services, such as traceability of food products, crows and the like, should also be mentioned here. Members of the coalition tried to respect and support as much as possible all comments or amendments prepared by civil society, in particular the Union of Slovenian Consumers, which is extremely interesting, as well as the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. It is true, however, that the motion for a resolution must also move within the financial framework available, and some proposals have unfortunately overstepped this financial structure of the document. As has already been said, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are well aware of the importance of this topic, but at the same time the rationalisation of the use of public funds must be as uniformly distributed as possible, since any exception means that we must take more from someone else in the programme. After the discussion on the working body, I was given the feeling that the successful continuation of good work in the field of consumer rights will not be compromised, as we have a very professional approach in this area and some highly skilled experts on the subject. Of course, we all wish we could do more. If the country cannot help with financial resources already, it must listen well to the problems faced by organisations working in the field of consumer protection and help to the best of its ability by removing administrative and other obstacles to their even more successful functioning. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that the good and active cooperation of the competent national authorities with the organisations already mentioned can be a means of progress. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the motion for a resolution on the national consumer protection programme 2012-2017. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the draft resolution on the national consumer protection programme. This strategic document, which sets out the long-term objectives of consumer protection policies, is quite extensive and very important, since it is ready for a six-year period as a third in a row. The resolution is prepared on the basis of the Consumer Protection Act, the evaluation of the implementation of the previous resolution and the review of the situation. As such, it retains, on the one hand, and on the other hand builds on measures from the past period and creates new starting points. The main objective of consumer protection policies following this resolution is to further strengthen consumer protection and competence in the market, with the tasks and measures to achieve this objective focusing on ensuring consumer protection in the area of financial services, ensuring the safety and quality of non-food and food products and services in the market, establishing out-of-court consumer dispute resolution procedures and providing public services in the field of consumer protection. The characteristics of consumer protection policy are very complex as it interferes with all key areas of life. It is the hub of various policies, economic, food, environment, agriculture, housing, health, education and information policies related to human rights, and it is also highly dependent on the protection of competition. The State must, as well as the position of the DeSUS Group, protect the interests of consumers in all areas where interests can be compromised, especially when it comes to their health and the protection and safety of social and economic interests. Otherwise, in the DeSUS Group, we estimate that the protection of fundamental universal consumer rights in our society is very well cared for, but we are also in this area in time, but it is a prerequisite that the level of protection achieved is maintained at least, and we believe that it is important that we upgrade it too. In the hope and conviction that this resolution will indeed serve our Slovenian consumer over the coming years, and that even more effective implementation of consumer policies can be achieved and thus the highest possible level of consumer protection in the Republic of Slovenia, we will support this resolution, as already said at the outset, MEPs and Members of the DeSus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Mr Secretary of State with co-workers, all well hailed! By resolution on the national consumer protection programme 2012-2017, we are introducing guidelines in Slovenia that continue the efforts of the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen consumer protection and skills in Slovenia. Among the priority measures of the resolution are the provision of effective public service in the field of consumer advice and the establishment of a mechanism for the resolution of out-of-court consumer disputes that we do not yet have in Slovenia. Hyperproduction at global level, an exceptional supply of different services, marketing receptions, which are willing to aggressively approach the market and are these receptions on the edge or even outside the legal framework, suggest that we also establish a robust consumer protection system in Slovenia. Therefore, in New Slovenia we support all the measures that go towards ensuring greater consumer security and their rights. In this regard, we particularly welcome the country's objectives of strengthening cooperation between the professional public and non-governmental organisations and the ministries of the field and helping consumers to consult, to solve specific cases. In addition to this, the motion for a resolution also provides for improvements in consumer protection in the area of housing, environmental protection and financial services, public infrastructure services and non-food and food products security. In doing so in New Slovenia, we do not think it will harm to advise consumers in Slovenia or Slovenian consumers that, in particular, food is the best thing at home. In the field of safe food, which has great potential from the perspective of the Slovenian national economy, we have written in the Coalition Treaty: "The task of the State is to establish a uniform approach to the preparation of legislation by implementing the safe food policy and to ensure effective control throughout the entire agricultural food chain, with which to implement the password from field to table, which in practice means control of the whole activity, from primary production to the processing and sale of food to customers. The system of providing safe food must be effective, uniform and even safer for consumers than today." These are our coalition objectives, and I am sure that we will also realize them by the end of our term of office. In New Slovenia, we believe that the motion for a resolution under consideration is a good basis for enhancing consumer safety and building a system that can benefit both consumers and traders in the near future. The same applies to other areas defined in the resolution. For all these reasons, Members of New Slovenia will support the resolution on the national consumer protection programme for the five-year period 2012-2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs Alenka Pavlič on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u106	Dear Presidents, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The resolution on the national consumer protection programme is not only a basic document, but also a document which, in cooperation with expertise, should set priorities and a framework for the implementation of those tasks that will be carried out on the basis of the concession granted and on the basis of the European supported programmes. Unfortunately, the document is late, as it should have been addressed in 2010, so last year's work, and also in the poor middle of this year's year's year, has been difficult and only a great deal of effort by the non-governmental sector is thanks for the fact that there have been no major problems and financial consequences in this area. Slovenia is in the economic crisis and therefore assistance to consumers which is still not accessible or quality enough is still needed. At the European level, it was therefore particularly stressed that countries need to establish a specific level of consumer confidence at the time of the crisis, as there will be no exit if a high level of consumer protection is not established. We have followed the importance of the document in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia when it comes to the work of the mother body, so in accordance with the already established expertise of the non-governmental sector, we have summarised the amendments of the Union of Consumers of Slovenia as the umbrella organisation in this area. At the same time, it is worth stressing that this is an organisation which, on a European scale, is considered among the members of the European Union to be the one with the highest competence. As stated at the hearing, we can talk about large savings through appropriate consumer protection measures. The president of the organisation mentioned above specifically illustrated how large savings can be made if all consumers behave rationally. However, in order for everyone to follow this trend, we need to get the right information. In doing so, let me repeat to you the words of Mrs Brede Kutin, who stressed that they had made an assessment at the time of the change in the commissioner's bank account following the corresponding offer. We could save around 25 million euros. With the adoption and implementation of the Public Finance Balance Act, which has also affected the area of subsidisation of the first apartment, it is good to know that if an average housing loan of around EUR 80 000 for a period of 20 years, if an individual had hired it on the basis of an informed decision, it would save at least EUR 7 000. Unfortunately, there was no greater enthusiasm on the part of the coalition parliamentary groups for the more appropriate corrections proposed to improve the text of the resolutions. This is a document that has a significant impact on consumer relations with service providers and other products, which ultimately means a start-up of the economy. Reducing financial resources in the field of European support for the functioning of non-governmental consumer organisations, combining some tasks according to our assessment does not represent the optimal text of a motion for a resolution supported by Positive Slovenia in the Group. We will not oppose it, however, because it constitutes a basis for the continued functioning of institutions in support of consumer protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u108	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! In 2000, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the first national consumer protection programme for the period 2001-2005 on the basis of the then applicable consumer protection law. This was the first political document of the Slovenian country in the field of consumer protection. In particular, the programme defined basic consumer protection policies, activities financed or co-financed by the State budget, important principles, objectives and objectives of consumer protection policy and cooperation with non-governmental consumer organisations. Today, we can see that the consumer is still the weakest market participant, as he often lacks both knowledge and information. In the fight for the highest possible sales and profits, suppliers of goods and services continue to serve unfairly and to trample on fundamental consumer rights. These illegal receptions are even more frequent in times of economic crisis. It is the duty of the country to protect the interests of consumers in all areas where they may be potentially threatened. In order to protect consumers effectively, the country must take care of the fundamental rights of consumers, which provide consumers with a more equivalent position vis-à-vis providers of goods and services. The fundamental rights of consumers are based on fundamental principles in the design of consumer protection policy. These principles are based on established, fundamental and general consumer rights, which have been created on the basis of experience that the consumer is in a subordinate position on the market in relation to the providers of goods and services. This fact, however, may have a devastating long-term impact on the development of the market and on the level of competitiveness. In order to effectively protect consumers, it is essential that consumers actually exercise their rights in appropriate procedures. However, it is a prerequisite for consumers to know their rights, which are enshrined in important articles in the legislation, and to exercise them in the right way. Here, however, is the key role of the country, which must ensure the legal protection of consumers, and the role of consumer organisations, which contribute significantly to consumer protection, is very important. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the resolution on national consumer protection 2012-2017 is a good and comprehensive assessment of the situation in the area of consumer protection and that it identifies all the key problems and specific objectives and key tasks to address or mitigate the problems identified. We will therefore support the motion for a resolution in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Happy Meh on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u110	Mr Vice President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen! The resolution that is under consideration today, and I believe that it will be adopted, will in itself do nothing. It is the basis on which we need to establish that environment so that civil society can carry out its own consumption. And if we don't do it, then we've only taken one step, when we can still regulate it, and yet we won't have the things that people should have. This is because public service in this area is extremely important, of course, to inform consumers about the quality, quality, assessment and safety of products on the market, and of anything else. However, the advisory service should have an instrument to provide information to consumers, to those who are the weakest member of our society, to the elderly, to the pensioners, to the elderly, to the unemployed, to those who have extremely poor personal incomes, to tell them how and what to buy when we talk about health, about food, of course about children's products, at least around widespread consumption, because this information can be more widely present. They should also be linked to the agricultural, domestic production sector, farmers, trade, craftsmen. And here I see that this advisory service should have an extremely great opportunity to inform those who otherwise buy the cheapest products, which do not necessarily have to be the cheapest ones, and that of course they are also good enough. How do you advise? Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition has proposed some amendments that have to some extent sought to pursue desires, needs and in some ways also options. And no amendments were adopted. It is said that, once again, in a situation where we spoke very responsibly about the issue on the parental committee, we tried to influence and help improve this issue so that we could give people better information, and we did not reach an agreement. I understand that savings must also be made in this area. We've saved maybe 100, 200,000 euros. Very much. Today we have talked about the millions of sums we give at the second stage, and we have not provided the Union of Consumers with proper action. And so long as civil society in this area is not able to provide the minimum resources it needs, not for survival, not for this moment here, but for the fact that in these critical situations we can tell people who have the least what we can do, we have done too little in this area. For this reason, on behalf of the Social Democrats, we are determined to support the resolution because it allows for the continuation of work at this time. But we join those who need to do a lot of things to really get the information to consumers, so that this information is so clear that people understand it, all those VIPs and other brochures, they don't come into every household. We need to find a very simple way of informing those mothers, those pensioners and pensioners who go with the waiter every day for basic necessities to buy where everything is relatively healthy. This is our mission, ladies and gentlemen. That is why, at this moment, we will support the proposed resolution. Of course, we all look forward to taking a vital step further when we talk about those who truly deserve and need help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u111	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a discussion on the chapter and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 12 June, i.e. to the fifth chapter. I am putting forward the fifth chapter and the amendment of the SDS, DL, SLS, DeSUS and NSI. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Check-in is on. Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We have therefore concluded the debate on the amendment or have not discussed the amendment. It is, however, an amendment that will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision on the amendment of the decision on the level of funds belonging to individual political parties from the State budget in the summer of 2012. The draft decision was tabled by the Committee on Home Affairs for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to Mrs Maša Kociper, President of the Committee for a further explanation of the proposal for a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u112	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Committee on the Interior shall be held at its 5th urgent meeting, on 4 November 2016. 6. 2012 dealt with the allocation of funds intended to co-finance political parties from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia after the implementation of the 2012 budget balance. This Decision is addressed to the National Assembly. 6. tabled by the General Secretariat of the Government. On the basis of the material provided, the Committee drew up a proposal for a decision and submitted it to the National Assembly for consideration. The preparation and adoption of the decision submitted shall be based on the Political Parties Act, which, in Article 23, lays down the competence of the National Assembly to determine the amount of the appropriations, at its first meeting following the budget meeting, shall be determined after the adoption of the budget. On the basis of this provision, following the adoption of the budget rebalancing, the Government has prepared a new calculation of the allocation of funds for the co-financing of political parties for the months from July to December 2012 as a basis for the decision-making committee. The Committee has drawn up a decision, taking into account the provisions of Article 169a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which, inter alia, provides for my mother's working body as a possible proposer of the decision, so I am acting as the chair of the Committee in my capacity as a proposer. At its meeting on 23 December, the National Assembly had already adopted a decision on the amount of the funds belonging to each political party. By this Decision, the National Assembly fixed the amount of the funds belonging to the parties for 2012 in view of their success in the early elections to the National Assembly in 2011. On the basis of the 2012 budget balance adopted by the Republic of Slovenia, however, the amount of spending rights set for this purpose under budget item 4324 Co-financing of the parties to the General Secretariat of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should be adjusted to the amount of the monthly amount belonging to the individual political party. The change in the amount of the monthly amount shall be taken into account when it is paid from July to including December 2012, as follows from the decision submitted to you in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-13-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u113	Thank you very much. In the context of the general debate, the unaffiliated MEP shall have the floor. Ivan Vogrin. He's quitting. This concludes the debate. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a decision and we will take a decision on the proposal of the decision in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly tomorrow, 14. 6. In the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. Members and Members, as well as the secretaries and secretaries of the groups of Members, may I request that all materials, laptops, electronic devices and other items for the smooth course of tomorrow's meeting, as a result of tomorrow's consideration of the 15th item of the agenda, be taken from the Chamber. I am also adjourning the fourth session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 10 a.m. tomorrow.
