ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin with the continuation of the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Truda Cinderella, Dr. Andreja Črnak Maglič until 2 p.m., Janja Klasinc, Roman Jakič, Jakob Preseknik, Janez Vasle, Matjaž Zanoškar from 3 p.m. to 3 p.m., Josef Kavticnik and Bojan Starman. I say hello to everyone else. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the Act on takeovers. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr. Mag. Uroš Rožić, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u2	Madam Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament! The takeover law or the amendment of the takeover law before you today has two essential contents. The first and greatest significant change and content is to increase the takeover threshold for companies from a quarter to a third share. The key purpose of the Government's decision to propose this change is, of course, to accelerate the capital market, to make it more interesting and to revive it to some extent. There is, of course, a great deal of dilemma in public about why the government raises this threshold. As I have said, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, as a department responsible for this change, has exclusively pursued this objective in order to raise this threshold and enable the capital market to be revived. In no way was it intended to solve the inherited matters that the State had in the past dealt with by violating the threshold. It is therefore the responsibility of another ministry and will also help with an appropriate package of measures to resolve the situation in which the State is a shareholder. The amendment of this law is purely regulatory in nature. We have prepared this proposal at our Ministry. I would like to point out that this proposal is also in line with the Securities Market Agency. This is further regulated by the offence referred to in Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Act, because, as you know, the punishment of individuals is currently released. By amending paragraph 1, the Agency may also deepen individuals in the event of a breach of the threshold. However, the third substantive amendment is that, in order to ensure equal treatment of all persons who are exempted from making a takeover offer, the obligation to report to the ATVP also extends to persons who, as creditors for financial restructuring, have reached a threshold or an additional threshold. So much for the intro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask Mr Matjaž Han, President, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At its 9th urgent meeting, on 8 May 2012, the Economic Committee considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on takeovers, which was given to us by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 14th session. In addition to the Ministry of the Economy, the Legislative and Legal Service also attended the meeting of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which, with regard to the transitional provisions, pointed out the need for clearer solutions regarding the decisions already issued by the Securities Market Agency, both by legal authority and by those still pending proceedings before the Supreme Court. Qualified applicants have not tabled amendments to the law submitted within the time limit. In addition to the introductory explanation, the Secretary of State shall be mag. Rosič explained that the main purpose of the bill is to raise the threshold from 25% of the voting rights per third of the voting rights and thus revive the capital market. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that the service had no comments to the text of the articles in its opinion, but pointed out in the transitional provisions that it was necessary to specify more clearly what happened to the decisions already issued by the Securities Market Agency. The service also had a comment, which was not given in a written opinion, but was addressed orally to the representatives of the Ministry. The remark concerns the situation of the consignees who have made a takeover bid on the basis of the arrangements in force but have not exceeded a third share of the voting rights. Taking into account the said comments of the service, the representatives of the Ministry at the meeting made a proposal for an amendment to the Committee. Following the discussion, the Committee also adopted this proposal. The debate on the individual articles of the bill raised the question whether the proposed law adequately regulates the issue of state-owned companies which threaten to be deprived of voting rights. The recent case of Krka was also highlighted, where voting rights were frozen for state owners. In addition, the possible irreparable consequences of the loss of voting rights in major Slovenian companies such as the Insurance Office Triglav, Nova Kredittna banka Maribor, Zazvarovnica Sava, Aerodrome Ljubljana and others were noted. Individual members, in this case alone, we have drawn the Committee's attention to the provisions of the current law relating to coordinated action and to the procedures for verifying and determining such action. In this regard, the Social Democrats, when considering the amendment of the Law on takeovers on 25 January, also proposed an amendment to the law, which was not adopted. With regard to the establishment of a threshold of one third of the voting rights, the debate expressed the view that the threshold should be set by a percentage, drawing attention to potential problems in practice that might arise in the precise calculation of this percentage. In addition, the discussion also drew attention to the uneven conditions or to the different levels of the take-over threshold applicable to those acquirers who have made a take-over offer under the current arrangements and can obtain an additional 10 % of the securities and the take-over threshold applicable to new acquirers and set at the level of a third share of the voting rights. Following the discussion, the Committee, as already mentioned, adopted, in accordance with Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment of the Committee to Article 4 of the bill. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill and also adopted them. In view of the adoption of the amendment, the text of the amended draft law is also an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Han. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, he's got the word "magic." Stanko Stepišnik on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u6	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary, Honourable Members of Parliament! The main purpose of the bill is to raise the threshold from 25% of voting rights to a unitary share of voting rights, thereby reviving the capital market. With a view to equal treatment of all persons who are exempted from making a takeover offer, the proposed law extends the obligation to report to the Securities Market Agency also to persons who, as creditors of financial restructuring, have reached a threshold or an additional threshold by obtaining the securities of the target company, and some minor corrections are subject to this amendment. In Positive Slovenia, we agree with the proposaler that Slovenia has an unusually low threshold that could actually be raised. We will therefore not oppose the raising of the threshold, but we note that it is already another amendment to the Law on takeovers that does not touch on the issue of state-owned companies which threaten to be deprived of voting rights. As you know, the Republic of Slovenia or the country appears to be the largest owner of companies in the country. In 2011, it was owned by over 100 companies from different sectors. Direct capital investment, however, is worth €8.65 billion, Kad's assets a weak billion, and €1.2 billion, according to the latest available data from 2010. So it's just a little less than 11 billion. Let us highlight the recent case of Krka, where voting rights have been frozen to state owners, and note the possible irreparable consequences of the loss of voting rights of the state of important Slovenian companies, such as Nova Kreditna banka Maribor, Zavvarovnica Sava, Zavarovnica Triglav, Aerodrome Ljubljana, Geoplin and others. We would like to point out that it is as important for the country as it is to encourage capital markets, including the fact that a third of the share of voting rights in the target company does not solve the situation because the state owns more than the take-over threshold and will lose all voting rights due to a breach of the threshold. The loss of voting rights in companies, some of which are strategically important for the country, could be irreparable damage to state property. This would lead minority owners to manage companies with a majority share of the country, including management replacements first of all of the supervisory boards and later of the company administrations, before the coming companies. Our warnings addressed to the Government for the second time at the time of the consideration of the second amendment of the Law on takeovers in this mandate have been overheared or eliminated only by the explanation of the Secretary of State, who has agreed that the freezing of voting rights of the State is a major problem, but has stressed that the State will have to settle its market share position through the reorganisation of companies operating its assets. Once again, we would like to point out that the country's capital investment management strategy has not yet been adopted. Therefore, since this strategy has not been adopted, we have recently been particularly aware of the fact that there are no strategic investments and shares of the state in the individual company needed to safeguard the strategic objectives of the Republic of Slovenia, many controversial decisions have been made. We are therefore wondering, given how the government distanced itself from the sale or redemption of the sales option of 25 % of Slovenia's share in the General Navigation, which was sold by the Court and Kad para-state funds, although this was defined in the former Ministry of Transport's sectoral policy as a strategic investment, how the process of recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank is conducted or is not a planned operation of the ruling coalition, which will first allow the management of these companies and, at a later stage, the sale of the country's strategic investments, at a realistic price. In Positive Slovenia, we are aware that the poor liquidity of the Slovenian stock exchange – at the end of 2011 was below the 2005 level, and the 2011 SBI TOP index was also completed at the lowest levels – is to be completed as soon as possible, as this has a negative impact on the stock value of the stock exchange and thus on the value of the country's portfolio. It is logical that the higher threshold would increase the share of shares which could be traded freely in an organised market. The volume of shares below the take-over threshold would increase. In Positive Slovenia, we estimate that the Government also postpones this amendment by adopting appropriate solutions to address the problem of state-owned companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u7	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u8	Dear President, colleague, colleague! The proposed amendment law will be approved or supported by the SDS Group, on the grounds that the biggest novelty of the change is a 25 %-to-one-third increase in the threshold. We therefore estimate that Slovenia will become comparable in this field of legislation with the other Member States of the European Union, as Slovenia has so far had this threshold among the lowest. We also assess that the amendment of this law will bring about a revival of the capital market. For this reason, the SDS Group will confirm the proposed amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u9	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Every marriage has a purpose. One of the main objectives of this law is to encourage the stock market or the stock market. I highly doubt that. The bill raises the threshold from 25% of voting rights to a third of voting rights. It shall determine the obligation to increase the ATVP to persons referred to in Article 22, paragraph 3. However, the proposal for a law provides once again that the offences referred to in Article 71(1) may also be punishable by an individual. While we are not opposed to the proposed changes to the law in the Group of Social Democrats, the law continues to allow for the situation, which is most worrying to me that the minority owner will be able to manage important societies. With the majority state share, when the state loses all voting rights in companies such as the Triglav Insurance Company, as I said before, the NKBM, the Sava Insurance Company, the Ljubljana Airport and so on, we note that raising the takeover threshold to one third does not solve the situation because the state owns more than the takeover threshold and will lose all voting rights due to a breach of the takeover threshold. In our Group of Social Democrats, we regret that the government has failed to heed our warnings about the shortcomings of the existing law in the changes to the Takeover Act. The consequences of these shortcomings, however, have been most evident since the day the country lost, as Mr Stepišnik said, the voting rights in Krk. On the basis of the new law adopted, the State will get these rights back, although there remain problems with the uncontested provisions on coordinated action. Here I think it's the biggest flaw in this marriage. As a result, the State of Voting Rights will also lose its voting rights at the Triglav Insurance Office, NKBM, Sava Insurance Office, Ljubljana Aerodrome. This can cause irreparable damage to the country. I hope that the government does not have any kind of blind play here at the back, so that it will be able to sell some companies with an excuse to do so and thus fill the state budget, which will probably be necessary by the end of the year. That is why we strongly oppose it. In the Social Democrats Group, we also strongly oppose and call on the government to consider, on the basis of past experience, the experience of 2004 and 2008, the consequences that such measures can ultimately bring, and see what the situation is today when people lose jobs when there is no economic growth and when we have exhausted the best company in Slovenia. As early as January this year, the Group of Social Democrats proposed amendments to the Act on takeovers that would protect the voting rights of state-owned enterprises or in the event of a breach of the threshold, the State would lose voting rights only for the proportion of the violation of voting rights and not all rights. Although we will not oppose the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on takeovers because it saves the country, the situation at least owned by Krk, but we call on the government to prepare a law on takeovers to solve all the problems that will build up at the next assembly. I hope it is not once again a government manoeuvre when the company is exhausted and we will have to rescue these companies again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u11	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the National List, Mrs Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u12	Dear Vice President, Government Representative, colleague and colleague! Today we are considering amendments and additions to the Law on takeovers that bring our existing legislation closer to the regulations of other EU Member States. The fundamental changes to this law are not new, as the Securities Markets Agency, in a similar form and for the same reasons, has already proposed them about three years ago, but unfortunately no changes have been made. The fact is that in recent years we have seen poor liquidity in the financial instruments market in Slovenia compared to comparable European countries. One of the systemic reasons for poor liquidity was also a lower threshold than it is known in the eternal rest of the European countries, which is further strengthened by the financial crisis. The result of poor liquidity is most evident by the negative impact on the value of shares in the Ljubljana Stock Exchange, which has fallen by two-thirds in the last three years, and on the value of the portfolio of both small investors and institutional large investors, including the state. Slovenia has become uninteresting and uncompetitive for portfolio-based foreign investment, which we still need in these times of crisis. The legal obligation to tender already at 25% has in practice resulted in the fact that larger investors wishing to have an impact on certain business decisions because of the size of their stake could not have achieved this objective without taking over the whole share. A 25 %-to-third rise in the threshold will be the name of several positive effects in practice. It will directly affect the increased trade in public shares in the organised market, increase the share of available shares, increase the attractiveness of investments to invest more. As a result, we can expect greater market liquidity and higher cashability, security and price stability of investments. As a result, such a situation on the market also benefits small portfolio investors. In the Citizens' List, we are committed to adopting such legislation and measures as will send positive signals and incentives to foreign and domestic investors to invest in Slovenian companies. In addition to supporting the amendments to the Act on takeovers, we support other measures that will still need to be implemented and which will further strengthen the positive effects of the higher threshold. In particular, it is the withdrawal of a State from companies of no strategic importance, the raising of capital through public securities and, as a consequence, their inclusion in an organised securities market. The amendment of the law also reintroduces greater supervision of the Securities Market Agency as it restores the Agency's ability to control and act against an individual. In the Civil Gazette, we support measures that ensure the functioning of the rule of law and allow the competent institutions to take appropriate action in the event of possible infringements. Because of all the above facts, we will support the proposed amendment of the law in the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u13	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u14	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Secretary of State, Ministry of Labour! With this amendment of the law, we are primarily saving one of the Slovenian specialities in the European space, which is now extremely low levels of the threshold. To move away from the average in this area, it is clear from the data that only Hungary has a special threshold of less than 30% in one version, while all other countries have a higher threshold. Today, we are raising the threshold for the unitary share of voting rights in the target society and thus align it with qualified shares of information on securities acquisitions under the Banking Act. The decision is also linked to certain requirements of the Securities Market Agency and also the Financial Instruments Market Act. But there's something worth pointing out. It is essential in this law that it has a good chance of revitalising the Slovenian capital market. The latter is in developed countries, as well as in developing countries, one of the main channels for the flow of foreign capital to the country in particular. However, we all know that traffic on the Slovenian stock exchange has plummeted since 2007, the liquidity of some of Slovenia's most important securities has been alarmingly low in the European scale. In this case, the increase in the threshold is taken seriously into account for the increased activity of investors entering the market as portfolio investors. It is easier for a serious investor to enter the ownership structure without quickly approaching the threshold when they should have announced the takeover offer or already assumed responsibility for the management of the company, while this is not his interest at all. And last but not so small a solution introduced by the novel. We are creating a legal basis which will provide the basis for the Securities Market Agency in order to enable an individual to be punished for the offences arising out of Article 71(1) of the existing law. Thus, there will no longer be a reference to the collective responsibility of the whole company, which we believe will significantly reduce the infringement of the takeover legislation. As it is said, in the Slovenian People's Party Group we welcome the marriage novelty, but it does not solve all the problems and situations in companies where the country was one of the shareholders in the market and where, due to the smaller purchases of securities, it came across with the takeover legislation. We expect a solution to these situations in a short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u15	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u16	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Takeover Act. As the bill raises the threshold from a 35 per cent share of voting rights to a unitary share of voting rights, this could have a beneficial effect on the relaunching of the capital market. From the point of view of the takers, this is therefore a more favourable arrangement for them. At the same time, the rise in this share will become comparable to the thresholds in other Member States of the European Union. As regards the takeover threshold of the novelty, it also means aligning with the provisions of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments and the Banking Act. Another amendment to the Takeover Act is to redefine the legal basis for the conduct of proceedings before the Securities Market Agency in cases where they are violators of a natural person. The third set of amendments to the law adds the obligation to report to the Securities Market Agency also for persons under the third paragraph of Article 22. This is the person who, as a creditor for carrying out financial restructuring, has reached the threshold by obtaining the securities of the target company in insolvency proceedings. In this way, equal treatment shall be ensured for all persons subject to exceptions to the obligation to make a takeover offer. Members and Members of the DeSUS agree with the proposed amendments and additions to the Takeover Act, and we will therefore support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u17	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State! The main objective of the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Takeover Act is to revive the capital market by raising the threshold by 25% of the voting rights to a unitary share of voting rights. By raising the threshold to a third of the voting rights, Slovenia will become comparable to other Member States of the European Union. A rise in the threshold as a measure that could contribute to the recovery of the capital market is also proposed by the Securities Market Agency. The annual turnover on the Ljubljana Stock Exchange and the movement of the SBI TOP index show a steady trend of decline since 2007. With a target threshold of 25% of voting rights so far, Slovenia has withdrawn from the comparable Member States of the European Union with regard to the level of the threshold. Directive 2004/25/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, in the case of takeover offers of 21 par. 2004, leaves it to the Member States to determine the level of the threshold and how it is to be calculated. A 25 % increase in voting rights per third share of voting rights represents the convergence and comparability of the level of the take-over threshold with the thresholds of other EU Member States and the alignment of the threshold with the qualified share of information on securities acquisitions. The New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a new takeover law with the aim of stimulating the capital market. In addition to Hungary, Slovenia has the lowest threshold; on the other hand, it has 33% Poland and Slovakia and 30% Austria, Germany, the Czech Republic, France, Belgium, Italy and the Netherlands. However, we are aware that raising the threshold is not sufficient to result in liquidity on the Slovenian capital market in the long term. In order to revive the capital market, it is necessary to improve the macroeconomic environment, the results of businesses and the climate for foreign investment. In addition, the entry of foreign and domestic investors to improve the capital structure of enterprises and to improve corporate governance is also necessary to revive the capital market. This would relieve the share of financial expenditure in the structure of all expenditure, increase the development direction of companies entering new, potentially profitable projects, thereby increasing the market value of capital owners. In Nova Slovenija we strive to make the Slovenian economy competitive and attractive for domestic and foreign investors, attractive for employment and development, both social and personal. Only with a healthy economy will we be able to join countries with a healthy social upgrade. The New Law on takeovers means a small step, but it is in the right direction. That is why the New Slovenia Group predicts its support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. Continue or move on to 3. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and amendments to the law on the protection of the right to be tried without undue delay. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. As I do not see any representatives or ministers or relevant other representatives present in the Chamber, we will continue to present the report of the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Government, which, as a working body, addressed this proposal. Here you go, Mrs. Eva Irgle, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and honourable Members! At its 2nd meeting, on 26 April 2012, the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement without undue delay submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. The representative of the proposer, the Minister for Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, Dr. Senko Plicanič, explained in the introduction and said that the proposed amendment proposed a means of enforcing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. He also said that the other proposed solutions concerned in particular a clearer regulation of procedural rights and strengthening the situation of parties to judicial proceedings which enforce alleged infringements of the right to a trial without undue delay or strengthening the duties of the Presidents of the courts in the field of judicial administration. The obligation of the courts to inform the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration is further strengthened. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, Mrs Katarina Kralj, said that most of the comments in the written opinion were taken into account in the amendments proposed by the coalition parliamentary groups for adoption by the Committee. It reiterated its comment on Article 4, which establishes a new database of personal data managed by the Ministry. It shall process personal and other data on supervisory complaints lodged with the Ministry, including the personal name of the competent judge in the case of favourable supervisory complaints. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, such a provision is legally and systemically controversial, and is also partly inconsistent with Article 72 of the Judicial Service Act, which regulates the personal records of judges administered by the Ministry. The proposed arrangement means that the Ministry of Supervisory Complaints in relation to the personal name of the judge will maintain two separate records, including only the information on the complaints lodged for the individual judge, and the new record will record the information on favourable supervisory complaints before the individual judge, only those submitted to the Ministry. The representative of the State Council, State Councillor Bogomir Vnučec, presented the written opinion of the State Council, which supports the proposed amendments. In the debate on Article 4 of the draft law, a member of the Committee expressed doubts as to the completion of the regulation of new records of supervisory complaints at the Ministry, as it would not be complete, but would contain the personal names of the competent judges only in the case of favourable supervisory complaints lodged with the Ministry. The Committee then adopted its amendments to Articles 3, 4, 5 and 6. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is also an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u21	Thank you very much. In the meantime, I welcome Minister Senko Plitčanič, but we will continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Ms Eva Irgle, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that again. Dear Vice President, Your Honor Minister! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement without undue delay was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for adoption by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a law. The draft law is proposed primarily for the purpose of fulfilling the obligations laid down in the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In that decision, the Constitutional Court found a discrepancy between Article 25 of the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement without undue delay with Article 15, paragraph 4, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which deals with the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and the consequences of their infringements relating to Article 23, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of the right to be tried without undue delay. Following a decision of the Constitutional Court, it is constitutionally inconsistent that that law does not also regulate the special situation and rights of former parties to judicial proceedings, to which the violation of the right to a trial without undue delay in proceedings before the courts of the Republic of Slovenia ceased before 1 January 2007, and until that time they did not bring an action and also a request for a fair settlement to the European Court of Human Rights, and because of the alleged violation of the constitutional right to a trial without undue delay, they brought an action against the State before the courts with the general jurisdiction of the Republic of Slovenia. The Lukend project, which was created under the Ministry of Minister Lovr Šturm, has certainly achieved certain results, which have led to at least a slight reduction in the number of judicial backlogs, but surely all of us sitting here today in this Chamber are aware that there is still insufficient in this area. This is also why more careful supervision of the work of the judiciary by the Ministry of Justice is being exercised within this new law. However, this is by no means an intervention in another branch of government, but it is simply a matter of transparency and efficiency in the functioning of the courts and judges in the public interest. The creation of additional records at the Ministry of Justice means, in particular, a more detailed review of whether the work has been carried out within the prescribed time limit. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will support the proposal for a new law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u23	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u24	Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Government has tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Rights to Judgement without undue delay. The government gives three reasons why the law needs to be amended and supplemented. The first reason is the fulfilment of the obligations set out in the Constitutional Court decision of the Republic of Slovenia, in which the Constitutional Court found a non-compliance with Article 25 of the Law on the Protection of the Rights to Judgement, without undue delay, with Article 15, paragraph 4, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which deals with the judicial protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and eliminates the consequences of their infringements in relation to Article 23, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Slovenia, is the right to be tried without undue delay. Following a decision of the Constitutional Court, it is constitutionally inconsistent that the basic law does not also govern the special situation and rights of former parties to judicial proceedings, to which the violation of the right to a trial without undue delay in proceedings before the courts of the Republic of Slovenia ceased before 1. 1. However, until then, no complaints and no requests for a fair settlement have been lodged with the European Court of Human Rights, but due to a alleged violation of the constitutional right to a trial without undue delay, they have brought an action against the State before the courts of the general jurisdiction of the Republic of Slovenia. The second reason is to further strengthen the position of the parties to judicial proceedings which enforce alleged infringements of the rights of trial without undue delay and at the same time to strengthen the duties of the Presidents of the courts in the field of judicial administration. The third reason is to strengthen the powers of the judiciary, the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration, so that indirect supervision of the Ministry as part of the executive branch would be somewhat more effective in relation to the independent judiciary, but still in accordance with the fundamental constitutional principle of the division of power. It is said that further implementation of the principle of brakes and balance as part of the division of power. For a third reason, however, there remains an unanswered question as to why a new database of personal data managed by the Ministry is being established, despite the fact that they have been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly as well as by the Council of Justice, which does not support these changes. However, since the text of the bill improves slightly with the amendments adopted on the home working body, we will support the bill by Members and Members of the Social Democrats, especially because we have always advocated that the found non-compliance with the Constitution be resolved as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u25	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National List of Mags. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u26	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all present! The Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement, without undue delay from 2006, is one of the most effective laws of the Republic of Slovenia which regulate the way in which the protection of human rights is exercised. This claim can be supported by the fact that Slovenia was convicted before the European Court of Human Rights by 2011 in 220 cases, of which there were some 210 convictions, for infringements of the right to a trial within a reasonable time. The amount of compensation awarded is high. Slovenia has already had to pay some more than €6 million from this title. The number of cases in which the complainants are suing Slovenia for infringement of that right is no longer increasing in recent years. And the reason for this is also in the adoption of the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement without undue delay, which has been applicable since January 2007. Among other things, it was adopted on the basis of a well-known judgment in the case of Lukend v. Slovenia, in which it was decided that there was no effective legal remedy in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of the Convention's right to a trial within a reasonable time. Members of the Civil Code will be supported by amendments and additions to the Act on the grounds that they are primarily the removal of the illegal legal void in which the legislator, when adopting amendments and supplementing this Act in 2009, has deliberately left an open field for judicial review, since, in the event of those amendments, it was clearly stated that this issue would have to be resolved in the overall legal order in the Republic of Slovenia. Amendments and additions to the law further strengthen the provisions of the current law in favour of parties to judicial proceedings and improve the possibility of procedural decisions by the Presidents of the Courts on a second degree remedy. The powers of the judiciary, the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration are also strengthened. The proposed amendments and additions actually relieve the European Court of Human Rights of its decision on requests from parties from the Republic of Slovenia. However, in the framework of friendly settlement, the Republic of Slovenia, the State Attorney's Office, can pay lower compensation for non-profit damage than would be judged by the European Court of Human Rights. Since we believe that the proposed amendments and amendments to the law are prepared in a direction that benefits the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in judicial proceedings, we will support the members of the Civil Gazette of amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u27	Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mrs Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u28	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. Your Honor! The applicable law on the protection of the right to a trial without undue delay primarily constitutes the enforcement of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. It also lays down which funds may be used against lengthy judicial proceedings, which in particular means the enforcement of the first paragraph of Article 23 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 6(1) of the European Convention on Human Rights. The amendment proposes the enforcement of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia establishing the non-compliance of Article 25 of the current law with Article 15, paragraph 4, of the Constitution, since the law does not also regulate the special situation of former parties to judicial proceedings, to which the violation of the right to a trial without undue delay in proceedings before the Court of the Republic of Slovenia ceased before 1 January 2007, and until then they have not lodged a complaint with the European Court of Human Rights. The rest are less difficult amendments and additions that do not change the concept of an existing law. They refer to greater assistance to the parties to judicial proceedings, the application of the law, the strengthening of Presidential decision-making and the strengthening of the supervisory mechanism under the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. As far as the latter is concerned, in our view, transparency and efficiency in the functioning of the courts are certainly in the public interest. We probably all agree that if the court does not act within a certain period of time or if it is found that a judge does not act as he should by law, then the Ministry, in our opinion, has the right to try to do so with certain mechanisms, which does not mean that it interferes with any jurisdiction and autonomy of the courts. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we also partly agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that, from a legal point of view, all data on supervisory complaints conducted with respect to an individual judge should be kept only in the personal records of the judge under the Judicial Service Act, as well as in the decisions on supervisory complaints which will now be partially followed by this new record. As they say in the Legislative and Legal Service, we would also ensure that the data are complete or that all the information on favourable supervisory complaints is kept in this record, regardless of where they were filed. As the explanation of the bill gives rise to the Government's awareness that such an arrangement, such as it is now, is partial and temporary and that the first amendment of the Judicial Service Act will also have to be properly regulated, the proposed amendment of the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement will be supported in the Slovenian People's Party's Group without undue delay.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u29	On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u30	Dear Minister, members of the Government, Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, everyone, welcome! The law on the protection of the right to a trial without undue delay shall, in the first instance, ensure a designated constitutional right by means of an expedited remedy whereby, at the time of the occurrence of an alleged infringement, the party may have an effective effect on the fact that the proceedings would not last unreasonablely long. If, however, the parties are not granted the right to a trial without undue delay, the law gives them the possibility that, when certain assumptions are met due to an infringement in an already completed court procedure, they will enjoy a fair compensation, including in the form of a cash compensation for non-profit damage. The judgment of the European Court of Justice in the Lukend case of October 2005 was crucial for the adoption of this law in 2006. This law does not mean the complete elimination of the problem of judicial backlogs in the Republic of Slovenia, but it is part of the Lukend programme, which aims to eliminate judicial backlogs. However, in order to be again cut after the amendment of the law, we were ordered by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which already found constitutional non-compliance in 2010. In fact, the legislature's protection of this right has been regulated by law, which is from 1. 1. 2007 further. Even though certain situations have been settled in the transitional provision, these are situations where the infringement of the right to a trial has ceased without undue delay before 2007, since the latter are intended to apply the law, but there are no cases where the infringement of that right ceased before 1. 1. However, before that date, the party did not submit a request for fair satisfaction to the European Court of Human Rights, but decided that the judicial protection of this right would be exercised before domestic courts. The DeSUS Group follows the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and we will therefore support the amendment in this part. In doing so, I should also like to express my support for the other proposed amendments, since they are without prejudice to the situation and protection of the rights of the parties and their amendment requires experience in the implementation of the law in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u31	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u32	Dear President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The New Slovenia Group will support the amendment of the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement without undue delay. That amendment shall mean, to a large extent, the fulfilment of the obligations laid down in the Constitutional Court decision of 18 July 2016. 3. 2010 which established the non-compliance of Article 25 of the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement without undue delay and Article 15, paragraph 4, of the Constitution of Slovenia. This obligation is to be fulfilled by the National Assembly. For those parties who have been violated the right to a trial without undue delay before 1. 1. 2007, it is said before this law is enforced, that the provisions of the existing law apply to the criteria and the level of compensation. An important innovation introduced by the amendment is the strengthening of the position of the parties in the proceedings, the greater responsibility of the Presidents of the Courts and the greater competence of the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration of the Courts in relation to the right of the parties to a trial without undue delay. When preparing my position, I have come across information that our country has an enormous number of judges, namely 55 per 100,000 inhabitants, in which, for example, Austria has more than once less than 22 in comparison, not to mention, of course, the UK, which has even fewer than 3 judges per 100,000 inhabitants. Despite such a large number of judges, our justice is unable to guarantee a trial within a reasonable time. In doing so, let me point out that, according to the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, three years is considered a reasonable deadline for the completion of the first stage procedure. From the 2010 State Defence Report, I have come to understand that, although the number of claims for damages for infringement of the rights of trial is lower within a reasonable period than in the year before, in 2010. However, there were still 318 such claims, which, at least for me, was an incredible number in relation to the human resources potentials I mentioned. It is clear that the existing control mechanisms after the current law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period are not sufficient and that something must be done in this direction. The keeping of records of favourable supervisory complaints with the name of individual judge does not seem disputed to us and is not directed towards justice in general, as some opposition Members have tried to do on the committee responsible. However, it allows the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration to propose to the President of the Court or to a direct higher court the introduction of official supervision over judges who do not work or work too little. It is clear that the courts within themselves do not carry out or carry out the legal possibilities available in respect of official controls in a consistent manner. As mentioned above, the New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement without undue delay.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u33	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, Mrs Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u34	Dear, good-bye! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Rights to Judgement without undue delay removes the disagreement established by the Constitutional Court, which my colleagues have already discussed thoroughly before me, so that they would not lose their say on this non-conformity. Since the deadline for the elimination of non-compliance has already expired, in Positive Slovenia we are also pleased that this area is now properly regulated and is a respected decision of the Constitutional Court. In the debate on the home working body, we drew the attention of the Members of Positive Slovenia in particular to the proposed amendment to the current 14th Article, which proposes the establishment of a new set of personal data of the Ministry, which was expressed by both the Judicial Council and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. We are pleased that, with the amendment adopted on the home labour body, the considerations of interference with the constitutional principle of the division of power have fallen away, as those parts of the provision that were inconsistent with the Judicial Service Act have been deleted. However, the single record of the personal data of the judges remains a dilemma. In Positive Slovenia, we believe that data on supervisory complaints conducted with respect to a judge should be kept in a single record, in a record maintained under the Judicial Service Act. A single personal record would ensure that this data is indeed complete. There is now a fear that incomplete data will be kept in the record, namely only information on favourable supervisory complaints lodged with the Ministry, but not on supervisory complaints which were not favourable to them, and on supervisory complaints lodged specifically in court. Given the Ministry's powers under the current legislation, the purpose of the current record is also questionable. Given that it is possible to understand from the explanation of the proposal that the competent ministry is also aware of the problem of partial regulation and that it is a temporary arrangement, in Positive Slovenia, as well as colleagues before us, we urge that the Ministry in the first novel of the Law on Courts regulate this area accordingly. At the time of the adoption of this proposal, we would also like to point out in Positive Slovenia that we are adopting the law at the same time as the 2012 balance under consideration, which significantly clarifies the funds of the courts, to the extent that their effective functioning is questioned. At the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, it is recalled that the reduction of funds in the functioning of the judiciary may lead to problems that will have serious consequences mainly in the reduction of the number of cases dealt with and thus resolved, as well as in the slower resolution of cases, which may also result in the compensation of the State, which we are solving with the present law. In view of the fact that citizens as one of the country's biggest problems are the very failure of the rule of law, the effective functioning of justice should be the fundamental objective of the State and adequately supported by material means. Regardless of what we say in Positive Slovenia, in order to comply with the Constitutional Court decision, we will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Before we proceed, I would like to convey to you the Minister's apology, who unfortunately missed a minute to complete the explanation of the bill by the Government. Next time, they'll make sure that representatives are here at the right time. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to move on to 4. At the end of the day, it's a bill on amendments to the value added tax. The draft law was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Aleš Zivkovic, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Allow me to present briefly the proposal for a law amending the Value Added Tax Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly. The draft law removes the regime whereby taxable persons identified for VAT in Slovenia are limited in the exercise of the right to deduct VAT and must increase their tax liability if they have applied, and the invoices for goods delivered or services provided to the supplier have not been paid or entered into the compulsory netting system within the prescribed period. These taxpayers shall be subsequently recognised as entitled to deduct VAT if and when they pay the invoices to suppliers. Such arrangements have been applied in Slovenia since 16 March 2011, when the Law on Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act was enacted, the basic objective of which was to introduce a measure which would encourage timely payment of invoices and have an impact on reducing delays in payments between taxable persons who charge and pay VAT. The measure provided support for other measures to strengthen payment discipline, which are regulated by the Law on the Prevention of Late Payments. The abolition or restriction of the right to deduct VAT in unpaid accounts is in line with the position of the European Commission, taken in an official reminder received by Slovenia in 2012, contrary to the obligation under the VAT Directive, whereby the right to deduct VAT arises when the VAT obligation arises, i.e. when the invoice is issued or the goods are delivered. The Directive does not provide for specific solutions for the enforcement of VAT deductions in the event of a breach of payment deadlines. The European Commission has given priority to respecting the principle of non-restriction of VAT in the assessment of whether it is more important to respect non-restriction of VAT deduction or to allow the use of tax mechanisms to ensure payment non-discipline. Taking into account the position of the European Commission, the Government has drawn up a proposal for a law repealing the provisions of the value added tax law by limiting the right to deduct VAT in unpaid accounts, as currently included in its 66.a. It is envisaged that the proposed amendment to the Value Added Tax Act would enter into force immediately or the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u37	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body and the Chairman of the mag has the floor to present the report of the Committee. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Vice President, Minister, Secretary of State! At its third meeting on 3 May, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law amending the Law on Value Added Tax after a reduced procedure. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and with a legislative technical aspect and had no comments on it. No amendments have been tabled to this law. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the Secretary of State, as a representative of the law's proposers, gave a more detailed presentation of the purpose of the law and the proposed solutions. He said that the aim of the proposed law was to respond to the Commission's statements and to remedy the discrepancies between the national legislation governing the system of charging and paying value added tax and the rules of the European Union in that area by deleting Article 66a. The bill thus removes the restriction on the right to deduct value added tax in cases where a taxable person identified for VAT purposes in Slovenia does not pay the bill or only partially or when the taxable person does not include unpaid accounts in the system of compulsory netting. In the context of the explanation of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, her representative stressed the time limit for the application of deductions and the time limit for the implementation of the law, since the normal time limit is 15 days and the law enters into force here the following day after publication. The discussion of the members and members of the Committee highlighted the fact that the regime, which was not in line with the EU Directive, was adopted in spring 2011. The question was also what are the economic financial effects of this decision, and several members also expressed their wish to carefully analyse the financial implications of the decision, both for the tax authority and for the taxpayers and, of course, those responsible for the situation. Following a brief discussion on the draft law on the labour force, no amendments were adopted and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposed to the National Assembly that the draft law amending the Law on Value Added Tax should be adopted in the text submitted after the reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matevž Frangež on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u40	Respected and respected! The Government repeals the solutions of the previous value added tax law, the basic objectives of which were to impose a restriction on the right to value-added tax in unpaid invoices in conditions where the Slovenian economy is faced with payment non-discipline and a large amount of payments between taxpayers, despite the delivery of goods or services performed, are carried out later, as agreed. Thus, the aim was to eliminate delays in the payment of invoices and to encourage debtors to report cash obligations — compulsory multi-party netting, in accordance with the Law on the Prevention of Late Payments, which could have an impact on improving payment discipline between taxpayers. On the basis of amendments to the Value Added Tax Act, the alleged discrepancy between the national legislation governing the VAT accounting and payment system and the European Union rules in this area is eliminated. The bill removes the restriction on the right to deduct VAT in cases where a taxable person is identified for the purposes of value added tax in Slovenia to the supplier within the time limit laid down in the law governing the prevention of late payments does not pay the bill or pay it only in part or as a taxable person of unpaid accounts does not include it in the system of compulsory netting under the Late Payments Act. Social Democrats will not oppose this law, but in any case we expect the Government to prepare other appropriate instruments to prevent payment non-discipline. In this area, there is still no change from the Government in terms of dealing with payment non-discipline, but it should be stressed that the previous government has prepared legislative changes in its previous mandate, possibly waiting for an in-depth debate in this national assembly. If the Government intends to resolve payment non-discipline by actually allowing business to collapse, then we can expect more bankruptcy, greater unemployment and even greater problems than the austerity measures themselves will cause. In the Social Democrats, we also note that the Government has unfortunately not yet taken any steps to increase the liquidity of the economy, and there are also no visible shifts in the area of reducing evasion in the area of value added tax. Given the fact that the number of tax inspectors is declining, it will be even more difficult to detect possible fraud. The current measure is provided for at least as a penalty for non-discipline of payments, but there is no measure which would adequately compensate for that measure. We therefore expect the Government to help prevent payment non-discipline with additional instruments and start the "payability" of the Slovenian economy. As mentioned earlier, the Social Democrats will not oppose the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u41	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u42	Dear colleagues, colleagues, the Prime Minister and representatives of the Government, unfortunately, there is not. [[...]] The proposed law before us today removes the discrepancy between the national legislation governing the VAT accounting and payment system and EU rules in this area. A regulation was adopted in March of the previous year, which was not in line with the European Union Directive, Article 26th was introduced, and this non-compliance is now being resolved. A major or major change is the abolition of the restriction on the right to deduct VAT in cases where a taxable person identified for VAT purposes in Slovenia does not pay the bill to suppliers within the time limit laid down by the law governing the prevention of late payment. At the end of February this year, the European Commission issued an official notice to Slovenia in which the main statement was intended to violate the principle of neutrality by abolishing or restricting the right to deduct VAT in cases where the taxable person has been identified for VAT purposes in Slovenia, within the time limit set by the law governing the prevention of late payments, the account does not pay or pay only in part. For the Commission has found and pointed out that Slovenia has not fulfilled its obligations imposed by the Council Directive with the aforementioned Article. For all of this we will support the law in the Group of the People's List. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u43	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Roman Žveglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u44	Good day to you all! I must say that the solution that has been in force so far has been a personal one and also a considerable number of value added tax debtors, particularly those who are subcontractors in larger companies. However, there is clearly no such way as was introduced last year by amending the law and introducing Article 66.a in the European Union. The amendments adopted last year are contrary to the directive and contrary to the principle of neutrality, which is the fundamental principle of the value added tax system. The Republic of Slovenia does not appear to be sovereign in the tax area either. Of course, it is necessary to immediately adopt other mechanisms to promote or ensure payment discipline or non-discipline for punishing debtors for non-payment. Although it sounds like it, it is not so easy to ensure it and immediately introduce it overnight in a time of crisis when the cash flow stopped. In view of the crisis, many companies are in difficulty with VAT obligations because they do not receive payments for their products and services, as they cannot pay their own liabilities and accounts. Members of the Slovenian People's Party hope that we will proceed as soon as possible with measures to promote the new law of the Slovenian economy, when we have finally succeeded in taking austerity measures by adopting the Law on the Balance of Public Finances. In view of the results, the net did not meet the expectations, and it is therefore necessary to reconsider this, as the State Council also points out in its positive opinion on this law. The Members of the Slovenian People's Party will therefore vote in favour of amending the law and support the deletion of Article 66a of the law by urgent procedure, in order to correct what was incorrectly introduced and to listen to the European Union Commission's finding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u45	Thank you. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Maria Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u46	Good day to you, and good bye to you all! The amendment of the Value Added Tax Act means the reaction of the Republic of Slovenia to the statements of the European Union or the Commission, which found that our last year's provisions adopted in Article 66a of the Law were inconsistent with European regulations in this field. The proposal thus removes the restriction on the right to deduct value added tax in cases where the taxable person does not pay the bill or only partially pay it, within the time limit set by the law governing the prevention of late payments, or where the taxable person does not include unpaid invoices in the system of compulsory netting under the Law on the Prevention of Late Payments. The fundamental objective of introducing a restriction on the right to deduct value added tax in unpaid accounts in conditions where the Slovenian economy is faced with payment non-discipline and many payments between taxpayers are made in spite of the delivery of goods or services carried out later than agreed, was to remove delays in payment of invoices and to encourage debtors to manage monetary liabilities in the compulsory multi-party netting. This could contribute to improving payment discipline between VAT debtors in Slovenia. This objective was therefore meaningful, but it is clearly inconsistent with the European Value Added Tax Directive and we need to turn it into a follow-up. We will support the DeSUS Group in spite of all the changes in the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u47	Thank you. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! The essential part of the law amending the Value Added Tax Act is only one article, which provides that in the current value added tax law, Article 66a is deleted. This article added the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government when it adopted the amendment to the Value Added Tax Act on 4 March last year. At that time, in addition to Article 66a, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly strongly pointed out the dangerous work of the legislator, reading: the coalitions at the time. As a result of the proposed VAT law at the time, the regulation of the taxpayer's right to deduct value added tax is conditioned by its payment to the supplier. Therefore, the Legislative and Legal Service has drawn attention to the established case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union with specific cases. In accordance with settled case-law, the right to deduct as provided for in Article 17 and the following Sixth Directive is an integral part of the VAT mechanism and must not be limited in principle. It may be applied immediately for all taxes relating to entry transactions. Any limitation on the right to deduct VAT affects the amount of the tax burden and must be applied equally in all Member States. Derogations are therefore permitted only in cases expressly provided for in the Sixth Directive. The VAT system is the European tax system. In the New Slovenia Group, we are not dealing with the question of whether it was a mistake of professional nature or political pressure in connection with the amendment of the VAT law on 4 March 2011, but we are wondering how much cost has been incurred by the taxpayers, who will reimburse the taxpayers and, above all, we insist that in this country, we have to start talking with the names and surnames of those who have intended to abuse the legal order of the European Union, thinking that it is as bad as Slovenia. I agreed with the debate on mags on the work of my mother's body, on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Andrej Širclja and Aloyzi Potočnik, who have clearly pointed out the enormous problems that law-makers have in the event that solutions are not conceived or even inconsistent with the European legal order. This is caused by frequent amendments to laws that consequently require frequent changes in business applications. All of this makes our economy uncompetitive. On 28 February Slovenia received a slap-off – an official reminder in which the European Commission took the view that the Republic of Slovenia, by abolishing or limiting the right to deduct VAT in cases where a taxable person has been identified for VAT purposes in Slovenia, has failed to fulfil its obligations under Article 167 of Council Directive 2006/112/EC by means of a law governing the prevention of late payment, payment or payment of VAT. The Commission’s fundamental argument is that Article 66a of the Value Added Tax Act violates the principle of neutrality. The New Slovenia Group will support the amendment of the Value Added Tax Act, finding that this time it also proved that Slovenia's decision to join the European Union was a good decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u49	Thank you. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Aloj Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u50	Your Honor! The reasons why we accept amendments to the Value Added Tax Act do not apply today, at the beginning of 2011. At that time, in the economy, payment discipline or non-discipline struck with full force, in the flood of accounts that had not been paid within the statutory deadline and due to pressure from affected groups, particularly subcontractors, the State Election has therefore adopted the Law on Prevention of Delays in Payments, which has returned a compulsory multilateral net to the financial floor. In parallel, it also applied to restrictions on the right to deduct value added tax in invoices, which are simplified, not settled within the time limit. The solution, known as Article 66a, seemed relatively controversial at the time, but expectations of improving the really critical payment disciplines of taxpayers outweighed. However, in less than a year, the European Commission has notified Slovenia by formal notice that this decision is on broken legs and is not in accordance with the Council Directive. As the main argument, it stated that Article 66a infringes the principle of tax neutrality. However, neutral tax is the most common way to understand a tax that equally burdens the tax base, such as a tax that taxes all types of goods or services at the same rate. Whether this change will have a significant impact, I think of the debilitating impact, on payment discipline, is risky to assess. However, it is clear that the administrative obligations of the debtors as well as the supervisory burdens of the tax authority will definitely be reduced. This is good, and in this regard, the Home Committee has also taken the view that administrative simplicity and, above all, transparency are key principles of a good tax system. Above all, it is not least the power to measure and judge them from the point of view of responsibility. The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia takes this opportunity to call on the Government or the Ministry of Finance to carry out an assessment of the direct costs of the tax administration in connection with the frequent changes in tax regulations, namely salaries, these investments in the system, as well as indirect costs of taxpayers they have by fulfilling their tax obligations. In particular, I have in mind the costs of maintaining information and accounting systems, the costs of tax advisers, lawyers, notaries, various professional education, and, last but not least, stored documentation. Nor do we find it controversial to talk about immoral taxes that are reportedly hidden in the price, which of course is not true. Each account shall be clearly marked and visible. What is truly hidden from the eyes and will never be found in the accounts is income, contributions, income taxes, property, compensation for the use of building land, and so on. So much for occasional contributions to tax culture. By the way, the tax we are considering today represents around 30% of all taxes in developed countries, and we are financing everything we have talked about in the last few days; we are funding education, science, social benefits and, last but not least, the people we are sitting here. And it is highly likely that this tax will also be called rapid consolidation between the life zones. The proposed amendments to the law will be supported by the Positive Slovenia Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u51	Thank you. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mrs Patricia Šulin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u52	President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! Slovenia received an official notice on 28 February this year in which the European Commission took the view that the Republic of Slovenia, by abolishing or restricting the right to deduct VAT in cases where a taxable person identified for VAT purposes in Slovenia, has failed to comply with its obligations under the Council Directive by arguing that Article 66a of the Added Value Tax Act violates the principle of neutrality by way of provision 66a of the Added Value Tax Act. Such an arrangement, for which we received a reminder from the European Union, was adopted on the proposal of the former Minister of Finance, Dr. Franz Križanič. Even then, tax experts and the Legal and Legislative Service have made it clear that such an arrangement is contrary to the Directive of the European Union, but their warnings by the then Financial Ministry and the Minister have been arrogantly rejected. It turned out that our warnings, which we had given as the opposition at the time, were correct, were that they were hand-track measures to fill the state treasury with the envisaged sanctioning system at the expense of the economy. Regrettably, this measure was one of the many non-professional, inefficient and harmful measures introduced by the former Minister of Finance, Dr. Franc Križanič, which is why our economy is in such poor condition, our country is so indebted. For the sake of the said and justified former Minister of Finance, Dr. Franz Križanič, we call for responsibility. The draft law repeals Article 66a of the Value Added Tax Act and thus adversely affects the economy under the responsibility of the former Minister of Finance, Dr. Franz the Crusader. The abolition of Article 66a of the Value Added Tax Act will also reduce the administrative burden on the tax authority, the administrative and financial burden on taxable persons who do not settle accounts within the agreed or statutory deadline. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposal for a law amending the Value Added Tax Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u53	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment to the law was adopted at the home labour body, no amendments could be proposed for the meeting of the National Assembly, so I am concluding a second reading of the bill. We will decide on the law today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to move on to 5. Point, that's a second-hand proposal for a law on media supplementation. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Mr France Jurša. I ask Mr Jurša or the proposer if they wish to further explain the proposal. Please, Mr. Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The Group of Members and Members, we are from the types of SDS, New Slovenia and DeSUS, by submitting an addition to Article 114a, we want to eliminate discrimination between radio and television programmes with a status of special importance. The programme content prepared by the media with special significance status is a complement to the public service, which cannot cover all events in Slovenia. The current legal regime allows for the free hire of broadcasters only for radio programmes with a status of special importance, while for television programmes this right ended with the switch to digital broadcasting, which happened at the end of 2010. By moving to digital broadcasting, these media have therefore lost their rights. They were placed in an uneven position because they lost the right at the moment to rent the broadcasters free of charge, which they also had at the time of the analogue broadcast. Issuers with a status of special importance gained this status on the basis of programming content and public interest, not due to broadcasting technology. Since the exchange of technology must not be the cause of the loss of rights guaranteed by law, the proposal to supplement the law thus eliminates the inequality in the treatment of the analogue and digital mode of terrestrial surrender. Article 114a, which therefore complements the existing Media Act, allows broadcasters of programmes which have a recognised status of special importance to rent RTV broadcasters free of charge also for digital broadcasting. After this addition, the publishers of these programmes will pay RTV Slovenia a proportional share of the depreciation and maintenance costs resulting from the dissemination of multiplex for public broadcasting. In addition, let me say that the text of the proposed new 114th Article is in line with all associations of local radio and television media of particular importance, as well as with RTV Slovenia, which participated in drafting the text of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u55	Thank you. The draft law was addressed by the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth. In order to present the report to the committee, I give the floor to the mags. Branku Grimes, chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u56	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! The Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth addressed the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Media at its 2nd regular session on 24 April 2012. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, a proposal for an amendment to the Committee was prepared and we also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which supported the proposal of the law. It noted the same problem on which the proposal by the applicant was also based, namely that the current Media Act abolished the right to free broadcasting to broadcasters of television programmes of particular importance and introduced discrimination between radio and TV programmes of special importance. The government, on a proposal from the law, had no significant concerns. After a relatively extensive discussion, two amendments were adopted, namely a new Article 1 and an additional Article 1a, and we propose the approved text in the form submitted to the National Assembly for adoption.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u57	Thank you. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Alexander Zorn to present the opinion of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members! The proposal for a law supplementing the Media Law, B, is supplemented by Article 114a of the Media Act, which deals with the scope of the obligation to disseminate programmes by operators or so-called must-carry. The obligation to disseminate programmes by operators is governed by the Universal Service Directive and user rights relating to electronic communications networks and services. In this regard, the government assesses that the regulation in the proposal for a media law is within the scope of the possibility afforded by the Directive to Member States in its transposition. However, Member States were obliged to transpose the latest amendments to this Directive into their legal order by 25 at the latest. 5. 2011 and, at the latest, within one year of that date, review the transfer obligations. In this context, the Government considers that the regulation in the draft law, which provides for a timely review of the transfer obligation, is welcome. The content of the bill refers to the decision on two obligations imposed on Radiotelevision Slovenia as a multiplex operator for public broadcasting, that is, multiplex A. First time. Obligations of free extended programmes with a status of special importance if there are free multiplex A capabilities after its possession with Radiotelevision of Slovenia programmes, up to a maximum of 10% of the multiple A capacity in each region. Another time. The obligation to distribute programmes free of charge to those broadcasters who, under the Digital Broadcasting Act, are holders of a decision on the allocation of radio frequencies for their own multiplex and who, at remote radiotelevision points with their own equipment, extend programmes with a status of special importance. The bill eliminates legal inconsistencies, as the current media law has, on the one hand, set a special status in the public interest, that is, the status of the programme of particular importance, and for the preparation of their programme content, which is in the public interest, also provided for state aid. On the other hand, by moving to digital terrestrial broadcasting, TV broadcasters were of particular importance, taking away practically the only benefit they had under law, thereby denying the very status of the programme of special importance. The bill also further eliminates discrimination between radio and television programmes with a status of special importance, as radio programmes, unlike television broadcasting, have not yet had an effect through terrestrial digital network operators, as these programmes are still spreading exclusively radio-fuse, that is, via terrestrial analogue networks. Since the current media law provides for the same conditions and obligations for both radio and television programmes, it is thus unacceptable or discriminatory that the law provides less rights for television broadcasters. Since the proposal for a law is properly and appropriately transposed by the Universal Service Directive and the rights of users in relation to electronic communications, networks and services, which, by means of the proposed regulation, eliminates discrimination between radio and television programmes with a status of special importance in the legal definition of the status of the programme, the Government fully supports the proposed regulation in the amendment to the Media Act, B. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u59	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u60	Dear President, colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! By supplementing Article 114a of the Media Act, the draft law, whose contents are fully covered by Article 1, should regulate the obligation and conditions for the transmission of television and radio programmes with the status of special importance granted by Radiotelevision Slovenia. As shown in the recital above, the aim of the proposed solution is to eliminate the inconsistencies introduced in 2006, which has taken particular importance from broadcasters of television programmes the right to free use of Radiotelevision Slovenia’s broadcasting infrastructure. With the transition to terrestrial digital broadcasting, the provisions of Article 112 of the current law have ceased to apply to broadcasters of television programmes of special importance and they themselves have taken on the high costs of digital dissemination of their programmes. The proposed law seeks to eliminate the inequality in the treatment of the analogue and digital mode of terrestrial broadcasting, which has been established by the current regime by introducing the so-called must-carry broadcast, as well as the inequality between radio and television programmes with a status of special importance. However, such justification does not convince the applicants. Members and Members of the National Gazette have serious problems with this novel. It is not possible to avoid the sense that it is a legal solution to ad persons aimed at solving just a few precisely defined companies, which broadcast within their TV programmes also the content of particular importance for the regional environment and feast on the paying multiplex RTV Slovenia. It is an economic company which, together today, owes RTV Slovenia close to EUR 390 000 and has completely ceased to pay its obligations since spring 2011, with regular settlement from 1. 12. 2009 These are companies that take up 7,5 % of multiplex A and broadcast on the whole of Slovenia, although their coverage by other means would certainly be 80%. Their programmes have poor ratings and are duplicating themselves with regional programmes, which are already provided by the public institution RTV Slovenia. Directive 2009/136/EC, Article 31, refers to the must-carry obligations of Member States' public authorities to ensure that they provide access to other network users on the basis of reasonable obligations. Such reasonable obligations shall be imposed only if they are necessary to meet the objectives in the general interest. Let us recall that the price thus constructed in a particular case is determined by Apek, the Postal and Electrocommunication Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, and applies to the companies mentioned above. Members of the Civil Code do not convince the reasons for the adoption of the proposed novel. Our final decision on support will depend on all of us today's arguments, pro et contra, both in the positions of the sent groups and in the positions of colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u61	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! Again, we have before us a proposal for a law relating to the regulation of the situation of radio and television media. I say again because we held a general debate at the previous regular session on the amendment of the Digital Broadcasting Act, with which today's amendment to the Media Act is directly linked, as both legislative proposals relate to the regulation of digital broadcasting of television programmes. The proposed amendment to the Media Law is short, since it contains only two articles, of which Article 2 is the final provision, whereas Article 114a of the Basic Law, which regulates the exception in the field of terrestrial digital broadcasting, is amended by Article 1, paragraph 1. With the amendment to this Article, it is proposed to eliminate the inequalities between radio and television programmes of particular importance, as an arrangement is in place to allow for the free use of public broadcasting infrastructures also for television programmes with a status of special importance that broadcasts terrestrial digital. Members of the Slovenian People's Party estimate that the proposed solutions for terrestrial digital broadcasting create an equal position between radio and television programmes of particular importance as it allows for the free use of RTV Slovenia's broadcasting infrastructure. Following the transition from analogue to digital terrestrial broadcasting, broadcasters of television programmes of particular importance themselves had to finance the transition to digital broadcasting, which caused them difficulties and also high costs, and this has led to inequalities between radio and television media of particular importance, which constitutes an intervention in the rights already acquired. In the Slovenian People's Party, we share the opinion of the law's proponents that local and regional media are of particular importance social factors that create a direct link between the public and local communities and complement the service of the public service on the axis of local and national. The media, which acts in a non-commercial manner and is their key objective of ensuring the constitutional right to information, must have the basic conditions provided for its operation, since they are practically the only ones that are most comprehensively a problem from the local environment. For these reasons, the members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed law, and we will also support the amendment proposing removal from the home labour body of Article 1a following the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u63	Thank you. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u64	Thanks again for saying that. Nice greeting also to the Secretary of State and to your co-worker and, of course, to you, colleagues and colleagues! The aim of the proposed solution is to eliminate the inconsistencies introduced in 2006, when TV broadcasters were particularly concerned with the right to free use of Radiotelevision Slovenia’s broadcasting infrastructure. By switching to terrestrial digital broadcasting, the provisions of Article 112 of the current law have ceased to apply to broadcasters of television programmes of special importance. Therefore, they were forced to absorb the high costs of their digitally extended programme, which is of particular importance with the status. These software content is a complement to the public service, as RTV Slovenia cannot cover all events in Slovenia evenly. We must not deny that local regional media are an important social factor, as they guarantee the right of the public to be informed about events in their narrowest living space and thus contribute to the development of local democracy and also to sustainable development. While their legal form of organisation is indeed an economic society, they are primarily committed to the exercise of public interest and therefore achieving profit is not their main objective. The proposed law seeks to eliminate the inequality in the treatment of the analogue and digital mode of terrestrial broadcasting established by public regulation, through the implementation of must-carry broadcasting, as well as the inequality between the radio and television programmes with a status of special importance. In the DeSUS Group, of course, we support this amendment of the law, because we are convinced that this correction is necessary, for legal reasons, in view of the legislation so far and the actual state of the new technique for the dissemination of RTV programmes. It is also due to the fact that there will also be a significant facilitation of the operation and the survival of local or regional media, which, due to inconsistent legislation, will also be the result of RTV executions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u65	Thank you. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u66	Dear President! Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Probably most of us, when we only have time, like to see a TV show at a local television station, which presents events from our vicinity, from the local environment. People like to see the news, where many of their children, relatives, acquaintances, and friends are also involved. The news of the problems and challenges of the local environment is more interesting because they have a direct impact on our lives. Many are also encouraged to participate actively in local communities. Local television stations are close to us because of these local content. In New Slovenia we believe that local and regional media are of particular importance and are an important social factor. They also contribute to the development of local democracy and also to sustainable development. However, they have one big problem because they are generally small businesses and operate in a limited area, they are very difficult to compete with large players on the market. By marketing their advertising space they are less competitive and they are difficult to survive, and New Slovenia believes that state aid is essential. It is not much, but by allowing the unpaid dissemination of content to these programmes we help to reduce the ever-too-high costs. The current Media Act, adopted in 2006, has created an uneven situation between radio and television programmes of particular importance by abolishing the right to broadcast television programmes free of charge, so this situation needs to be rectified by supplementing the law. In New Slovenia, we believe that the plurality of the media, the protection of media freedom, the promotion of the quality and expertise of the media and the respect of ethical principles in media reporting must be ensured. Complementing the media law will make this possible, so the Members of New Slovenia will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u67	Thank you. On behalf of the Group Positive Slovenia Mrs Tamara Vont.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The only objective of the proposed amendment to the Media Act under Article 1 is, as we have heard many times today, to regulate must-carry, i.e. to the terrestrial digital broadcasting of the status programmes of special importance. This provides for the remuneration of programmes of particular importance when paying for material costs and the free distribution of those programmes that had to be purchased, to say their own operation, i.e. their own multiplex, and broadcast via radiotelevisions of Slovenia. The solutions brought by the novel are in principle not controversial. However, for programmes of particular importance which do not yet have a regulated funding system in a way that would enable these programmes to function in a stable manner, both solutions are very important. What is at stake and what is significant is each time the opening of a system law to deal with individual problems. So we can probably expect another novel to solve perhaps the financing of media content in a short time. So once again we have clear evidence that we need a law that adequately addresses the most pressing media issues. These are issues of concentration of ownership, the issue of autonomy of journalistic work, the issue of control and the protection of public interest, and these are topics that we should talk about quite a bit. However, in the Group of the Positive Slovenia, we will not oppose the proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u69	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u70	Your Honor! Also on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, a very nice greeting to all! The amendment to the Media Act aims to strengthen plurality while implementing the Directive adopted by the European Union in 2009. The law we are amending was adopted three years earlier and it is therefore a moment when we can do something to enrich the Slovenian media space, because, if ever, today is an opportunity to face with responsibility the fact that every media is rich in Slovenian space and that, therefore, as legislators, we are obliged to establish those conditions that Slovenia is a media space, and thus the constitutional right of people to information is fulfilled as much as possible. In this case, it is of particular social importance to the media, because these media must meet additional legal conditions in order to obtain this title at all, this title and, of course, to maintain it. This means that they must have more content, richer content, and more information than others. Many of these media, which we decide directly by adopting or rejecting this law today, are extremely rich or individual – some would say a market niche, and the question whether when it comes to the media is the right expression because it is a constitutional right to information – or whether it can give greater emphasis to certain regional or local topics, for which there is never enough space in large media. Therefore, a long time ago, the legislator adopted a law defining the media of particular social importance and giving them certain rights. That law in 2006 wanted to follow technical changes, but they followed them in practice slower than anyone would have liked, and at that time the European Union's legal regime changed by adopting a Directive in 2006. And today it is about bringing this legal order into line and adapting our legal situation to the European Union's demand, which – must-carry system – requires this directive number 136 from 2009. Some of you have expressed doubts about the possibility that some media should have different status, but I firmly believe that the problem of Slovenian media is not so much in ownership, which was particularly highlighted as a problem that should be further regulated by media law, which is certainly a time and opportunity, but if there is a Slovenian democratic deficit, it is a fact that there is insufficient competition, that the fundamental democratic condition is insufficient to be met, that information on any social issue should be made available at any time from different perspectives. That is why we need as much media space as possible and that is why this proposed novel is, according to the Slovenian Democratic Party's assessment, appropriate and will be supported. With regard to the amendment under 1.a adopted by the Committee, let me say that none of the members of the SDS supported it on the Committee and we will support it in the light of the opinion of the Legal Service that it is completely removed from the law. However, we propose that we do what we can today to enrich the Slovenian media space and adopt the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u71	Thank you. On behalf of the Ambassador of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Samo Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! When we read the coalition agreement, some commitments have inspired us to hope that the right-centre coalition has abandoned some of the actions we have witnessed in the 2004-2008 mandate. One such commitment is undoubtedly the one about protecting media freedom and independence and not interfering with the work of the media, and some steps in this short time of government have convinced us that our expectations have been too high. The ban on the conclusion of author contracts, which is now somewhat popular, unfounded requirement for the dismissal of members of the supervisory board of RTV Slovenia, the ministerial takeover of the role of editing, the publication of independent broadcasts and leaders in client bulletins and tweets, are just some of the actions that show that only a fama for the public is recorded in the coalition agreement. If the right-centre coalition wanted the word meat to become, today they would consider a bill that would offer a comprehensive answer to the question of how the media would successfully carry out their mission in acute circumstances where only a small fraction remained of the advertising cake to the programmes. In order for the measure to be full, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the interest of savings, reduces public funds aimed at supporting the media and promoting audiovisual culture. This year, the media will receive a third less from the budget than originally envisaged. Therefore, it would be more important for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to draw up systemic solutions that will provide the media with a more sustainable and stable source of funding and enable their further development. The proposal for a new law on media proposed by Members and Members of the right-centre coalition is a more modest version of the proposal tabled by Members of the DeSUS Group before the end of the previous mandate. The proposal for a novel is significantly less ambitious and should only slightly improve the situation of some local televisions. As such, it raises indications and doubts that it is closely linked and directed or even written on the skin. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have taken a constructive approach to the treatment of the labour force. In order to ensure the continued smooth broadcasting of television stations in accordance with the purpose of gaining special importance status and resulting rights and obligations, we have proposed an amendment which has been voted against without a vote. However, according to the behaviour of the bill's proponents who wish to delete the amendment, the adoption of the amendment of the Social Democrats was only a result of the current weakness of the coalition majority on the committee. Notwithstanding the intention, we believe that before the vote, the coalition will re-examine the text of Article 1a and further preserve the Social Democrats. Finally, in the Group of Social Democrats, we have always expressed our preference for programmes of particular importance when dealing with documents in the media field and have insisted on ensuring the conditions for their successful operation. Therefore, we have repeatedly strongly opposed the proposals for their abolition. We insist on the position that these programmes, which only provide the necessary quantity and quality of information on developments in the local environment, should be provided with adequate conditions for their mission to be realized. We expect this task to be carried out as soon as possible in dialogue with the professional and interested public and with good intentions by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, it is also bound by the decision adopted unanimously by the Committee on Education, Science, Culture and Sport on the report of the Broadcasting Council. This Government proposes that it prepare a proposal for regulatory changes that will comprehensively regulate the financing of programmes of particular importance in a way that will enable these programmes to operate in a stable and sustainable manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u73	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are going to discuss the articles and the amendments that we are going to make on the basis of the review of the amendments you have received from 14. 5. 2012. We have only one open article, or one amendment, to Article 1a, so I am putting Article 1a and Amendment to Article 1a of the SDS, DeSUS and NSI. Mag. They're going through Aha. You're signing up for the debate. [[...]] I'll open the application to the debate. I'm opening an application for discussion. The first is Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u74	Your Honor, hello! As has already been said today, local television is of great importance. Events from Goriška to Ljubljana on the first RTV program – or any other – come very hard unless they are sensationalistic. All that people need, even what they need to relax, I don't know, predictions of smaller events that normal national television can't represent, that's in the interference of these local televisions. I must say that these televisions are well-reviewed and are in fact absolutely necessary. However, I agree with the proposal already put forward by the Social Democracy, which would have been written in this sense, that if, within three years, the ownership, management share of voting rights were changed, then this television would be shut down. I will say that TV Primorka currently owes RTV Slovenia 147 000 euros. The owners of this television are Salonit Anhovo, Primorje and so on, companies that are literally on the ground and are not even the right owners to take care of this television. They're not actually gonna be able to pay for this money, but it's May 25th. If this TV goes out on May 25th, then the whole northern Primorska and a little wider, even from Kopra to Postojna and to Bovec – this area is no longer covered by local television. However, I must say that this television is also watched by many viewers on that side of the border, called Slovenians in place, and has another added value. That is why I will support this law, and I will also support the amendment solely so that this ownership structure is not in such an interest – I will not now mention what it is – to turn it into again to the detriment of local televisions. So, as I predicted, I'll support the marriage. It is true, however, that Slovenia needs a comprehensive media law, and I ask the Ministry to prepare this appropriate law further to relieve these local televisions, as well as RTV Slovenia, constantly worrying about what will happen tomorrow. You can't do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u75	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The amendment tabled by the coalition actually deletes this supplement, which was adopted at the meeting of the parent working body and which specifically referred to the fact that the ownership of the media of special importance should not change for three years. In particular, I would like to point out that we have always advocated the role and importance of the media of particular importance, even when the current coalition in 2006 amended the Media Act and, with those amendments, defined what we are currently trying to remedy; that is, the suspension of free broadcasting when switching from analogue to digital transmission. It is also true that my fellow Member, Sam Bevk, has said that the Social Democrats have reached a unanimous adoption of the decision that the Government should finally draw up a proposal for normative changes that will fully regulate the financing of programmes of particular importance in a way that will enable these programmes to operate in a stable and sustainable manner. And that's what this is all about. The underlying problem facing local television is the lack of resources, the reduction of advertising revenue, the reduction of other revenues, including the slow publication of calls for funds. All of this has put some local media in an impossible position. Social Democrats agree that these media are a enrichment of the Slovenian media landscape. At the same time, however, it must also be said that in the work of the ruling coalition, there is great perversion, because they have suddenly become major advocates of the media of particular importance. Let me remind you that in the previous term, we have also considered two reports from the Broadcasting Council, 2007 and 2008, where it has been possible to read that the media of particular importance is the obvious remainder of the past, that it is necessary to put into the media, to introduce the practice of entrepreneurial philosophy and to get rid of budgetary parasiteism. What position is now in force?Oh, my God! Is the coalition supporting the media of particular importance or is it still talking about parasitism that entrepreneurial philosophy must be introduced and so on? But now all of a sudden these are no longer the media that, as it was said, would be the obvious remnant of the past? What we see as Social Democrats is, once again, whether it is the media of particular importance, which are specifically treated in such a way that they do not have to pay for the transmission of the signal on multiplex, then they should insist on or say that the part for which they cannot implement the non-payment will also be simplified by this. Otherwise, it is necessary to say in relation to this intervention in the Media Law that this is another case where we are trying to solve a much broader problem with some isolated problem. The word of the two media multinationals, so to speak, from the Slovenian media market shows how the Slovenian media space is actually very small and those who imagine that they will be able to operate on this as in the larger media space, experience unpleasant surprises and do not endure the smallness of our media market. But we are certainly the Social Democrats in favour of plural media, pluralism. Plurality is not alone, as some believe that plurality can be advocated and that it is essential only when it comes to the dissemination of political content and the agenda, but plurality is also essential when it comes to various media content. Let us now see how the media of particular social importance, both radio and television, are carrying out a mission that makes the media of particular social importance. How many of these media create software content that is not as commercially successful as the content that we follow on commercial media? For example, how many of them are engaged in a program for individual audiences and viewers or listeners? How many, say, measures on the young population, how many on the child population? How many of those who create content that is of a more serious nature and therefore focus on a narrow circle and then cannot behave by their resilientness of ratings and obedience? There are analyses in Slovenia about what individuals actually miss in our media offer. Not only licensed broadcasts of general, wide range, but also those content that are specialized, which also require perhaps a little more concentrated viewing and listening. That is why some media have also been set up and have therefore received certain special rights. And to put an end to this: We are protecting the public interest, the free transmission of RTV on multiplex provides precisely what was said to be the subject of free distribution of the content that has a narrower reach and is of local importance. Of course, this has nothing to do with how individual media are already being distributed, including those with special significance status, and what coverage is with the signal when it is being broadcast, and how this coverage now exceeds what has given them special meaning status. But with this we have no problem with the Social Democrats, we have problems when another interest that cannot be said to be public interest can be involved. That we're not even talking about a conflict of interest. Thank you very much. But I have to say this: the amendment that has been tabled, ours, on the committee has been adopted, and I will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u77	Mr. Franz Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. However, I must say that I am pleased that the individual coalition partners, even though they have in the past thought differently, think as they think, and support this public interest of local media. Now, whether it is unpaid or disbursed, it was quite a point in the introduction and also in the explanation of the views of individual parliamentary groups and would not touch on this particular issue. In addition to the amendment to Article 1, which essentially solves the text of Article 114a, another amendment to Article 1a, which was proposed by the Group of Social Democrats, is another amendment. Somehow, the content of this amendment would still justify its purpose, of course, if the last paragraph of the third paragraph remained as it had been at the outset. Given that Article 1 of the Law on the Home Committee has been fully remedied, of course it takes into account the opinions and comments of our Legislative and Legal Service and the Government, it is clear that this new Article 1a is not necessary. The content of the new Article 114a complements the proposal for a law, which is now perfectly clear, is not free of charge for programmes that have no special meaning status; it is said that there is no free distribution for programmes that have no special meaning status. The Legislative and Legal Service has explained to the updated proposal concerning this article, article 1.a, that the provisions of the current Media Act on the acquisition of the status of the programme have no special relevance whatsoever to the fulfilment of any ownership or management shares or voting rights. Nor is it proposed to supplement the law. For this reason, we will, of course, also support the amendment to Article 1a in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u79	Thank you. We'll open another circle. Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u80	Your Honor! If I keep going where I end up in the introductory part. I said: every medium is rich. I did not say that the rich only every medium of special social importance, as there may have been a little misunderstanding now in relation to one of the discussions, but every media is rich in Slovenian space, because every media gives people the opportunity to obtain some information, to gain a different view of any relevant topic, of any event, has social significance and thus, of course, also gain the opportunity to participate actively in this decision. This is actually the fundamental principle of democracy. In this case, when it comes to the media of particular social importance, I have stressed that it is essential for them to have content. And that is what any media is about, in particular and in all the media as a whole; the content, therefore, to realize that fundamental democratic principle, which is also a constitutional principle, must be made available at any time, but in an easy, accessible way, information on any relevant issue that concerns society, but is enlightened by different value points. Only in the event that this condition is met, democracy actually works. If any part of this condition or condition is not fully met, then democracy becomes, unfortunately, only a farce. For this reason, I have said that as legislators we are obliged to do everything possible to make the media space as rich as possible and with this information to the people, the correct information, illuminated from different value points, always and easily available. In this case, this amendment now deletes what has been adopted by the Committee on the proposal of the Social Democrats, but by the time it is adopted, the legal service has clearly defined itself. In addition, we were all aware of this on the committee at the time, it had one weak point because it binds the determination of control or the exercise of control only to the change of ownership. Here, however, the content is essential, since the content is one that defines by law the media of particular social importance and does not respond in such a form to two questions; what happens, for example, if ownership does not change, but editorial policy changes dramatically and the media no longer fulfils the conditions for a declaration of specific social importance. Otherwise, the media law as a whole knows other mechanisms that regulate it, and the question is, how fast, how fast they are implemented and how effective they are. The second question that this raises is even control as such. The media area is an area that is very special and in fact difficult, and many times you have warned yourself, to exercise some control over them, which will be objective, which will be measurable, which will not in any way further squander the media space, and therefore every intervention in this area must be considered so very well. In this case, it is precisely because a new law is being drawn up, the proposed deletion of the current one has been supplemented, because it is the most elegant, simple solution at this point. When it comes to control – let me also go back to something that I highlighted at the beginning, to what is the largest democratic deficit in Slovenia: that the constitutional principle that I was talking about, that every moment is available information on any important issue, highlighted by different values, is not sufficiently true. This is a constitutional principle, but it has not been sufficiently realized. Why does this not work in practice in Slovenia? What is the essence of this democratic deficit? Everywhere in the democratic world is based on raising ethical awareness or, if you want, the quality of journalism, the quality of the media, the quality of the information provided on the mutual control of the media itself. They within themselves in some way self-correct themselves. Simply put, if one of the media publishes false information, all the other media, whether they are state-owned or private, or have any special title, because they compete to expose the untrue or defective unilateral information that has been published, and when they expose it as manipulation, that medium loses value in the eyes of people, they turn away from it and, of course, get the others who have provided the correct information. In Slovenia, unfortunately, this principle does not work or at least does not work sufficiently and therefore I stress so much that the Slovenian media space needs to be enriched, that additional competition in the information provided is needed; the one that will then, in practice, allow this competition to be achieved in the quality of the media's mutual control. For in the past, if we look at past years, there have been many things that have happened exactly the opposite. If one of the media opened a new topic, presented a new view, a group of very loud appeared and began attacking that medium because it had deviated from some established image, but that established image was a reflection of some monopoly. That's why I'm reminding you of something else. When we talk about the media as a whole and the media as a whole, there must always be a fundamental criterion for respect for journalistic ethics, the quality of information and content given. In fact, in the textbooks of the Faculty of Social Sciences you will find a sentence that says a great deal about the painting, which is unfortunately still too often in Slovenian media, not all. There are always some who save honor and many of these are, in fact, directly covered in this bill, which is still today. The textbooks write nicely, not so much about what is being reported, about editorial policy, in fact, say the most things that are systematically silent and therefore cannot be found out anywhere. In order to implement the constitutional principle here, which I firmly believe is binding on all of us, especially because we are legislators, because we owe fundamental democratic constitutional principles and thus translate values into the letter of the law in the positive sense of the word that we are opening up additional opportunities to open an additional space and, in the present case, allow and maintain the richest Slovenian media scene, and thus, as much as possible, to each of us, every citizen, every citizen, to get the right information, it is worth adopting this law today. This is a small step, but it poses a very big problem for those media that are concerned because at some point they lost the right they had before. On the other hand, this is only the case – and we are all committed to it, as we are members of the European Union – to align our legal order with the European order. The principle of must-carry requires Directive 136 of the European Union, adopted in 2009, and today we have the opportunity to bring our legislation into line with the requirements of the European Union Directive. Therefore, in the SDS we will support the proposed amendment and thus delete Article 1a and then vote in favour of the law in full – in order to enrich Slovenia's media space and preserve and strengthen those qualities that already exist here, including programmes of special social importance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u81	Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, Mr Secretary of State with a colleague, colleague and colleague! I'm going to support the amendment of the Media Act myself. If I recall the mandate back, it is true that the solution to televisions of particular regional importance could already be adopted if even those who today stress this great importance were so loud and decisive. Unfortunately, this was not the case and this amendment was not adopted at the time. Article 39 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states as regards freedom of expression in the last paragraph: "Everyone has the right to receive information of a public nature for which the law has a legitimate interest, except in cases provided for by law." In individual areas in the Republic of Slovenia, there are three televisions with special regional significance, including TV Primorka, RTS Maribor and Television Your channel, Novo mesto. Of course, specific areas in the Republic of Slovenia are specific. Therefore, the opinions presented in the debate and the views presented today by individual parliamentary groups are certainly different. Those who come from areas where we have only one television of particular regional importance or where we do not have other local or private televisions are of particular importance. Certainly for the area of the White landscape, Dolenjska i Posavje, which covers the area of Dolenjska all the way to Ivančna Gorica, the entire area of the Belarusian and Posavje municipalities, Television Your channel, Novo mesto is of particular importance. Perhaps even more so for Dolenjska and White Krajina, since Posavina municipalities also have another kind of media that they can inform in this way. Let me say that the city council must also have local television by law. For the Municipality of Novo mesto this is definitely represented by TV Your channel, Novo mesto. The loss of the right to free broadcasting, for example, in last year’s year was a sort of television eclipse with regard to news of regional special importance. And in the White landscape, there was a great dissatisfaction of people, because two national televisions could not cover as much regional news as people wanted or as they wanted with television of regional importance, such as TV Your Channel, New City, is enabled. Let's not just talk about one TV. This is the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and the constitutional right to information must be guaranteed to all. In particular, the daily news of regional importance, when events in the southern living area, which also contribute to the development of local democracy and sustainable development, as has already been highlighted today, certainly also means a link between the public and local communities. Therefore, it is a matter of complementing the public service services of national televisions, which cannot cover all events in Slovenia evenly. The essence of adopting amendments to the law is therefore to fill the information gap on the axis, as they would say, not the third development axis, but on the axis local-national. Therefore, I will support the amendment of the law and the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u83	Mr. Richard Braniselle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. One more nice hello for me. In Slovenian media space, I think it broadcasts about, according to my data, 25 televisions that have special meaning status. At this moment, we are only talking about three with the introduction of the new Media Law. Once this limit is set at 10%, already these three benefit 7.5%, then of course there will be no room for any more. What are we worried about? We are concerned that we are not putting all televisions of particular importance in the same position. We want such a law to be drawn up that will make this transparent and that will allow competition between all these stations of particular importance only on the basis of the programme and coverage and not on the basis of some kind of protectionism. It is true, as said by colleague Grims, that every medium is rich in media space and represents not only competition, but also diversity, which we all welcome. However, not at the expense of public broadcasting. I think that the National Assembly must also bear in mind that our public service radiotelevision must be protected and prevented from actually profiting from private companies at the expense of public television. Media of particular importance shall be financed from other items. I think it's important that they compete on calls and get the funds that the state is making for pluralisation to spread the media space. Another fear that arises is how these debtors will repay this debt to public broadcasting of EUR 390 000, which is important for Television Slovenia. I'd like to appeal again to the competent ministry. We agree, indeed, that we need a new media law that will make matters transparent, good, fair and that will contribute further to placing all stations of particular importance in an appropriate way to enrich the media space further, to ensure pluralisation and thus to regulate the whole area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u86	Ladies and gentlemen! This law in some way places both television and radio stations in the same position and eliminates what we may have done wrong because radio stations did not have to do what television networks had to do. That's why I think it's okay to do this right now. The question of the media space is an extremely interesting question and deserves a lot of independent and in-depth debates about the fact that the viewership of the individual media depends in some way on its content, on the competition it has in a particular area. Editorial policy, of course, from owners in some way and from how it passes into the media space itself. I do not want to be able to control what the media broadcast and what they cannot broadcast, so that competition is completely free and free and that people can get the information they need. It's bad when someone doesn't have access to all the information, when this information remains a key target for financial reasons, because of everyone else, then every person can't clear up what the real information he needs. That's why I think you're all the ones who talked about it being right to process this media space comprehensively, that it's the right job, and we should do it relatively quickly. As regards television stations of a regional character, in a way – that is, for the area where I live, this is called the Shale Valley and the wider environment, it is certainly clear that the ratings of our regional television are high. Measured, I don't have this information here today because I didn't even want to say with this argument that people are getting information of local importance, regional and even broader importance right through this media house or through this media space. Therefore, it would be extremely damaging if this space were to be deconstructed and no longer functioning. At this point, the owners of media houses or television regional stations tell us that if what we are proposing here today does not happen, these radios or television stations must shut down. That's right. So they can't take it anymore. So there is still quite a bit of work to be done in the perspective to provide funding in some way, both in the distinction between the state, between the local and commercial work that each such house has, it seems to me to be extremely important at this point. Of course, I think the solution is good at the moment, so of course I will support the law. I think that this solution, or that our mission is to continue, is to agree on how we will regulate the area of media space and, of course, information. Above all, I would like to say to Mr Branislj that the ratings are actually relatively large – of course they cannot be compared with TV Slovenia or with any other house – and that our concern for TV Slovenia is good, appropriate and that we care about it. To ensure that they can work independently, to be able to provide real and good information to the extent that national television, of course, can provide — when we talk about the state television that we are responsible for. That is why I think this debate is extremely important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u87	Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I also believe that what we are doing with this law or the amendment of this law, that we are returning to some local media the right to distribute these programmes free of charge is of particular importance, important and correct. For, as has been repeatedly expressed on all sides, the constitutional right to objective information is a fundamental right. This right in our country is not quite enough, because media competition is actually too small in all areas and is not, as has already been said, a genuine competition that would in any way allow a listener, reader or someone to obtain objective information so that from different media they can convince themselves of the credibility of some information. There is nothing wrong with someone who does not hide the political orientation, and in the media also politically partially marginally publish something, but the listener, the recipient of the information, must have the right to be familiar with the same news on the other hand and then understand between the lines where the real truth is. Like we said, it's not often. I also have to say that in writing all these laws I think terminology and language are too complicated. This could be said in a much simpler way. As a result, all the backgrounds in the field itself were not clear when adopting this amendment to Article 1a, which is now to be amended or eliminated in the opinion of the Legal Service. If I understand correctly, the committee's proposer said today that the urgency was that media ownership should not be changed. This information tells me a lot, it is said that a particular political party is now satisfied with the ownership of the media of special importance and that it is afraid of changes in the future, it seems to them that the change in ownership could make the impact and the formation of these news worse. Of course, I cannot be in favour of a concrete situation like this today, not least these are some literal natural processes of property change, the state, and we, of course, have to worry about regulation so that these media will actually serve their purpose. However, it was also said that in fact they are from all parties, and in particular from one party, advocates of plural media. I think we're all principled. I'm just wondering. Let's say that when this affair is now present from the multimedia center, when they came to the public for correspondence between journalists. This certainly was not intended to make public RTV as much a plural medium as possible, for if someone writes that a certain editor has to be – because it also advocates a slightly more open content – and "some people are killed and thrown into the pits", this is certainly not for plural media. That's the point. Looking back, they reached their goal, achieved editorial liquidation of a certain editor, and narrowed the plurality in some period of a medium. When it comes to this amendment, which we are going to confirm today – I hope that, even in the opinion of the legal service, it should be deleted – that this was a relatively skilled political trick that we did not understand in that moment and confirmed in that light. It is therefore right to correct this mistake today and to delete this article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u89	Another round of debate. Anyone who wants to sign up. Please, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u90	Thank you. In 2006, the adoption of the law resulted in what today this law, which we are considering or this amendment is trying to correct. So it'll be clear what's going on with these things. If a comprehensive media law had not been adopted in the previous mandate, some who had discussed should also ask why. Only the fact that someone as a politician can perform or cannot perform in a local environment can, of course, be an argument represented by someone, but this is not a fundamental argument for the exercise of public interest. And the questions that I am asked about this amendment of the law are whether or not journalists who have worked will be paid for this work. Will this really mean more independent and quality press work now? We would like to resolve all problems concerning media legislation from the quality of journalistic work to everything else when amending one single article. What someone intended to do or didn't do. Some are experts in one way or another to know everything anyone says or does not say, but the fact is, I am interested in how these financial obligations that have arisen and are not aligned with national television. Will they be cancelled? Will they be paid or not? Because what I'm interested in is how we take care of national television, how we try to give it away, we've seen some of these cases, from how contracts can be concluded, to what is actually seen in the work of the public service. What someone is going to encourage is a matter of his personal political culture and I am not going to deal with it; but, as it is said, there are serious problems that are of a legal nature, what someone will do with these obligations he has to perform, and how he will settle them. But that these local media are in an unenviable position, it's true. Just as it is true that frequencies in the past have been very easily distributed and that the frequencies allocated to the media of particular importance have become a number of things, which is not of particular importance with this programme being broadcast, but it is also true. But after all, the enrichment of the media landscape is also that the central national daily has local news. I don't know how many of them you're looking at or how many you're not looking at, but they're not just politicians. Once again, it is important to say that there has been some kind of manoeuvre in the back and that those who do not know how to react to the committees should think about it immediately. But I'm not going to say now what someone has said to me as their comment on the adopted amendment, and now, of course, it speaks quite differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u91	Mr. Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. I will support this change of law, but if my colleague Jerovšek spoke for a long time, I would probably consider whether I would support the marriage or not. Such instigation, what some think and political background – I don't think I belong. It is true that I do not want to act here as a lawyer to any local media, but as a member of counsel to people living in some local environment. People respect the media that they represent and show what is happening in some of their living environments. And that's what local and regional televisions are and, of course, radios. Radio already has this privilege, if we can call it that, and by supplementing the law, we are merely following this to give equal conditions to television houses. I am sure that I will also vote in favour of this supplement, so that we do not interfere with and aggravate the conditions of Radiotelevision Slovenia. I am convinced that this is not by resorting to rights or by reducing funds for RTV Slovenia. Slovenian space is inhabited and, as such, has a specially decorated media space; and it is right that we in the local environment have the opportunity to watch and listen to what is happening there. As much as they are and the media will be free, we will be as free citizens, and that is how we will feel. That's why it's right to support it. However, I am convinced that the Government will have to do something to take the time and energy to change or adapt the law as it should; not only with these supplements, but it will have to deal thoroughly with this problem and bring to the National Assembly a law that will follow that we will have a better one than it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u93	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Yeah.]] Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I wonder what freedom of the media my colleague Kavtičnik advocates if you would already like to limit the freedom of speech of Members. I think we are all aware here that in this house, there is a need to draw attention to all relevant matters. If I, with my implementation and also the reference at this point to the hottest media issue, have angered his colleague at the multimedia centre to take her out of the hall, and at the same time, my colleague Kavtičnik tells me that I should not talk about certain matters. Even if I have said that I am pleased that this debate has taken place today and also with regard to the deeper importance of the amendment, which is also opposed by the legal service, if the ownership of the media of special importance does not change to the future – I do not know why this is so disturbing? The logical consequence is if such ownership of concrete has to be cemented, that it also politically corresponds to the ownership of certain parties. I thought only the party who proposed was interested in this, but I am grateful to Mr Kavticnik for his reaction to see which camp he is located in regarding media freedom, about media information and that some of these things are disturbing, sorry, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u95	Here you go, Mr. Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u96	Thank you very much. My colleague Jerovšek, you obviously didn't understand me, I didn't forbid anything, I didn't say anything, I didn't say anything, but with my intervention or my opinion, I just wanted to say that sometimes you see too much fear in some of the actions that we Members are doing, and too much anticipation about some of the things that aren't actually there and there's no point in talking about it. That's what I was gonna say. With this view of you, you sometimes fear, of course, because you make political and such predictions. I don't think we need to get involved here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Okay, I'll open another round of debate. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u98	A replica because he had a debate [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, you had a debate because there wasn't a replica on mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u99	Just sit down for a second, Mr. Jerovšek. First of all, Mr Grims, because he has applied for the debate – he is cancelling the debate. Mr. Jerovšek, do you want to discuss it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u100	I think I would have had the right to a replica, because Mr Kavtičnik did not have a replica, because I replicated it to him and he could have applied earlier as a debater, and I can replicate the debater, but now I'm still on my turn. All I want to say is that I am protesting against my colleague Kavticnik's statement that I am intimidating anyone. Mr President, I think we have not heard anything like this before that a fellow Member intimidates another fellow Member on the possibility of his expression. This is unacceptable and I expect Mr Kavticnik to apologize for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u101	I propose that we calm the tone of the debate a little bit. Mr. Kavticnik, is it necessary?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u102	Of course it's an emergency. If Mr Jerovšek is now afraid, I apologize to him that he would not be afraid that he would be able to do his job normally, that he would not be afraid to sit here and that he would not be disturbed by his judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u103	Good. I, too, do not think that Mr Kavtičnik is feared in this Chamber. We concluded the debate on the amendment. The only amendment will be decided within half an hour of the end of the 8th item of the agenda. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving to 8. Agenda item — defence of the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision establishing and appointing the working bodies of the State assembly. The proposal was tabled by the College of the President of the National Assembly. The sending groups have not applied for a presentation of their views. The amendments to the motion for a decree have not been tabled, so that we can stop at this point and make the decision on the proposal within half an hour. I also hereby adjourn the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at exactly 12.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u104	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Please take your seats because we are continuing the adjourned meeting of the assembly. We are moving to a vote on the proposals for decisions. Thank you very much. I've checked myself, and I'm also asking you to check the operation of the voting devices. We continue with the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on takeovers by Emergency Procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement, without undue delay following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement without undue delay. We vote on this decision. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 4th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act following the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments could not be tabled at the assembly meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 5th item of the agenda, this is the second consideration of the draft law supplementing the Law on Media. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, which we will do on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 14 May 2012. We decide on the amendment of SDS, DeSUS and NSI to Article 1a. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 29. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded the decision on the amendment and thus conclude the second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. The wording of the draft law for third reading will be prepared by the services of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 8th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the Decree establishing and completing the tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly. Since no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision establishing and completing the tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the interrupted 1st item of the agenda – Questions of Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Matevž Frangež, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Janez Janša to Mr Matevž Frangež's question on the austerity measures taken. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present and 35 votes against 47 Members. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Roman Jakič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Prime Minister Janez Janša to Mr Roman Jakič's question on the official visit of the Prime Minister to the Federal Republic of Germany. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 35 votes against and 48 votes against. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Alenka Pavlič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure and the premises of Mr Zvonk Černač to Mrs Alenka Pavlič's question on traffic congestion. We're voting. 82 Members were present, 35 were voted in favour and 45 were voted in favour. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mr Aleš Hojs, Minister for Defence, to the question of mags. Barbara Žgajner Tavš in connection with the reorganisation of regional information centres. We're voting. There are 83 members or Members present and 35 votes against 46 Members. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Majde Potrat will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. Andrej Visiak on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the Vote explanation, please, Mrs. Potrate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u105	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I said yesterday evening that I did not at first intend to file a request for a discussion on the response of Minister Viszak, because my question was actually addressed to two ministers, including the absent mega Minister, Dr Žigi Turk. But the answer the mag gave. Visjak is such a nature that this answer requires discussion. I asked about the documents adopted, which say that by 2020 10% of students should be in international exchange and 20% of foreign students should be traded internationally. A little over a thousand 200 students have lost their right to a state grant due to the adoption or enforcement of the law on the exercise of rights from public funds. This is because no other law has been passed to regulate scholarships. Whoever broke the scholarship law, we know, and I'm not gonna lose words about it. The fact is that the public fund for human resources development and scholarships does not have funds for foreign scholarships. Mag. Visjak replied that he was not interested in foreign students because he was mainly interested in local students. And that's where lies lie. If I were a magician. The visionary is interested in domestic students, and then in the newly adopted Public Finance Balance Act, they would not cut out funding for students, for higher education, this area would not lose 50 million resources, as much as it is necessary for all the programmes that were announced in the autumn to be implemented, in particular those of the second degree programmes. I think he's a magician. A visa-holder of the government, in this government had a special position, was a negotiator with social partners, there are also changes in norms and standards, and this directly concerns those students or graduates who will not be able to join the programmes in the fall, because higher education institutions will not have the funds provided. I think this answer deserves a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u106	Thank you very much. We're voting. 82 Members are present. 37 votes against 44 members. [[For the vote was 37.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Gaspar Gašpar Mišić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Music's question on how to draw up European funds is addressed to Mr Žereva. We're voting. I'm sorry. We're adjourning the vote. Here's the explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u107	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The situation in terms of drawing on European funds, the only development resources available to Slovenia in times of crisis, is very serious and my proposal was therefore justified to discuss this issue in the National Assembly. We know what is going to happen, and the Minister himself has stressed that he will try not to have to change the operational programme, but he will have to. According to the 2012 National Assembly's adopted rebalancing, European funds are practically the only development funds in Slovenia. Up to €800 million per year is projected for the rebalancing of European funds. Slovenia has managed to return only EUR 1.3 billion to the state budget in the last five years. That is how we are expected by the end of 2015, when the current financial perspective ends, it is still difficult to work if we want to draw between €700 million and €800 million annually. As you know, we have major problems with bureaucraticising the system of drawing on cohesion funds. The problems are also faced by the municipalities, which makes it worse to draw on cohesion funds. In addition, it is likely that these drawback problems will lead to a change in strategies and operational programmes. That is why I would like to invite my colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, given that this is a serious subject and that we should all be better able to tackle and unite ourselves in this financial perspective, which is soon to expire, to draw on almost EUR 3 billion to figure out together where the problem is and where the key problems are, that this country is not able to draw on or return to its budgets and to its projects the funds it actually places in Europe. I sincerely hope that, like me, you will vote in favour of this proposal, that a serious debate will take place in the National Assembly on the issue of drawing on European funds, which are the only source of investment in this financial perspective and in this reference at the end of the day, because this country, we find, does not have its own resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u108	Thank you. Explanation, Mr Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! The topic opened by a fellow Member is even more topical than current. She's been through everything in her previous term as well. I'll tell you why. For the period 2007-2014, Slovenia earned € 5.1 billion in the negotiations for the option of drawing; it paid around €3 billion in the Brussels treasury, a little over €2 billion. At the time of the conclusion of these negotiations in 2008, negotiations were concluded after the operational programmes one June, and the other I think that in August or September, until the adoption of the next government, that is, by 2008, somewhere until autumn, the then Janša government, together with Minister Žagar, who also led and successfully completed 95 % of the drawdown, 2004-2006, had an auction of €1.5 billion. In the coming periods since the acquisition of the new government 2009, 2010 and 2011, only one third of this money has been distributed each year. We should have €5.6 billion signed today or late in 2011 if we are to proceed with all the procedures from here. Unfortunately, this did not happen despite three years of warning and begging in all areas, both to the Prime Minister and to Development Minister Gaspari and his secretary of state, who even in letters in Brussels wrote something else, something that the ministers agreed on among themselves, and these are still secret letters today. My fellow Member, there is now a need for a serious redistribution of funds in this area, now both the Minister and the Secretary of State in this field of work. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u110	Mr Mag has an explanation for the vote. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u111	Thank you. I will vote in favour of Mr Gaspar Gaspard Mišić's proposal, so that no mysterious story can be made out of this drawing of money. Because numbers are drawn from clouds and are wrong, it is best to be shown by government services. You'll see what we all know. When the new financial perspective starts, from year to year, pumping increases, last year, I think we've come somewhere to 800 million this year, I believe it's going to be a billion and so on to N + 2. It's not a big story, but if the story didn't work out, it would be good for the government to explain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u112	We're voting. 82 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 44. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We also have a proposal from Ambassador Alenka Pavlič: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Economic Development and Magnitude Technology. Radovan Žerjav on Mrs Alenka Pavlič's question regarding Slovenian logistics companies. We're voting. 81 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 48. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to six. On behalf of the President of the European Union, the President of the European Union, the President of the Council, the President of the Council, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the OCTOBER 1997, AMENDED TO THE PROTOCOL SIGNED IN LOVE 26. SEPTEMBER 2006 The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body, which also reported in writing to the National Assembly. I give the floor to Mr Joseph Horvath to present the report. That won't be necessary. We have not received any applications from the parliamentary groups to present their views. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there are no amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, all 80 have voted in favour. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to seven. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, IT IS THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE OFFICE OF THE MINISTRY OF THE UK ON COOPERATION AGAINST CRIMINAL The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The proposal was addressed by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. No amendments were adopted by the mother's working body, so there are no amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 81 Members and Members were present, with 81 votes in favour. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I'm closing point seven. I'm moving to nine. PERIOD OF THE DAY — MANAGEMENTALLY VOLUNTARY MATTERS. Under point 9.a, the proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the State Election Commission shall be made. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to discharge the duties of a member of the State Election Commission, Dr Yuri Toplak. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Point 9b of the Proposal for a Decision appointing eight members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of Article 17, paragraph 6, of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, Mr Jože Tanko has the floor. He's canceling the presentation. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u113	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Today we will re-elect eight candidates as a member of the Programme Council. They need an absolute majority, as you know, so we are meeting with this proposal another time. The embarrassment that arises with the proposed eight members is the same as before. Once again, we have only eight men to deal with who are proposed to be members of the programming board, so there will be only two women in the 29-member programming world. One as a representative of the Hungarian National Community and the other as a representative elected in December 2009. In December 2009, there were three of them coming from the central Slovenian province, while others came from other parts of Slovenia. They were from New Town, Celje, Maribor, Slovenj Gradac and Nova Gorica. If we are looking at this time a list of eight proposed members, there are five from central Slovenia and only three from other parts of Slovenia. Why am I stressing this again? This is because in the invitation to tender, the regional principle is specifically highlighted in the public call for members and members of the Programme Board. And if you are now looking at 16 people who will decide on behalf of those who will be appointed by the National Assembly, the central Slovenian province is in a privileged position. If I now come across the fact that, according to statistics in Slovenia, women are more than men, there will be no representation in the programming world, which, by the way, appoints a director or management of a public institution, but also decides on basic programming guidelines, there will be no representation of that part of the population in the central number, which is the majority. We cannot agree with such a principle in the party of the Social Democrats because we advocate parity democracy, it is said that both genders must be represented in decision-making or decision-making cities. However, the second question raised was whether the principle in the RTV Act, which was intended to fulfil the broadest possible social interest in representing individuals in the programming world, was realized when we looked at who those individuals and individuals proposed. As a special quality, it has been explained that it is possible for individuals to propose. And here I would like to point out a particular problem. The mandate-election commission has eliminated 10 applications from the applications. 37 reports have arrived, 10 have been eliminated. The reasons why someone was expelled are very interesting. It is interesting that my intervention at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission has not produced any success. You were told you were missing documents. Now let's see. Universities and colleges must submit only a decision of the body which is in accordance with the statutory powers and which has adopted a decision thereon. Among the candidates was the ZRC, for those who did not know, the Scientific Research Centre of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts. This is not a civil society which should provide evidence of registration, which is the reason for the exclusion in the footnotes. The proposal specifically stated, quote: "The undersigned Dr. Otto Luthar, Director of the Scientific Research Centre of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, in accordance with its competences as defined in the Statute [[...]] "I propose Dr. Mimi Urbanc as a candidate for the member of the RTV Programme Board." However, it was alluded that there was no relevant decision either. But if we go to see some other documents, the CEO's signature or leadership is enough to suggest, and the candidate hasn't been expelled. It is therefore a highly discriminatory act, and we point out this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u114	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The first one has the word, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. In the previous term, we have heard a great deal about how we cannot in any way guarantee the representation of members and members in the world of the RTV institution in the way that the widest possible interest is involved in the functioning of this institution and then also in the programme scheme itself. In this case, we can say that it is a distinct political composition, unilaterally colored. And if nothing else, won't it be kind of awkward when we're on the radio and on TV watching only one-signed shows? It's all going to get uninteresting, and I hope to say it's boring. However, the fact that it is really a composition that speaks only of the representation of one political option is proof that it is, say, a mag. Andrej Aplenc, proposed by the Institute for the Revitalization of Civil Society, is also Dr. Mitja Štular from this institution, and therefore one institution, which has as many as two representatives, other scientific institutions, which have already been mentioned, such as the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, must not actually come close, unless candidates are elected to the world. And this message is important. The Institute for the Revitalisation of Civil Society has also been very involved in the previous mandate, when a referendum had to be held to prevent the entry into force of pension legislation, black work, in short, all that was necessary in order to resolve problems arising from the crisis in Slovenia in a timely manner. The positions of this association at the time were extremely strongly opposed to the success of the problems in Slovenia. And today, this association has its representatives in public television and radio. And what can we expect, what will be the programming scheme? Apparently, their deception is not foreign to them, because the fact is that he was an eyewitness to that media law, which he is the author of and is somehow addressed to his colleague Grimes. that it has a substantial number of political representatives and those appointed through the National Assembly, as was the case in the previous constitution, until this Media Act has been adopted. This has also been recorded in the report on human rights. And what is the answer of the Civil Society Revitalization Society? That this is not true, that these data are not accurate and, last but not least, the State Department has been misleading, and that somehow I would have said also across our borders that they try to spread distorted information about what laws are being passed in our country and that politics has an increasing impact on public media or on television and radio. This composition that we meet with in this appointment is extremely political and, if nothing else, I really think that I am afraid of the programmes that, as I said at the outset, will become uniform. And be assured that public television and radio listening will not be more, more or less, and this is the greatest damage that we are causing, namely, access to public radio and public television is the largest in the whole of Slovenia, the widest coverage is, commercial television and radio stations have less coverage, and so the responsibility is even greater for us to name people who cover as wide a spectrum as possible, that information is more balanced and, above all, correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u116	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I was thinking of cancelling the debate, but it seems to me that for the claim just made that the composition proposed is highly political, it is still necessary to say that this is not true and that this is not true. I have confirmed a number of programming councils in my Member's history, and I can say by heart that such a non-political composition has not yet been on the table. If from those species that have had a decisive influence in the past on the composition of the programming boards, in the most part of the periods, you can make such a claim, then you are consciously giving up objectivity. If I recall any candidate who has a column in the daily newspaper every week, he has not put himself in a neutral position in another column, but he is extremely political, he strongly supports only one option. It was a political candidacy and it was huge. Last but not least, when proposals came with other political options, the heads of cabinets were appointed there. I would have previously pointed out to these candidates that not all of these candidates have performed in public so far, that the general public may be relatively poorly known to three, four candidates, and the rest are just experts. Obviously very good experts, because they have excellent professional careers and I am sure that they will also serve as experts and represent the positions and values that are needed in this place – the plurality of public media, public RTV, people's rights to information, etc. It seems to me that this candidate list is really made up of only one sex, but I feel it is totally unnecessary to perform feminist positions in this matter. Then we could turn the record around and say why they're, say, in some medium, say, the multimedia center, the journalist herself, and it's wrong. I'm not going to put something like that, but people apply differently to different calls. Election committees are also defined differently. This time, there were such nominations, and the measuring authorities decided to do so. I think that all other radicalism and unnecessary throwing is at the feet of the future programming world, which, as I say, we have never had such a neutral composition on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u118	Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I'd say that, too, column. Or maybe it's not true, but it is. Now it is likely that more than half of the citizens and citizens will be citizens, i.e. citizens who have been declared feminists. Please, where did you hear such an insufferable thesis? It is about talking in Europe about the lack of democracy, about the democratic deficit that we are trying to reduce by also taking care of a more equitable distribution of power. The power in the programming world is certainly also the power that women should have, because, as it is said, the professional structure of RTV employees is already such that women have an influence, and they do not have the greatest in the programming world. Of course, this is also an invitation to those who suggest that women who at an educational level are slightly better than men in this country are not capable of not being members of the Programme Council. I do not speak for myself because I, as a Member of Parliament, cannot run for anything like this. The point is that I think we have a lot of capable, highly educated and very pro-pulsive women in this country who do not get the right opportunity in decision-making positions. That is why it will be difficult for all those against the quotas in the electoral system to convince me that quotas do not play an important role because women there at the elections at least get the opportunity to run. There are no opportunities for members of the Programme Council here either. If that's why I'm a radical, I'm proud and happy to be a radical. Now the other one. Man is a political being or a political being, and no one asks anyone to be without political views. But as the way in which the programming council was formed under the RTV Act was declared the best of all possible ways, then let some concerns be aroused. If an individual can even propose to himself as a member of the Programme Council and he does not have to write anything other than that he is willing to work in the Programme Council and that he declares that he is accepting the candidacy, it is good and anyone can. I propose that the next public call be made by half the country. But if we're looking at what was the elimination moment, but there's something absurd about it, I'm sorry. In the second indent of point 3.1, the call stated that the certificate or registration document must be submitted by companies, associations of associations or their organisations and civil society organisations. I've already told the ZRC that it's not civil society. If you're watching, I don't know how to deal with the National Council of Disability Organizations, and whatever we think about it. But the National Council has a signed contract on the establishment and functioning of the National Council of Disabled Organizations, it has no registration, but you will finally see that all disabled organisations with stamps and signatures have agreed – these have registration documents. That's why I'm asking how to act here. Look, I have here a statute of one of the societies whose proposal has been eliminated. But this statute states that the bodies of society are a assembly of members, the President or the President and the Presidency. It also complemented the mandate holder from the Bureau, who proposed it, and eliminated the role. And so we could walk after that because, for example, the director of the Chamber of Commerce declared himself responsible, signed and was a good candidate. This is a highly uneven treatment of candidates. And if nothing can be done now, at least in the future it is necessary to prevent the elimination of the nominations of those that the current coalition does not want to be placed on the candidate list. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u120	Thank you. Mr Möderndorfer, if you have a procedural proposal or will later be able to explain your voice. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u121	Thank you so much for saying that. The current law on Radiotelevision Slovenia was adopted in 2005 and since then, following the same model, after the same public invitation, we have issued five calls to propose members of the Radiotelevision Council of Slovenia. In this mandate, in 2011, the second time. I would like to remind you, Mrs Potter, that so far there has been no dispute as to whether it is the duty of those who are candidates to submit all the required evidence on the application until this term. And I am very interested in why you did not, when we discussed at the previous meeting of the Mandate-Election Commission whether this public call should be supplemented or amended – and a call was made to all members of the Mandate-Election Commission – to propose amendments to the public call. None of the members of the Mandate-Electorial Commission proposed anything that would allow for a different conduct of the Professional Service of the Mandate-Electorial Commission and of the Commission itself. Under point 5 of this call, Mrs Potrata, it says that "the proposals must contain all the evidence and data referred to in point 3 of this call because the imperfect proposals will not be taken into account by the Mandate-Electorial Commission". And as in the mandate, when Mr Kumar and Mr Kontič led the Commission, the professional service also made a selection of incomplete roles in this mandate. Like that time, we also decided that imperfect roles would be eliminated. It was absolutely no different from two months ago, not this time. As far as deciding who's chosen. Even this time, as at all the calls so far, the candidates who have received the most votes are proposed for final decision to the National Assembly – we do not give up after that. Whether the members of the Commission have taken as a basis a professional reference, local affiliation, sex or anything else, this is left to their personal decision, as stated in Article 82 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I think that from what has been proposed, the selected good candidates, some I also seem to know, and in our group we will support such a proposal for a list. We see no reason to take a decision against the proposal of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. I would also like to call on you further if you have any suggestions regarding the formation of a public call, let us arrange this when the Commission of Mandate announces its call. Let us not resolve this after the procedure has been completed, when only a final decision has to be made, whether we support the list or not. After that, we cannot change the rules of the game. And I suggest that we avoid such political discussions. We are talking about content, we are talking about whether the proposal is in line with a public call or not. If it is consistent, then our task is not very difficult today, so we will also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u122	Thank you. Replica mags. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u123	Thank you. You can't tell if I'm announcing a decision on the Mandate-Election Commission because I was a substitute member. The material is confidential, and as always, when I come to the meeting, I examine and read the material. That's why I noticed that one of the candidates was eliminated because it was clear that there was no document [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u124	Mag. The amount of assigned [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u125	on registration and then on a procedural basis [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u126	I would like to ask you, in the replica, to explain what your discussion was misinterpreted in. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u127	I'm explaining. Because it was wrong on the Commission's mandate to explain that the ZRC should have a document [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u128	That's not a replica. I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u129	on registration. [[...]] ZRC is not a civil society [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u130	That's not a replica, mag. Spending. I'm sorry. That wasn't a replica. We have concluded the debate with this. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision appointing eight members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of Article 17, paragraph 6, of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. In doing so, I inform you that the decision will be taken if we reach an absolute majority, i.e. at least 46 votes in favour of Members and Members. Explanation of the vote first on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr Möderndorfer on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u131	A respected choir! We will vote against it in Positive Slovenia. I'm just gonna give you one absurd reason I heard on the Mandate-Volution Commission. It was said not by anyone, but by the President of the Commission of Mandate-Electority, that the registers in this country are not relevant, they are simply not up-to-date and are therefore not to be relied on. In the National Assembly, we say that registers in this country simply do not work. For these reasons, applications should be reviewed whether individual organisations and companies are registered or not. Please! This step already makes it very clear to you that it was actually an interest after elimination. Therefore, I simply no longer believe in the Sectional Service of the Mandate-Electorial Commission and do not believe in the relevance of these procedures. So I can't even believe in a choice that was made in the end. And if that is so, then, by official duty as a Member, I should ask that registers be updated and that this government be called upon, for God's sake, to whom they give public authority to keep registers in that country, in order to be valid and to be as they should be. Therefore, I cannot support such a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u132	Thank you. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. Individually? I'm opening an application to explain my voice. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u133	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! I cannot fail to accept this package proposal, not confirm it for justified reasons. Neither the principle of gender equality or representation was respected, nor was the regional principle respected. After all, if a vote were to be taken individually, about each name, here is Andrej, Aloyj, Igor, Jernej, Leon, Alex, Boštjan, Branko, if there was a vote on Alex Štakul, I would gladly support him because I trust him and believe that he is an independent and impartial expert in the field of television and everything related to RTV programmes. Such a proposal as I have already said cannot be supported and I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u134	Mr. Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u135	Thank you. I will also vote against it, because all the debate so far has not convinced me that it is a balanced proposal, but it is a highly political proposal. We are returning to some mental patterns from the past and we do not know how to go beyond them today, so I will vote against them.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u136	Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u137	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Now I'm gonna say what I couldn't say before. I don't object to anyone personally, and I didn't personally go after any candidate. What I object to is that I will now be declared a politician because I read the material. And the material I read shows me that some were eliminated in the process, which should not have been eliminated. There is no guarantee that if they were voted on, too, as members of the Programme Council, they would be given the opportunity to be on the candidate or candidate list. And it seems to me that the mandate-voluntary commission should act in such a way with sensitive data. These are data that we do not read from other members of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. And this is salad, this is, excuse me, seventy applications that needed to be reviewed to review them, but it takes time and I took the time and examined and found that individuals were treated unevenly. And that is what I am protesting and which is why I cannot support this proposal. However, that an unbalanced proposal is also based on some other publicly available data, it has already been mentioned in our debate. I want to have a good RTV programming world because I want to see that this many times apostrophe constitutional right to information and a quality programme realized. But as long as things are dealt with like this, I can't give my vote for. But how it happened in the past, I don't know because I wasn't a member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u138	Mr. Franz Jurša, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u139	President, thank you so much for your word. I'll vote in favour. Given that the Council of State is now called the Programme Council, it has also been called in the past, we can always say that it can be a political composition. Most of the time, however, this is decided by the majority. If most have now proposed these eight proposals to the door to the nose, I would not say that this is not a good proposal. I must tell you that the candidate that we have proposed in our parliamentary group and for whom we have been most committed is certainly not politically defined. I know him personally and he comes from the ends where we didn't have a representative in the world of RTV. Look, there's a lot of talk about roles. In one of the points, I think the sixth point of the invitation to tender is strictly saying that all the roles that are not perfect will be rejected. If the role was not complete and if those who proposed failed to do so, then, of course, we should not treat them equally, because those who did so could complain about it. Why aren't women represented? Not because there were too few proposals. This society must once be told that women should also be proposed so that they can be represented in all the bodies we appoint in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u140	Thank you. We will decide on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 33. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 33.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Point 9.c is the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund to finance the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Does the representative or the president want a word? He doesn't want to. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Not at all. The MPs and the MPs? Not at all. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 32. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 32.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Point 9.d is the request of the District Court in Cyprus, Criminal Section, for the authorisation of the commencement of criminal proceedings against Judge Orjana Trunkl. The request was submitted to the National Assembly by the District Court in Cyprus, the Penal Department. The request was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported and submitted a proposal for a decision to the National Assembly. On the basis of Rule 214 of the Rules of Procedure relating to Article 207, the National Assembly shall decide on a proposal for a decision without discussion. We are taking a decision on the following decision: National Assembly pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 134 of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 99 of the Judicial Service Act relating to the request of the District Court in Cyprus, Section of Penalty, of 23. 3. In order to decide on the issue of an authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against the judge of the District Court in Koper Orjana Trunkl for the offence of unlawful partial and unfair trial under Article 288(1) and (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, he shall not grant immunity to Judge Orjana Trunkl and shall permit the conduct of criminal proceedings. Explanation of voice. First Mrs Masha Kociper, then Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u141	Your Honor! I would also like to inform the House of State in its entirety of the debate that has taken place recently, not to the Commission of the mandate. In our client, we think that there is a dangerous precedent, namely, in a particular case, whether we should allow a case to be brought against a judge – because the names are not even important – it is a matter of principle – which, in carrying out her duty, decided on a matter and a person, it was a criminal procedure, convicted. Against its decision, the person complained, the judge's decision was confirmed by the higher courts, the Supreme Court of Slovenia is said to be the highest court, as well as a request for legality of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Yet, this person, who is dissatisfied with judgment, is satisfied with what accused or convicted person? – initiated criminal proceedings against this judge. The appeal was dismissed and the criminal procedure is now under way after a private action. There is a dangerous precedent when, in the event that the National Assembly allows a court to judge a person who has performed only its function, judges such as the law and the Constitution provide that she has no other option than to decide, to allow a procedure and thus to initiate a practice when accused persons, when they establish this possibility, if I say domestically, initiate these proceedings either at the beginning of the trial, and thus influence the decision of the individual judge, or perhaps, as in this case, after the proceedings have been concluded, to initiate proceedings for dissatisfaction with the judgment. I wonder whether the judges can still be independent of their decision and, in their conscience, will, in accordance with the law and the Constitution, decide on matters, criminal, civil, whatever, if they are threatened by a threat of possible proceedings against them when accused persons are cleared because they are not satisfied with the judgment. I would only point out that, under our Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly cannot decide what the content of the criminal claim is and what the content of the case is, but must rely on the proposal of the Council of Justice, which represents the highest summit of the judiciary. And in this particular case, after examining a specific case from a substantive and probably procedural point of view, the Council decided not to allow proceedings against a judge. On the basis of this proposal from the Council of Justice, Members should also decide. The positive Slovenian Members will vote against the opening of proceedings against the judge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u142	Thank you. Mr. Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u143	First, let me say that I haven't even opened the envelopes with material about this point on purpose. I do not want to know what the specific circumstances are and on what basis is the charge for an alleged crime. That's why I can speak very in principle. I agree with the predecessor, who points out that the point can be an extremely dangerous precedent when, in fact, with the potential conduct of today's National Assembly, we further undermine the foundations of the rule of law in the Republic of Slovenia. In this way, we will allow those who are dissatisfied with the court's decision, the judgment issued on behalf of the people, and with which some of the parties are certainly not satisfied, to actually open up the possibility of opening questions about interference with the already-powerful decisions of Slovenian courts. I must also say, when we speak of immunity, that immunity must always be recognised primarily as issues related to the work done — both as a member of Parliament for the voice expressed in this House, for the decisions taken in this Parliament, as judges and judges for the judgments that they take on behalf of the people and on the basis of the evidence that they have taken in the proceedings and the evidentiary process. If we miss this point of independence of the Slovenian judiciary, we will not do the legal state a service, but we will put one of the first nails in its coffin. I would like to very clearly warn you, as did my colleague Kociprova, that reckless treatment on this issue is no matter what decision the judge has made is, in fact, a dangerous procedure that poses a danger in itself. And I respectfully ask you to think carefully about what the consequences of non-recognition of immunity may be in this case, as well as in all similar cases, and to reject the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u144	Thank you. Before the vote, I should just explain that the Mandate-Electorial Commission has proposed that the immunity judge should not be recognised, which means that if this decision is voted on, the immunity judge is not recognised. However, if this decision is not passed, the immunity judge shall be recognised. I'm putting a decision to the vote. I'll explain it one more time. The proposal for a decision is that immunity judges are not recognised. And I will explain to you once again if this decision is voted on, then there is no immunity. However, if the decision is not taken, then the judge shall be granted immunity. Mr. Möderndorfer, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u145	We received a completely different explanation on the Commission's terms of reference. Since the vote was against, the procedure for initiating the criminal procedure is being amended. Actually, it's the other way around. I'm sorry, President, but you had time to explain to the MVC, and now apply to procedural. And that is what is now important that we simply now turn the entire voting system around again. For once in the National Assembly, let us discuss what is and what is not valid. I keep listening to some other procedure. I listened to something else on the MVK, and we can go look at the MRI itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-05-15-SDZ6-Redna-03.ana.u146	Look, everything's under control, Mr. Möderndorfer, don't worry. The proposal for the recognition of immunity shall always be considered on the Commission's terms of reference. If the proposal for the recognition of immunity does not obtain the necessary majority, then the proposal for a decision not to grant immunity goes to the National Assembly, it is said, the situation has turned. However, if this proposal was not put to the vote, this means that immunity is recognised. I think we all understand each other and we can vote on this decision. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision not to grant immunity to a judge. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. The vote was 38 to 40. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 40.]] I find that the decision is not adopted, which means that immunity is granted to the judge. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the third session of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
