ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 24th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened by the President of the National Assembly pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mag. Truda Cinderella, Janez Fish, mag. Dejan Židan, Marian Pojbič and Mag. Matthew Tonin. The President of the National Assembly also invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 24th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Thursday, 20 December, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received with reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting devices. Can we vote? We're voting. There were 55 Members and Members present, 54 votes against, none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 24th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision on the requirement of the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the assessment of the constitutionality of the consequences which would result from the delay in the application or the return of the law on the implementation of the Republic's budgets for the years 2013 and 2014 at the referendum. At its 6th session in December 2012, the National Assembly adopted the Law on the Implementation of the 2013 and 2014 budgets of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the initiative of the voters to apply for the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the law in question, submitted on 12 December by the Trade Fire Union of Slovenia, the President of the National Assembly has set a calendar period within which the signatures of voters to support the request for a referendum are to be collected. As the first day of the calendar period, the President of the National Assembly appointed Wednesday, December 19th 2012, for the last, day 35 and Tuesday, January 22nd 2013. With regard to this initiative, the Group of 46 Members and Members, with the first signed by Jozet Tank, submitted, pursuant to Article 21(1) and (2) of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative to the Assembly, a proposal for a decision on the request of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to assess the constitutionality of the consequences resulting from the postponement of the application or the rejection of the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014 at the referendum. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the applicants, Mr Jožet Tank.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, my friend! About 14 days ago, we had a budget meeting where we adopted budgets for the next two years and a law on the implementation of the budget. All the acts have been adopted by more than most Members, but these acts have gone through certain procedures both in the State Council and in the civil part of society. Referendum requirement of the Trade Fire Union has been tabled on the law on the implementation of the budget and with 1. 1. We are threatened that the budgets for the next two years will be inoperable, as only temporary funding is possible, and only for the purposes of proportionate work, for the purposes defined in the budget for this year. This will make it impossible to accept new commitments, which means that no new objectives from the budget for next year will be able to be implemented. Much of these investments, including other projects, are linked to European funds. The request made by the Trade Fire Union – these unions are integrated into public sector unions, causing problems mainly to the public sector. The RTV public office is threatened to lose about 80% of its monthly income. Such a share in the RTV revenue structure is the RTV subscription provided for in this law for the next two years and this law is blocked by a referendum requirement and this income cannot be charged because there is no legal basis. Every month, RTV will be reduced by about 80% of revenue and as many months as this blockade will last, so many times this 80% revenue drop, which is about €8 million per month, will be repeated. The radiotelevision unions, as well as the press unions, which are somehow integrated into the public sector union, have, I think yesterday, addressed the National Assembly, to the leaders of the parliamentary groups, the President of the National Assembly, the initiative to try to solve this problem after 1. 1. which arose from the introduction of this referendum initiative. However, I would also like to answer this, for this is not the way these things can be arranged, as they propose, in another law, to regulate this. Here we have a repeat of the story from the treatment of ZIPR, when attempts were made to regulate certain provisions of the ZUJF with a bypass, and the Legal and Legal Service found that it is not possible to break the law which is in the process and regulates the same social relationship. In the event of this initiative, the same thing is happening. In this way, as proposed by the Slovenian Press Union, the RTV Union and others, these matters cannot be settled until the procedure concerning the law on the implementation of the budget in the Constitutional Court has been completed. If the Constitutional Court allows a referendum and the law is rejected, this year it will not be possible to settle it in this way because this is rejected. I think it would be much better if the RTV unions in this association of public sector unions, in the same association as the Trade Fire Union, could best agree between themselves and withdraw this request for a referendum. As it is said, the Trade Fire Union has put forward an initiative for the referendum, the main commentator of this submitted referendum request is Mr Branimir Strukelj. Although he is a very frequent guest on Radiotelevision, none of the journalists asks him how he will solve the problem of blocking the RTV contribution. It is clear that in this particular case the Trade Fire Union was used only to bring signatures to the National Assembly and not to represent and comment on the initiative put forward and also to provide answers to this. Another problem posed by the proposed referendum initiative is the timely payment of public sector salaries. Minister Šuštersič has already pointed out this, and this may be a much worse problem than it seems at first glance, because such delays cause a lot of problems for those who, due to the delay in salaries, will have difficulties in delaying payment of some of the other obligations they settle when they receive their salary. This is a problem that causes great dissatisfaction, especially in the public sector, because we are all bound to the implementation of the budget, which is covered by this law. The law on the implementation of the budget is a key law for all that is covered by this budget. As it is said, the Trade Fire Union has taken the initiative. It is not known that in any way the Trade Fire Syndicate would organize the collection of signatures for the request under the referendum on schools, kindergartens, and not on the stand. This indicates activity that has been carried out in a rather conspirative and unusual manner. This indicates that there is also some kind of signature lending between trade unions to meet the conditions for submitting these requests. That seems unusual to me, and I don't think it's right. In order to raise a problem with the key acts of the country for the following year - the budgets - this is for sure - already indicated by the event in the State Council when the last day he was able to sit was at the request of Branimir Struklja, a meeting of the State Council was convened where they voted on the possibility of vetoing this law. It is clear that many of these mechanisms are trying to be involved in the establishment of blockades in the country. In view of the fact that the State Council has also been placed in this chain, this seems extremely problematic to me. Rather than allowing the State Council of the previous reference to be one of those who would generate solutions to the problems created by the poor legacy of the former government, he has put himself in the role of further blocking the rescue attempt. The fact that the State Council is even playing tricks on the idea that I would vote veto on the law on budget implementation is a problem. An even bigger problem is that he opened a debate on the potential veto on budget implementation. This is certainly not undetected, not at home, not outside, and a much worse message would have been if this veto had been voted out. It is clear that the previous call of the State Council was not an institution that acted in the direction of addressing the crisis, but rather in the direction of deepening the crisis. As such, he is somehow responsible for the situation they are. The whole law on the implementation of the budget is certainly not inconsistent with the Constitution. If anyone thinks so, he thinks wrong. It is permissible that a separate provision of the law on the implementation of the budget may be incompatible with the Constitution, but this can be regulated in another way. The constitutional assessment of an individual provision is a much more appropriate way to remedy a possible error in the law on the implementation of the budget than a total blockade by making a request for a referendum. Here I would like to say that those who try to resolve an unconstitutional situation in their opinion should only use the means that are proportionate to the resolution of such a problem and the requirement for a referendum is disproportionate in this case. In explaining our request for constitutional review of the referendum, you have a number of reasons why this is necessary and what blockade causes. I'm not going to list these particular reasons because you can read them and comment on them. However, it is appropriate to invite the initiators of the request for a referendum to reconsider whether this request submitted to the National Assembly is proportionate. I propose that this initiative be withdrawn in order to release the implementation of the budget to the full, not only to the extent of temporary funding, and to assess which are the provisions which they consider to be unconstitutional and which trigger a constitutional audit procedure for these provisions. That would be a normal reaction. I hope that such a decision will also be taken before the end of the year by those who have submitted the request. Otherwise, I suggest you support the initiative for constitutional review. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decision was considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. The report will be presented by the chairman of the committee, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At its 43rd urgent meeting, yesterday, 20 December 2012, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a decision on the request of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to assess the constitutionality of the consequences resulting from the postponement of the application or the rejection of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014 at the referendum. The draft decision was tabled by a group of Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. In the debate, the representative of the drafters briefly presented the content of the proposed decision with a justification. She said that the law on the implementation of budgets is an annual law adopted for each calendar year and its implementation is a condition for the implementation of the budget of each year. The unconstitutional situation will arise if the law on the implementation of the budget does not enter into force on 1 January 2013 due to the temporary implementation of the country's budget, as this will result in over-expenditure of public funds in the significantly deteriorating macroeconomic situation in particular areas. This means that the existing financial instability will be so severe that the Republic of Slovenia will no longer be able to finance the obligations granted to citizens and other beneficiaries, in particular Article 50 of the Constitution, the right to social security, and Article 51 of the Constitution, the right to health insurance or health care, which results in a direct violation of the social state as defined in Article 2 of the Constitution. Such a situation also constitutes an intervention in the situation of Slovenia as a democratic republic. This is referred to in Article 1 of the Constitution, which, according to the words of the Constitutional Court, is also based, or in particular, on human dignity. The late entry into force of the law on the implementation of budgets would constitute the inability to implement new projects and measures, making it significantly difficult to draw on European funds while at the same time making excessive use of funds for non-priority purposes. All of this would increase the need for a new debt. Failure to enforce the law will result in serious or irreparable consequences for constitutionally protected goods, in particular in respect of respect for the rule of law, the right to social security and the right to personal dignity. In the debate, members of opposition groups said that the right to a referendum should be defended, they also said that the law on the implementation of the budget should be a law allowing the implementation of the budget of a more technical nature, which is no longer the case in recent years. They are aware of the seriousness of the situation and the importance of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014 and will therefore not oppose the proposal for a decision or have announced that they will abstain from voting. They mentioned the recent decisions of the Constitutional Court regarding the inadmissibility of referenda for the Law on Measures of the Republic of Slovenia to Strengthen Bank Stability and the Law on Slovenian State Holding and the related statements of the Minister of Finance. He is not prepared for further negotiations between the social partners. Members of the coalition groups supported the proposal. The Secretary of State said that the two favourable decisions of the Constitutional Court on the above-mentioned laws were not the end of negotiations with the social partners. As no amendments were adopted to the proposal for a decision at the Committee's meeting, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a decision be adopted in the text before it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u5	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister Dr. Janez Šuštersič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u6	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members! When we successfully issued a state bond in the United States two months ago, in October, this was understood as all but the government's achievement. It was said that President Draghi helped us with his actions to ensure that liquidity was good. Some even went so far as to suggest that if this worked for me, then I guess anyone could. Yesterday, the price of these bonds, their return, the cost we are paying, was first below 5% since we issued it. Yesterday and before yesterday, Mr Draghi did not take any action, nor did the government change, and I am still a finance minister. But something else important happened. The Constitutional Court has adopted a decision which means that referendums and the rights to referenda are not rights, they are not values that are above all else, which is important for this country. When the referendum requirements were tabled, I pointed out that this was true, the price of bonds, I was told that I was imagining some normal fluctuations in the market. The then President of the Republic even publicly advised me to remain silent, and the interest would fall as if the problems disappeared if you did not speak of them, even on your own without taking any measures and without having the opportunity to execute them. I think what happened yesterday clearly shows that such logic is not true. What is also important in what has happened to the decisions of the Constitutional Judges and Judges on the referendum requirements of some, is that the decision on both referenda is taken by an equal vote of 8 to 1. If they were based solely on the content of the laws on which the referendum was tabled, the decision on both laws, the Slovenian State Holding and the Bad Bank would probably not have been adopted by an equal vote. The same ratio of votes suggests that, in my opinion, the Constitutional Court has also considered other matters, in my view, such as the content of the concrete decisions for which the referendum was launched. The fact that there are other equally important constitutional values, such as the sovereignty of the State, such as the provision of basic functions of the State, such as ensuring the existence of the State, if I am somewhat dramatic during a serious economic and social crisis. That the right to a referendum, which is also a very important right for me and I have repeatedly publicly advocated how it is used and in situations where virtually every referendum requirement can be successful because of the dissatisfaction of people with the existing situation, which is always passed on to dissatisfaction with the government and its proposals, no matter what kind of government it is and who it is. There is a lot of experience in this national council. In such a situation, anyone who can place a leg between doors with 2,500 signatures is in a position to force the government to agree to any solution. Firefighters can block the state referendum, while pirates and Kevinrs can block the resolution of the banking system. Not to mention. This is not a situation and this is not a situation that would solve problems that are acute, for which we do not have a year or two. There are things that are more important than social dialogue and are matters that are also more important than trying to reach a conclusion on some solutions that we can all agree on. That is why we also have parliamentary democracy, and that is why we are deciding most things in accordance with the majority principle. The referendum on the budget is a referendum on the basic function of the State, on whether the State can even carry out its basic tasks. That is why I expect you to support this request for a constitutional review of the referendum and thus allow the shortest possible path to get the budget we can implement.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is Mr Jerko Čehovin on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good greetings to the Messengers and the Messengers! Mr. Secretary of State. In Positive Slovenia, in conjunction with the last Constitutional Court decision on the referendum requirement and the Slovenian State Holding Initiative and the so-called bad bank, we estimate that today's debate on whether the Constitutional Court should decide whether the referendum on the Law on the Execution of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014 would result in unconstitutional consequences or whether the National Assembly assesses that this would result in unconstitutional consequences, increased. It is the power to expect that the Constitutional Court, despite the fact that the President of the National Assembly has already called for a deadline for collecting the signatures of the electorate and the electorate, a referendum, thereby prohibiting the further collection of signatures. The last decision of the Constitutional Court means that the Constitutional Court will not allow a referendum on any law that would prevent the government from implementing fiscal measures or that no referendum is allowed which could make the public financial situation worse in Slovenia. In spite of the latter, in Positive Slovenia we would like to point out that the Government is fully responsible for the complications of the referendum initiative concerning the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014. The referendum initiative put forward by the trade unions is seen as a protest by the trade unions against the grave violations of social dialogue unilaterally caused by the Government. In this case, therefore, it is more of a desperate union move, as unions have no other option of forcing the government into dialogue. The latter also acknowledged in their previous public calls and called on the Government to stop the intimidation and start negotiations on the basis of the strike requirements they have recently presented publicly. In Positive Slovenia we do not support the trade union referendum initiatives because the law on the implementation of state budgets is a technical law that allows the same budget to be implemented. In doing so, we point out that the Government is itself responsible for the fact that, according to our assessment, it has submitted to the National Assembly illegal and even illegal proposals for state budgets and the law in question. It is a condition for the submission of the budget to the National Assembly to be accompanied by amendments to the rules supporting individual reduced budget lines or rights. As a result, the Government's administration means that this role is taken over by the law on the implementation of the budget, which is contrary to the specific rules or the legal order in force in its entirety. Therefore, we understand and assess the requirements of trade unions that their expectations are perfectly legitimate. Trade unions shall require that the reduction in salaries for civil servants for 2013 and 2014 should not be higher than agreed with the Public Finance Balance Act, by the Agreement on the Resolution of the Professional Requirements of 10 May 2012, by the Agreement on Measures in the Field of Wages, Remuneration and Other Remuneration in the Public Sector for the Balance of Public Finance for the period from 1 June 2012 to 1 January 2014 and by the Annexes to collective agreements. In Positive Slovenia, we have already called on the Government to reconsider its decisions before and during the consideration of the State budget proposals for 2013 and 2014 and the law on the implementation of those budgets and to provide a basis for dialogue with trade unions, which is essential for the adoption and implementation of proposals to reduce labour costs affecting the public sector. The government has not done so, but put the social partners before the facts. Not only that, the ruling coalition has adopted state budgets and the law for the implementation of budgets which are in breach of other applicable rules, collective agreements and collective agreements relating to the implementation of collective agreements in the public sector. The government has agreed with the trade unions on the adoption of the ZUJF that there will be no further drastic intervention in wages and the system of public servants. Even worse, the Government has deceived the social partners by stating the percentage of wage cuts. It is not possible to reduce wages without amendments to the Public Sector Wage System Act. In order to reduce wages, the Government should negotiate with the trade unions in accordance with that law and the Collective Treaty on Non-economic Activities. These are also required to harmonise wages with inflation. Presidents who will have to reduce labour costs autonomously, without amending the legislation in force, may limit only the amount of overtime and overtime payments and do not replace employees who have retired or resigned. In addition, some who do not have a complete human resources plan and because of the latter, are burdening employees with sedition, risking illegal conduct and thus may cause labour disputes. Therefore, a significant reduction in labour costs is in fact mass redundancies in the public sector. In addition, forgiveness, which sounds paradoxical for the purposes of rapid fiscal consolidation, is an extremely inappropriate measure, as there is a need for even greater wages due to cancellations and discharges, and higher transfers from the budget are needed for unemployment benefits. That the Government has made a mistake in this regard, it is aware that it is only now and that it is trying to correct it with a proposal for amendments to the Public Sector Wages Act adopted yesterday, which foresees a more flexible way of determining the basic salary of the employee, depending on the results of the work or the achievement of the objectives. It is possible to increase the basic salary by 20% and the possibility of reducing such an increase in the basic salary. In this case, too, the Government is in breach of the implementation of the social partnership and the agreement signed by the unions in spring. Therefore, in Positive Slovenia, we are surprised by the provocative or inappropriate statements made by Prime Minister Janez Janša, who recently assessed at the European Union leaders' meeting in Brussels the trade union move for sabotage and exotic referendum blockade. In Positive Slovenia, we estimate that the nickname is exotic within the EU, or democratic and legal states, to the Government, which does not recognise collective agreements and agreements for workers and trade unions as representatives of workers who represent the interests associated with the conditions and price of work, does not want to negotiate at all. In Positive Slovenia, we therefore believe that dialogue with the social partners is necessary, because it is necessary to resolve and not destroy the public sector. Although we do not support the trade union moves or referendum initiatives, we will not support the proposal. The government is fully responsible for the complication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mag. Mr Andrej Šircelj on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The budget is a core document by which the government implements budgetary policy, implements social policy, implements other policies, and if the budget does not work or is blocked, the whole country can also be blocked because all the functions that the government or the state has do not function. This is the most affected people, citizens and citizens. The budget block means that the rights granted to citizens and citizens by the Constitution will not be exercised or exercised. Of course, the government has the opportunity to make payments, so to speak, on the basis of the 12th of the previous year. But what does that mean? This means that the government does not implement its policies, economic policies, especially those which are important for consolidating public finances, for pension reform, for reforming the labour market, including to remedy the banking system and to better manage assets. If this initiative is adopted and represents a delay in the implementation of the budget, this means an economic policy that leads us to a very bad situation, even worse than the situation in which we are today. Why? Because they could not carry out consolidation of public finances. Consolidation of public finances constitutes one of the basic elements for the State to ensure better management conditions, to adopt measures that will provide better management conditions for domestic entrepreneurs, to foreign entrepreneurs and to enable the economy to operate. This also means that in such situations, when the budget could not function, the right to social security, the right to health care and thus the dignity of citizens and citizens would be disabled or at least violated. Nevertheless, this would also have an international impact. The direct international impact in not being able to draw on European funds and the international impact also in that this would probably mean a precedent in the international public in the sense that someone is blocking the implementation of the budget, the budget that we have adopted here, in this House, with a large majority. Blocking the government means that situations can arise that can sometimes be unpredictable and this is not good for citizens and citizens, nor for the reputation of a country abroad or in the world. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a decision to assess the constitutionality of the consequences resulting from the postponement of the implementation of the law on the implementation of budgets for these reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u12	Dear, good-bye! We consider the proposed constitutional assessment of the proposal for a referendum on the implementation of the budget in the SD Group as another search for a way out. We are too well aware of what it means to be unable to implement the budgets adopted, but let us ask ourselves what has led to this situation. Why are we here where we are? The government and the coalition have already adopted a third law, which is not in line with the social partners and threatens a referendum. The negotiations led by the Government are seen as highly symmetrical with regard to the arguments, without the aim of bringing them into line with the disputed solutions. The responsibility for the implementation of the budget is primarily the responsibility of the Minister for Finance, but neither he nor he, nor in this story, the key partners, the Minister of Public Administration and the Minister of Education, have been able to agree with the social partners to record acceptable solutions, so he should first and foremost assume responsibility for the situation but not seek protection before the Constitutional Court. On 13 December 2012, the President of the Government publicly stressed that no one has ever blocked the budget anywhere in the world with a referendum. The President of the Government would be expected to engage himself in such situations in solving the problems that have spurred the decision to referenda, but not to declare irresponsible social partners in the international public. In the SD Group of Members, we wanted an agreement between the trade unions and the government on the implementation of the state budget, which we have supported for the most part. It is quite clear that such an agreement is also hampered by the fact that the Government does not respect the agreements already agreed prematurely. Nevertheless, the government should do everything possible to reach an agreement. The constitutional assessment of the initiative for a referendum on the law on the implementation of the budget makes such an agreement more difficult. In the light of the last decisions of the Constitutional Court, it is clear today that the referendum will not allow what will serve the government as an additional alibi for terminating the agreement. This will not help to solve the problems that have prompted the referendum initiative. The fire will be extinguished, and the crane will continue to rain, and it may ignite into a new, unpredictable fire. In doing so, we would like to point out that such a situation would certainly not have taken place if amendments were adopted that would have deleted the most controversial articles from the budget implementation law on the sanctioning and resolution of the responsible persons of the budget users, the establishment of budget users' plans and the provisions on expenditure over revenue from the implementation of the public service. Nor would such a situation have occurred if the Government had not enforced proposals that were not part of a law that provided only for the implementation of the budget. In the SD Group, we do not take responsibility for the situation, as we have been very active in creating and defending the amendments concerned, so that the law governing the implementation of the budget will also provide us with acceptable solutions for the social partners. But, as usual, there was no obedience. For that reason, the SD Group will abstain from voting. The coalition, which has led to the lack of dialogue and compromise solutions, should vote on its own constitutional review of the law on the implementation of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Braniselj on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u14	Dear Vice-President, Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! No one in this Chamber should have doubts about supporting the proposal to assess the constitutionality of the consequences resulting from the postponement of the implementation of the Law on the implementation of the 2013 and 2014 budgets of the Republic of Slovenia. It is our shared responsibility that, if there is the slightest possibility of an unconstitutional effect, we should request the Ombudsman's response, which is the Constitutional Court. In addition to the reasons given in the proposal of the proposer, I should only point out some of the gravest consequences that will arise from the failure to enforce this law. Within the framework of local self-government: local development infrastructure at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology for the purpose of co-financing investment projects of municipalities, the development of Pomurje and for the development of regions – EUR 40 million less. In the labour market: active employment policy – €43.7 million less. In the area of agriculture, forestry, fisheries and nutrition, less resources for rural development measures and market stabilisation – €33 million less. In the area of transport and transport infrastructure, fewer means for road transport, investment road maintenance, rail transport, infrastructure. Together for about €180 million less. In the area of entrepreneurship and competitiveness, €45 million less resources for growth and business development, promoting foreign investment and economic openness, developing tourism, providing a better business environment for entrepreneurship and competitiveness. As it is said, €45 million is less than money. In the area of environmental protection for approximately €185 million less resources for waste management, water management, regulation of the system in the field of environmental policy. This is mostly about European funds. In the area of health care, €55 million is lower for the purpose of secondary and tertiary health care, of which €31 million is less for investments in public health institutions. Support for technological development projects at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, for development projects, infrastructure – €9 million less and €10 million less. With regard to the fixed assets tax in Article 60 of the Law on the implementation of the budget, we stress that, in the event that the law is not enforced before 1. 1. In 2013, this tax will not be measurable and the budget in 2013 will be reduced for this income, which will not be substituted by any other item. This is an annual obligation that can only be measured if the legal basis for the dose is set before the beginning of the year, since the provision does not contain the possibility of a dose for a proportional part of the year. In short, more than enough additional reasons to seriously assess the occurrence of anti-constitutional consequences. Whatever the decision of the Constitutional Court will be, this will have to be respected. We were also not satisfied with the Constitutional Court's decision to allow a referendum on family law, even though it was a matter of exercising human rights. However, it has not occurred to us that the decision of the Constitutional Court is subject to controversy and the decision is even problematic. With regard to the last two decisions of the Constitutional Court, in the media, in politics, professional and lay public opinion, there were bitter reactions to decisions, also accompanied by the words "the duality of the Constitutional Court", "the political judgement of the Constitutional Court", "the gift or shame of the Constitutional Court", and even "the formal end of the rule of law". It is not proper and inappropriate for us to so easily embarrass the Constitutional Court, which is the fundamental attribute of the Statehood and the Supreme Ombudsman of the Constitution of this country, so let us respect the rule of law, respect the decisions of the judiciary, but, if we are already discussing them, let us discuss this at the professional level and especially after we have read the judgment at all, and let us not forget, the decisions of the Constitutional Court are taken by the most prominent Slovenian judges who have been elected by an absolute majority in this national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! In any case, we are today requesting coalition Members to assess the constitutionality of the consequences resulting from the postponement of the implementation of the law on the implementation of the budget for the next two years. It doesn't make sense to mention again how serious financial consequences can be, since my colleagues have already done so before me. Nor how many jobs are threatened by this move, nor how it blocks the accelerated use of European funds. I am much more saddened by the fact that some of the so-called higher goals, not to say even political objectives, are willing to do virtually anything without looking for the wider consequences for a moment. No one in the Slovenian People's Party denies anyone the right to a referendum initiative, but we would expect at least a handful of responsible behaviour in return. In recent years, when the situation has been very heated and the economic situation is getting worse, we have pointed out in the Slovenian People's Party the danger of referendum mania, which unfortunately brings only political accounting in the long run. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are confident that the Constitutional Court will not allow such a referendum, but we deeply regret that it has even occurred because the damage was done at the very time of the initiative and will be even greater every day in the new year. First of all, it must be said that this is one of the most unusual moves in political practice. You can see this by trying to explain to a foreigner from political circles that a fundamental budget law that allows the implementation of a unanimously supported budget in Parliament is hampered by a referendum blockade. Of course, the question is, "Why do you have a policy if you don't even let them prepare the budget?" It's like the second time. The specificity of this law is that even if the law had been confirmed in a possible referendum, this would continue to cause enormous financial damage due to the delay in enforcement. Respectfully, disagreement with certain solutions is an integral part of the policy, an integral part of the society, an integral part of the dialogue. It is understandable that there are interest groups and it is perfectly normal that trade unions are the most important advocates for workers' rights, and we also absolutely recognise this role in the Slovenian People's Party. But what can be done when their leaders step off the train of rationality and a sense of reality? I would like each of the applicants of the referendum initiative to be able to look at the composition of the budget. Not only did they ask him where he intended to get the money for his wishes, they would also ask him if he had thought in his fight also of thousands of Slovenian companies looking for their opportunity through the use of European funds. Did he think of thousands of unemployed people waiting for State incentives for employment? Did he think that this would put public investment at risk? Obviously not, as the focus is only in an article of the law which indicates certain measures in the public sector, but this effort does not accompany a single piece of self-critility on statistics, so that the number of public servants has been growing for 22 years, and with them the so-called mass of wages. There is also no question here why the number of people in the public sector has practically doubled over the past 20 years. We can ask ourselves if these are really real and essential problems that hinder Slovenia. It is not difficult to be critical of public finances in principle, we can assume that we are still on the safe side of the radar in the next few months, but the question is whether it is right of us to warn politicians that there can be serious difficulties in paying off national obligations, or whether we will be accused of merely threatening again. We sincerely apologize for these so-called threats, but after the money for the payment is gone, when and if that day comes, who will then know the signs of the difference? The law on the implementation of the budget for the next two years is, however, a reflection of the real situation in the Treasury. Once again, it is worth noting that we can no longer be indebted for a longer period of time than we have been in recent years. Every month every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia pays 30 euros only for interest on public debt. Can we imagine? 30 euros. How much longer? Who thinks a bankrupt country is for the better because it has a new opportunity? We don't think there will be consequences. I'm afraid not. I'm afraid the longer they're determined they won't admit what a real picture is, the harder the crash will be on hard ground. Would the resignation of the government, the resignation of the entire parliament, save anything? Let's face it, honestly, whether we believe in a miracle formula that's not going to take anything away, you've borrowed nothing, but somewhere you've found two billion Euros of more funding than we've created. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, however, we do not lose optimism. The proposal for a decision will be supported in the hope that the Constitutional Court will decide the matter as soon as possible and that we can proceed with measures to help our economy in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u17	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u18	It's a very sweet greeting to all of you. Initially, I should like to start with the idea that it is a shame that we have not yet been able to bring under the roof constitutional and legal changes in relation to referendum legislation, regulation. For the first time in history, trade unions require a referendum blocking the implementation of the already adopted state budget for the next two years. I don't know if the initiators and the others who followed them blindly with their signatures know what they can do with this. Let us see how we will be forced to work with the budget tides and outflows in the new year and which areas will feel this most. If the initiators of the referendum have not yet presented this to our citizens and citizens, the latter will have the opportunity to hear it today. I'm just pointing out a few areas. The already coordinated projects in the past, which had a planned increase in funding for 2013, are, for example, co-financing of youth and older people's employment and subsidisation, self-employment, will not be able to live. Some social transfer schemes will also raise problems. The provision of employment rehabilitation services will be dented, which means that the most vulnerable group of unemployed persons will be deprived of employment opportunities. It is also under the existential question that all 34 employment centres, which are employers for the most difficult disabled who cannot be employed in normal jobs, have been put to the test. If I stay with the disabled and a personal assistant, the extension of the Assistant/Assistent programme will not be possible. Thus, a personal assistant of about a thousand of the most difficult disabled and a job of 270 assistants is at risk. About 9 000 deaf people will be denied the right to an interpreter of the Slovenian Sign Language. The budget provided an additional 50 million for scholarships and an additional 23.7 million for school food subsidies. It's gonna be kind of concrete, too. Next year, according to the budget plans, we are expected to draw as much as 1.4 billion European funds. Now this pool of funds that could be spent on new investments and job creation in the economy, on investment in transport and environmental infrastructure, and more, raises a big question. I could still mention it, but I believe that it has been said enough to create a real picture of what it means to assess the unreasonable and unrealistic decision of some public sector unions. While the referendum initiative is a legitimate right, because, in our belief, it is extremely inappropriate for citizens and citizens to decide on this at the referendum, and perhaps not even knowing what would be harmful to them, we think that people cannot decide on it. Members and Members of the DeSUS have seen what blocking the normal implementation of the budget means, so we have joined the co-signature of the request of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to assess the constitutionality of the consequences resulting from the postponement or rejection of the law on the implementation of the budgets in the referendum. In the light of what has been said in our Group of Members, we believe that the referendum on this law is not in place, so, as has already been said, we will support the decision on constitutionality. We also hope that, should this come to pass, the Constitutional Court will wisely conclude that the implementation of the adopted budget with effect from 1 January would result in irreparable damage to the functioning of the State and the provision of certain constitutional rights to our citizens and citizens, and that the incomplete financing from the budget would further undermine the reputation and confidence of the foreign country in our country and, consequently, the inability of the public financial recovery of the country and deepen the impact of the crisis in the country. Incentives of the referendum, which has scissors and canvas in hand, can still withdraw your signatures and thus allow timely and smooth implementation of budgetary obligations, in particular for the benefit of those citizens and citizens who can be identified in previously exposed groups who will be most affected by the non-implementation of the budget. The advocates of the referendum would cause them severe hardships because of their persistence and should therefore withdraw immediately from their intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Minister, Secretary of State, I very much welcome all of you! In New Slovenia, we do not challenge the application of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, and we believe that the initiative of voters to apply for a legislative referendum on the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014 has been submitted in accordance with the rules. Unfortunately, we believed that a referendum initiative would take place because this threat by the first man of the Syndicate of Education, Education, Science and Culture was present throughout the adoption of budgetary acts. We also believe that the Constitutional Court will decide, on the basis of our arguments, in accordance with the Constitution and in the interests of citizens, because the failure to implement the budget paralyses the functioning of the whole country. That's probably what the initiators know. I don't mean just formal instigators, it's a union of professional firefighters, because the main instigator, the main initiator of the initiative, is an informal instigator. If we are already considering the initiators and analysing their statements, then in New Slovenia we find that the idea of a referendum is not a union, not a unionist, but an eminent policy. However, the Parliamentary is an eminent politician who expresses his opposition to this government coalition, which in itself is not problematic. The problem is that the introduction of the referendum initiative has already produced irreparable consequences for all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who will reflect, unfortunately, immediately after New Year's holidays. This needs to be made clear here today that the Slovenian public will understand what it means to implement the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in 2013 in 11 days. In the best case scenario, in the event of a rejection of the referendum in the Constitutional Court, the 2013 budget could only be implemented in early February 2013, in the manner that we adopted it together, including with the work of the opposition. Despite the fact that the government will not be able to implement investment projects that will contribute to the start-up of the economy, it will be a significant one-twelve year. We've talked a lot about construction in the last few days. Projects that could bring new jobs will be blocked, European funds will be slowed down – right here we all had great ambitions. It is also or mainly a political project which has one purpose: to prevent the government from operating, to block the government from operating, to prevent the government from achieving the government's goals and objectives, the government and the coalition from breaking down. It doesn't matter what happens next. This is what we are deeply concerned about in New Slovenia, because we are powerless against those who want to harm this country, so we have much to do here, in this very house. For example, amend referendum legislation. Therefore, the New Slovenia Group supports the proposed decision and expects the decision of the Constitutional Court in accordance with the interests of this country, including economic and political sovereignty and the social state in the first places. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to give responsibility a name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. Mr. Janko Weber has the word, get ready for the mags. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everyone. I'll continue where Mr. Horvat has finished. Responsibility must be given the name and surname, it is true. The responsibility lies with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The unions put a fateful wedge in the coffin when they rejected the law on pension and disability insurance in the previous government and the law on the abolition of work in black and the law on small work. At that time, they were blindly following a policy that was in opposition. They even received support from the Constitutional Court, which allowed the referendum, and thus opened the way for the ruling of the political option that is now under way. That's why this government is responsible. What is this government doing today? It is with pleasure that the Mendra, literally the Mendra, the Union, enjoys all social rights and does not respect any legal order. The unions have also left the Constitutional Court, interestingly. Today we are facing a very open neoliberalism. This is what it is called today, but according to the local word, it is grave capitalism, to which all restrictions are on the way. The fact that today the Minister of Finance in the National Assembly says that it is only by what majority you make a decision in the National Assembly that the content of the laws is irrelevant, and this refers to the decision of the Constitutional Court – my dears, this Constitution, which has been adopted, no longer applies to the Government. Article 1 speaks of Slovenia as a democratic republic. If the minister thinks democracy is just what most people decide, then he's wrong. Democracy is respect for the rules, democracy is primarily respect for the procedure enshrined in the laws and the constitution. But obviously, it doesn't matter to the minister anymore. So, according to the Minister, we no longer live in the rule of law, and what the Government remembers and what most accept is the only thing that can apply. I can't understand, I really can't understand that it's not the content of the laws. So you can write in your marriage anything you want, which most people remember, and it doesn't matter if it's consistent with the Constitution, whether it's consistent with other laws that govern this area. It doesn't matter at all. Do you realize what you are doing and how you are taking the country? The decommissioning of the rule of law means that there is no legal certainty for anyone else, and that the elite, the narrow elite, who wants to release all obstacles to their capital, will peacefully recognise no social rights. If you're talking about a firefighter union like those who are supposed to demand a referendum on the law on budget implementation, look where you're taking this country. This way, the firefighters will come to fire if you have the money if you pay them. The one who doesn't have the money, the firemen won't come to fire. This is the simplest thing to say about what you're doing with this country and where you're taking it. Excuse me, this is not a country where people can live and create. The fact that the Minister intimidates all public officials and all those who receive money from the budget by not having the law on the implementation of the budget enforced will not be possible to pay anything, and that the Government adopts a regulation to delay the payment of public sector salaries – forgive me, my dears, this is in clear contradiction with the Constitution, which proves once again that no legal act has to be respected and you do not want to respect it. Article 148 of the Constitution states: "If the budget is not adopted by the first day of implementation, beneficiaries financed from the budget shall be temporarily financed under the previous budget." No threat of pay being paid, no obligation being covered, cannot be found in any regulation. It is the Constitution, however, that speaks of the need to provide payments, including wages, on the basis of the previous budget, as is appropriate. I would have even more harsh words about how I would express my disappointment at the current government, about the fact that the Minister of Finance is working, but I will remain in what I said – that it is not the Constitution, it is not the rule of law, it is not the social state, it is only the elite and the capital you want. [[End of discussion warning sign]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u23	Thank you very much. He has the floor as a proposalr, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u24	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. What Mr Weber has just said is completely inconsistent with what you have done and done in the previous term. When you speak of the social state, you have adopted the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds in the previous term, and by doing so you have reached exclusively into categories eligible for public funding, to various forms of aid, subsidies, social and other transfers. Exclusively, Mr. Weber, you have reached into this category. You've reduced the subsidies for student diet, for school meals, you've separated [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Ma'am, you'll have your chance. You have separated the possibility of receiving a child supplement and scholarship, either writing one or the other and not both. You wrote in that marriage a lot of other things. You'll read it. However, you have not adopted a single law that would intervene in any way in the rights of those over social transfers. You haven't removed any privileges and eliminated them. Yesterday you fought very hard for the privilege of someone, you fought very hard for the privilege of someone, and you also voted this privilege as the only official in the country who will receive certain transfers or grants or revenues, as would others. With regard to the findings on union developments and negotiations with trade unions, we have also closely monitored the previous mandate as to what has been happening in the Economic and Social Council in the negotiations with trade unions. Dear Mr Weber, your government has failed to conclude any of these trade union agreements in one way or another. We were not members of the Economic and Social Council, we did not have any afternoon meetings and discussions with the unions so that a scenario could be made to disrupt your government's proposals. You've done everything within your government coalition to break down, everything. We had the case of Zares, LDSa, one by one were leaving the coalition, and you ruled out DeSUS yourself. Here I recall Mr President of the Government when he said, "From now on, negotiations with trade unions are over." And they haven't even started well. The Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which was an added value of the previous government coalition, fell because of a small fraction of the union's demand for wage coordination, and you broke it. You said, end, no eights or what it was, and the unions themselves decided to – I don't know who participated there, but the unions decided to referendum. We wouldn't have filed him for the law on pension and disability insurance. Disrespecting the rule of law is a serious accusation. We respect everything. When the Constitutional Court decided that there was no need for the law on pension and disability insurance or that there were no conditions for it to stop, we went to a referendum and decided, as we thought it was right at the time. That's why I think these accusations are very much for the hair attracted. At the time when we considered, even in the previous mandate, that any measure by the Government was inappropriate, we made a request for constitutional opinions. We've put some in. Some are the Constitutional Court because, due to the early elections, the conditions were no longer met, they rejected because the elections and several Members of Parliament who signed in that quota were no longer given a mandate. And we didn't protest anything about it against the Constitutional Court, but it did. You can take a look at some of these cases. Like you, we use all the legitimate and legal means provided by the Rules of Procedure that the Constitution allows us to do. We have not used any other means in the previous term than those permitted by the rule of law in this Chamber, neither outside nor outside. So it's a permanent beating about what someone respects and what doesn't, a serious problem. In the previous term, in the mandate of the previous Janša government, it happened that an agreement was reached with the trade unions on a salary system that lasted 5 or 7 years ago and ended, as it was, in unanimity, but with much support from the unions, even though then what happened was. Even in this mandate, we have reached a strong enough consensus on pension reform in the Economic and Social Council, even so much consent that the opposition parties supported this solution and the constitutional opinion has also upheld it. The difference between your pension reform and that was in this, and it was probably decided in the Constitutional Court that this has immediate effects, and yours has had them in five years, after two terms. That was the difference. The moment when the Constitutional Court did not decide in accordance with expectations, it withdrew through the Constitutional Court. We see this now, and with a very high level of consensus it has decided whether it is permissible to hold a referendum on the Slovenian State Holding Act or not. With a very high level of consensus, almost perfect, constitutional judges are discredited. That is true, and the rule of law, Mr Weber, is not only when it responds to Social Democrats or Positive Slovenia, but the rule of law is another time. When you talk about rights when you talk about social issues, first look at the actions you have taken in the previous term and what difficulties have been encountered in this mandate, when we have adopted and intervened, especially with the Public Finance Balance Act, in those rights that you have overlooked. There's a difference between you and us. Here is the big difference between us and you, you've reached into rights, I'll say, state pensioners, farmers who didn't even have the opportunity to pay their contributions, they didn't have the opportunity, and you took 200 euros away from them, those rich state subsidies, that 80-year-old peasant women could even pay their bills. You did it. It was your social state, but when you proposed, I don't know, some measures for, I don't know, a pensioner or a widow, for example, after military insurance, it was a completely different story. Look what happened, because everything is accessible, everything in magnetograms, everything is in the files of the National Assembly and you can look at it all. Such accusations, to say the least, are highly problematic and are also irresponsible. They're irresponsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Procedural Mr. Franz Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Vice-President, I would like my colleagues on the right and left to allow me to say what I mean. I suggest in a procedural manner, Mr Vice-President, that you try to limit the level of debate that has developed at this time in the National Assembly. It is those who are not happy with our work gathered outside the market that remind us of the level of dialogue we have in the National Assembly. I have to be honest with you that I don't like this way by any chance, and it's not for the people we're sitting in the National Assembly. Please allow such discussions to be limited and also to limit intercoms. There are some other things I'd like to tell you for a moment. Everything we benefit from today's debate does not serve the agenda we are talking about. I'm gonna touch the firefighters the most right now. Two days ago, I was on the spoils of the Firehouse Association of Slovenia. They don't talk about things like that. These people don't think about money, they think about helping people. Local communities are the ones that provide money for the operation of firefighters. Please do not use firefighters in these debates, which are neither fruitful nor useful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Only because the procedural proposal was directed at the President. At the moment, I can only say that the level of debate cannot be limited by me, but must be limited by everyone. I agree, however, that I ask all those involved or present in the Chamber not to disturb the debaters and to let everyone say what he wants to say. Procedural proposal, Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u28	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues in this Chamber! I propose procedurally, if it is possible for all those who have already been Members of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly to refrain from what has been done in the previous term, what the previous Government has done, what this government is doing, because this mutual accusation will not lead us anywhere, it is not a solution. Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, let us focus on the future. We have problems and problems today. At each session, at each item of the agenda, a certain Member and Members are literally using the National Assembly for your personal rhetoric, your personal war. This rhetoric has brought us into today's situation. Mr Tanko, as the leader of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, I ask that, if only possible, you, the first among the same, and also on the side of Mr Webra, if it is only possible that you do not intervene in return, as you do, your government, our government – one and the other government has brought Slovenia into the situation we are in, so please refrain from these comments, because it is getting bad for me when I listen to how you have behaved today. The fact is that we have problems, that the situation is negative, that we have received an under-estimation of the public as politicians and politicians, and therefore it is time to put an end to the past and to the blows under the belt. The fact is that there are problems and that we have to solve problems. Have a little more culture, dialogue, and then we'll all win together. If we don't, we're gonna kill ourselves, and we're gonna embarrass ourselves from day to day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u29	Thank you very much. I think I have already given Mr Franz Jurša, in my reply and explanation, the answer I must give you. Everyone has to do it on their own. Let's move on to the debate. Mag. Katarina Hočevar, prepare Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. I'd like to say hello to you too! I myself will support the decision on the requirement to assess the constitutionality of the law on the implementation of budgets. In my debate, I will limit myself to the future, to the young. I would like to draw attention to the issue of what young people lose by not implementing the law. There will be no basis for establishing a student fund. The Ministry calculated that the available resources would only be sufficient for a few months next year. Strongly limited programmes such as the First Challenge, assistance for self-employment of young people. The first challenge was the programme which our innovative young people with entrepreneurial ideas eagerly expected and the failure to implement this programme would be a serious slap for this segment of our youth. By not executing the budget, it will also lack funds to subsidise monthly tickets, which I believe was one of the better solutions or decisions of this government for our youth. There is no doubt that the untimely implementation of budgets will have a negative impact on all cash public funding, on indirect, direct budgetary users, on the operators of public powers and, last but not least, on the economy. The negative consequences will be felt by every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, and I therefore call on trade unions to reconsider and withdraw the referendum initiative. Unfortunately, I must say that I see this decision as an unreasonable decision by some unions, which, in my opinion, kind of reminds me of the action, as if they had poured gasoline into a diesel engine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, prepare the mags. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I truly and sincerely wish to express my satisfaction and gratitude to the opposition's colleagues and colleagues who do not oppose the proposal for a decision, saying they will not vote against it. This shows that we all understand together that it is an extremely problematic act of some unions or, as I have already mentioned in the position of the New Slovenia Group, also politicians. We are concerned that the non-implementation of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014 from 1 January 2013 will have significant financial implications for the individual, for the families and also threaten the planned development measures of this country. The decision to block by some unions is a direct increase in costs and a reversal of most of the positive measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in 2012. These are things that really concern us in the New Slovenia Group. The temporary financing measure of the budget means the implementation of the 2012 budget after twelve years, and the question raises the drawing of more than €500 million of European funds for investment, for new growth and for the new jobs we need bloodyly in this country, especially for our young educated citizens and citizens. Unfortunately, among other things, it will not be possible to provide additional resources for active employment policy, the promotion of entrepreneurship and development and the strengthening of competitiveness. I conclude with the last call by the initiator to reconsider and withdraw their initiative. It'll be good for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mag. Maja Potrat, prepare the mag. Ivan Vogrin. Next up is Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u34	Thank you. The Constitutional Court's decision on this initiative will not be different, so all those who oppose unions have been hit and flown into the sky when they accuse everyone on average. The fact is that Article 148 of the Constitution provides financing, temporary financing after twelve. But the coalition is excellent at performing spin. As far as European funds are concerned, the budget has already said that the drawdown is unrealistic. I won't support you. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič is next. Prepare the mags. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! If the trade unionists withdraw this referendum initiative, it is possible that payments in the public sector may occur some day before the announced 10th in January. If not, public sector workers and workers should know that trade unions are responsible for only the 10th and probably the following months until payment of salaries. With these measures, by not implementing the budget, we have put approximately EUR 600 million under question. As far as the use of European funds is concerned, we have a billion and a billion and a half requests to get them. For three years we note that this will probably not be possible, but not because it is now unrealistically set up, but because three years in the previous government, unfortunately, no one has done anything. All 8.7 billion euros, which has left this country in debt and budgeted, is a bubble that is simple and has to break once and for all. There is no possibility and responsibility for this is vested in the Government, the one who commissioned it, who did it, but unfortunately there were no specific responsibilities. It could have been the Minister of Finance, Social Affairs, Education, etc. have this big money and borrow and then spend it on. While this has been spent, 15,000 people have taken less than €180 to pay for basic matters. It is high time that the inflated balloons around some unions, including Branimir Struklj, are stopped. But not in this story to involve voluntary firefighters, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Weber, will never be dependent on you, and thank God it is not, so we still have it. Except perhaps around €3221, which is 21 times higher than the lowest, Mr Milan Kučan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u37	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that I had to delete some of them because of the time spent, it is Mr Ivan Hršak's turn. You don't want to? Mr. Bojan Starman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u38	Since I do not have much time myself, I would once again urge the candidates of the referendum to withdraw this initiative because this will prevent chaos. We have heard a lot about what non-implementation of the budget would bring. No one has yet said all that this would mean – inability to be indebted, chaos, irregular payments can occur in all areas, we will spend where we should not, etc., so once again, I think the matter is too serious and that it would be right to withdraw or want this constitutional initiative to be dealt with as soon as possible and to resolve positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I take it that all of you who have declared yourselves worthy of this have been given the floor because the time set for the debate has not yet expired, and I ask whether, under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, anyone else would like to discuss it. I can see that. That's why I'm opening a list of debaters. Please sign up. Mr. Mag. Ivan Vogrin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! I was surprised by the request for a referendum on the budget. I believe that everyone wants their piece of cake from the budget and that no one is satisfied at this time, but this is kind of a big, smart nonsense. The rights that go according to our laws and regulations may be different, so that I think it's a desperate attempt to try to tell the government to listen to those who feel hurt. I therefore join those who say that it would be wise for applicants to request a referendum to resign. If, under the changed circumstances, the Constitutional Court has rejected the request for a holding and bank referendum, it is clear that it will also reject the request for a budget referendum. For this reason, the matter is somehow pointless. What has been said here is this mutual accusation of how someone has done and what has done in the past, it seems to me that it is not productive, because the fact is that the state has created less than it has been spending for some time and that forces will have to be directed towards creation and not just to division and consumption. I will support the proposal for constitutional review. However, I think, and it would make sense for the applicants to give up. Once again, the circumstances have apparently changed so much that the Constitutional Court has decided in two laws as it has decided. Sometimes you just have to step back. Even in this case, because this is a unique case where someone is putting forward a referendum initiative for a budget referendum, which in some ways is a really serious surprise, nonsense, and it would make sense at this stage to stop horses and start thinking differently. The fact is, it's the government that's most responsible. This responsibility should be exercised. But time will show what was right, not so much who was right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Nice greetings to all colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! The Budget Implementation Act is a fundamental implementing act without which the 2013 budget already adopted cannot be implemented. If the law on the implementation of the budget is not implemented, it will not be possible to further finance measures to promote internationalisation and foreign direct investment, which constitute the necessary source of fresh capital. In the event of the suspension of the implementation of the law, approximately 200 jobs will remain due to the lack of additional resources for entrepreneurship and the competitiveness of the unfulfilled. Each month's delay in the implementation of the budget poses a greater risk of the final loss of European funds in 2013 and a conscious failure to European funds worth more than EUR 500 million. The government has prepared a number of improvements and simplifications with a view to increasing the use of European funds for next year, including those projects adopted in the previous government. All of this means that the existing financial instability will be so severe that the Republic of Slovenia will no longer be able to finance the obligations granted to citizens and citizens by Article 50 of the Constitution, that is the right to social security, and Article 51 of the Constitution, that is the right to health care, which also results in a violation of the social state. Such a situation constitutes a serious intervention in the position of Slovenia as a democratic republic. Democratic social regulation is one that guarantees respect for human rights, the rule of law and the equality of all citizens and citizens before the law. For all these values we have sworn plebiscitely, on 23 December will be 22 years of this, and we have fought for them. These values bind and require adults and mature people who have the ability to influence and decide to make reasonable decisions and to be aware of the consequences of their decisions. I therefore appeal that the request for a referendum be withdrawn and I support the proposal for a decision to assess the constitutionality of the consequences resulting from the suspension of the application or the rejection of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. It should be asked why this initiative has taken place at all, and the way in which the law on the implementation of the budget has been adopted and drafted tells a great deal. The Legislative and Legal Service said that the law, which should be of a purely technical nature, gives the government a great deal of potential for the subsequent reallocation of funds between budget lines. Now listen to lectures on the fact that we are a legal and social state after the government saves at all times, and when this budget, which will enter into force in 2013, reduces the scope of rights at all levels, when the government has successfully challenged the opposition between the real and public sectors, that now those who do not understand that trade unions at a time when the government did not want to negotiate have no other means than to somehow prove that there is a need to talk. There's only one experience I can think of. On Tuesday, 30th, negotiations were also held between the union and the Ministry of Finance just prior to the submission or collection of signatures for the referendum. At the moment when it was reported that the initiators had failed to gather enough votes, the Minister rose up and left because he no longer felt it worth negotiating with the unions. It's a negotiation culture. What do we hear now? Following a decision by the Constitutional Court, this Minister's statement could be heard on the national radio. With regard to today's decision by the Constitutional Court, I expect that there will be no referendum on the budget and therefore I do not know why we should negotiate with its investors. There's the heart of the problem. Disrespect for social dialogue, for people to hope to talk about who is the one who invests here. He is a citizen of this country and has a constitutional right, only the conditions must be met. So you know, it's old fogging. I have to admit that I did not behave very well before, because I also made some kind of call, but when the leader of the largest coalition party behaves by lying publicly here, then there is nothing else left if you don't have time to discuss. It was time, and if you look at that as a proponent he had 45 minutes plus 15 minutes of introductory minutes, plus for the sending group, and we 10 minutes of it all together, then an equal dialogue is impossible. Why a lie? When it is done, I hope that a proper expert analysis of the effects of the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources – I hope that the Government will not interfere with that report, as the model Angela Merkel reached out to the report in Germany – and when this report is made available on the basis of preliminary findings, the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds has achieved its fundamental purpose, namely that measures are aimed at getting more assistance as needed. Raising the minimum wage and participation of workers in profit – not necessarily as the Social Democrats wanted – are only two measures that fly not to those who are the highest, but to those who are affected. One last thing. The amendment adopted in the budget, which led to the opposition's first budget support in this country, shows that they will be brought into very strange waters. The Minister's and also Tank's talk on this already shows that they will not be carried out as intended. What happened yesterday on the board with the School Food Act is a legal stunt for this national assembly, and I am sorry that this is happening in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u46	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues! I thought that a step forward, a step towards the good of Slovenia and that the opposition was aware of the situation, was taken with great agreement for the adoption of the budget and of ZIPR, which was also supported by opposition Members. It was commendable. But this reason, this hope faded very quickly. I am convinced that something like this cannot be done in other European countries, that someone is blocking the budget and that this will cause irreparable consequences for Slovenia. Those who have stopped the budget should be aware that "they hang their own rope around their necks" because this is why the public sector will be most affected. On the other hand, the development of Slovenia will also be affected. This stops the drawing-up of European funds, one of the most important items in the revenue of the budget for the next two years. We all know that the drawdown of European funds in recent years has not been the most successful and that in the future, given the European budget, these resources will continue to decline. Instead of stepping together to do all the programmes where these European funds could draw on us, we are having a new blockade. I don't understand. I will support this proposal for a non-constitutional decision. I would once again appeal to all the initiators of the referendum to withdraw the matter, in particular to all the members of the union who submitted this, that they are aware that they have been misled and that the worst is written only by them and that it is personal partial interests, the promotion of some individuals, not for the good of the community and for the good of Slovenia. I am convinced that the many who contributed to this signature is aware of the consequences of its signature or what this means for all citizens. Two million Slovenians can't be the hostages of one group. I would also like to draw attention to the words made by Mrs Potrat concerning the law on the sharing of profits for employees. This law was adopted within the mandate of the previous Janša government and profit-sharing must be made first. However, Slovenian companies are sinking into losses, including poor governance. Let's do something to ensure that Slovenian companies operate successfully and that the basis for paying the profits will also be the employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. When we talk about the initiative for a constitutional review of the law on the implementation of the budget, there is no doubt at all – the Constitutional Court will certainly reject the referendum, but it is unacceptable that the government does not negotiate with the unions during this period because it knows that the trade union requirements are justified. The minister here quietly explains that he's not moved by anything, he's not interested. For him we are people of numbers, not someone who would like to draw attention to the problem of whether he can still do his job or not, if the government by measures so drastically intervenes in his wages and conditions he would like to have to do his job. In this case, even as professional firefighters. When we talk about the law on the implementation of the budget, I am sure that the Constitutional Court will not look again, for example, at Article 64 of the law on the implementation of the budget, which speaks of the need for all heads of public institutions receiving funds from the budget to be punished with EUR 2 000 500 if they do not follow government action. What exactly does that mean with professional firefighters? The government instructs municipalities, that is, all users, to reduce funds. If we look at firefighters — if you reduce their funds and if someone who runs this facility wants to keep the number of employees — he'll be fired and he'll pay the penalty. This is what the law on the implementation of the budget is all about. I would be very happy if the Constitutional Court looked at this article 64, because some institutions have the opportunity to adapt and others do not. The Forest Office is practically entirely dependent on the budget. If he can follow this, he'll have to forgive the foresters. Primary schools are similar. They don't perform on the market, they don't have any other income than from the budget. If you limit them, the teachers will have to forgive. If they do not do so, they will pay a fine of EUR 2 000 500. But, look, one primary school principal has a net salary of 1,000 500 euros, and you're charging him with a fine of 2 thousand 500. If we make a comparison, for example, with the director of the healthcare home, where we can track the salaries of 9,000 euros by public means, it is certainly a disproportionate measure. But you say people are numbers to you, and it doesn't matter who does what kind of work, what kind of income he has, what kind of social situation he has. This doesn't matter to the government. The law on the implementation of the budget makes this clear. Therefore, the unions oppose this and expect the government to negotiate with them. Do not condemn trade unions to prevent economic growth. Apparently, the government's actions reduced the economy in Slovenia in one year. Gross domestic product fell by 3.3% in the last quarter, due to government measures and not to market losses or the like, which occurred when the global economic crisis occurred. Due to the Government's actions, since there are no calculations on the implications of the Public Finance Balance Act, there are absolutely no calculations. You have no calculations on the consequences of the Slovenian State Holding Act, the content of which is not of interest to the Constitutional Court. You don't have any calculations on what bad banks will bring. When we talk about companies – yes, the government’s interest is to create unemployment at the expense of those who will become new owners of these companies and who will want to earn as much as possible and to exhaust these companies. That's what the unions are warning us about. However, as I said in the introductory implementation, trade unions made a key mistake when they invaded the then politicians and supported the referendums. Today, this policy literally destroys them. The fact that you want to overcome the guilt that anything is going to be wrong in this country due to the non-admission of the law on budget implementation is incorrect, so I call on the Government to negotiate with the unions and eliminate these anomalys, which are the law on budget implementation. This is possible because the Government has an extremely large mandate to redistribute the funds itself within this budget, beyond the National Assembly. Which, by the way, is just another justification for exceeding the country's legal standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u49	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the proposal for a decision, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. The decision on the draft decision will take place today, in the framework of the votes, 15 minutes after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, that is to say, a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on gambling in the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Aleš Zivkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling was forwarded by the Government to the National Assembly. Allow me to present briefly the reasons for the changes made, the purpose and the content of the law. The draft law establishes a legal basis for the transfer of supervisory tasks over the development of gambling from the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which will enable the abolition of the office as a body in the composition of the Ministry of Finance. The proposed amendments and additions to the Gambling Act follow the objective of rationalising public sector operations, in particular with regard to staff and financial resources. This will reduce public financial expenditure and optimise and rationalise the system of control in the field of gambling adaptation. In a joint body, it will be possible to achieve greater effectiveness in controlling gambling. This will also ensure a comprehensive treatment of the activities of concessionaires in this field with the Authority, which is an advantage both in terms of control over public financial revenues and in terms of the involvement of state authorities in the detection and prosecution of offenders. The main solutions that the law brings are as follows. The tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia shall be designated as the authority responsible for overseeing the adaptation of gambling. The supervisory tasks will be carried out by gambling inspectors as authorised officials of Durs, regulatory tasks, management of procedures, award of concessions, licensing and consent, and the management of registers of concessionaires and organizers will be under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. The termination of the Office and the organisation and the staff issues will be resolved by a regulation of the bodies in the composition adopted by the Government and by acts of systematisation adopted by Durs. As a result of the termination of the Office, lower costs are expected due to the cancellation of business premises and the more rational functioning of the public administration. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the proposed text of that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. The Committee's report will be submitted by a member, Mrs Patricia Schulin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u52	President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! At its 42nd urgent meeting on 12 December this year, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling submitted to the National Assembly by the Government with a proposal for a hearing following a reduced procedure approved by the College of the President of the National Assembly. In addition to the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia, the Committee took note of the amendments of the four coalition groups — Slovenian Democratic Parties, the National Gazette, the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS — to Articles 3, 5, 11 and 12 of the legislative proposal, on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, and on 12 December of the replacement text of the 4th chapter of the basic legislative proposal submitted by the Government on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance said that the revised text lays the legal basis for the transfer of supervisory powers over the organisation of gambling with the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of gambling, which is being abolished, to the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, by transferring certain tasks carried out so far by the Office to the Ministry of Finance. He stated that the current competence of the Office combines both regulatory administrative and supervisory functions, which does not constitute a systemic solution, and stressed that the proposed amendment provides more appropriately for the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia as the authority responsible for the supervision of gambling management by the Ministry of Finance to carry out regulatory tasks and procedures. The introduction of such optimisation and rationalisation of the control system will reduce government spending at the same time, according to the Government's assessment. In the course of the presentation of the opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stated that there were no comments on the amendments tabled by the coalition members of the Legislative and Legal Service. In the discussion, the members and members of the Committee, having expressed their concern at the discussion on the purpose of abolishing the Office, noted that the organizational solutions introduced were based on the basis of valuable support, but that a more appropriate approach should be made to systemic, development-oriented solutions to the entire field of gambling in the Slovenian area. In this regard, the chairman of the committee was informed that a system law was being prepared, which is expected to introduce radical changes in the rather exposed legal field of gambling at the beginning of next year. The representatives of the National Council of Disabled Organizations and the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia expressed their support for the text presented and, at the same time, stressed the importance and wide vital dimension of the irreplaceable financial resource on the basis of concessional gambling benefits for disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations in Slovenia. At the time of its consideration, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 3, 5, 11 and 12 of the legislative proposal, the Slovenian Democratic Party, the National Gazette, the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS, and voted on and adopted, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which forms an integral part of the report, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u53	Fellow Patricia Šulin, you can stay right behind the speaker's desk because it is now your turn on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group to present your position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u54	President, once again, thank you for your word. I will present, as has already been said, the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling contains less difficult amendments and additions to the law, which will allow the Office for the Control of Gambling and the transfer of work of its tasks to the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, and part of the tasks will be carried out by the Ministry of Finance. Certain tasks carried out so far by the Office for the Control of Gambling, such as monitoring, collecting, checking and analysing the data necessary for the allocation and extension of concessions or licences and keeping the register of concessionaires, organizers of classical gambling, casinos and gaming salons, shall be transferred to the Ministry of Finance. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Gambling, with the proposed addition of the Office for the Control of Gambling at Work, which carries out the tasks of inspection of gambling management, the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, pursue the aim of rationalising the public sector. The tasks of the supervisory authority will be carried out by authorised officials, namely gambling inspectors, within the framework of the job tasks as defined in the Durs job systematisation. The gambling inspectors will have to comply with the conditions laid down by the law governing inspection supervision for the performance of inspection tasks. The authority to carry out the inspection tasks will be demonstrated by a business card and a badge issued in accordance with the law governing the tax service. The gambling inspector shall not be a shareholder, a member of the board of directors or a member of the supervisory board of the company which organises gambling. This amendment will ensure a comprehensive treatment of the business of concessionaires in the field of gambling with one authority, which is an advantage both in terms of control over public financial revenues and in terms of the involvement of state authorities in the detection and prosecution of offenders. The abolition of the Gambling Control Office will also reduce the cost of renting business premises and operating costs of business premises. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the gambling law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u55	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u56	Your Honor! Interestingly, both of us are from Nova Gorica, and we both know gambling, and we have such diametric evaluations of this law. The law establishes a legal basis for the transfer of powers to control gambling from the Office for the Control of Gambling at Durs. The specific tasks carried out so far by the Office for the Control of Gambling are transferred to the Ministry of Finance, all with an excuse to save money. Social Democrats believe that the supervisory authority should still keep a register of concessionaries, organizers of classical games, casinos and gaming salons. We also believe that in Article 107, reporting should be maintained to the government and not only to the Minister of Finance, because of the transparency of the functioning of this area. We believe that the surveillance of gambling should be strengthened. But we know that's not gonna happen. According to the Social Democrats, this area should be supervised by an independent agency, because this area is particularly subject to corruption. A professional association of gaming salons sent us an interesting letter. I will read only one part: "We are surprised why the Ministry of Finance or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is trying or wants to introduce such a gambling policy, which will once again result in uncontrolled gambling, increase the possibility of money laundering and corruption while increasing the level of consumer addiction and allowing minors to play. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has, following a reduced procedure, prepared a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Gambling, which abolishes the only professional, non-political authority for gambling." A professional association is pointing to something. They want more control, which is very commendable. But the government obviously doesn't want to hear it. However, we expect the government to implement the Strategy for the Development of Gambling in Slovenia, prepared by the previous government. The strategy can also be modified, but it is necessary to get tourists who will play in our gaming rooms and do not count on domestic players. In view of the fact that, after reporting to the media, experts from the supervisory boards give in to the pressure of the Ministry of Finance, we cannot get rid of the feeling that the gaming activity in Slovenia is sinking. Especially when power struggles, how it will recruit, not how it will save the economy. We will oppose the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling because we believe that an independent and independent body should be involved in this area, not to share powers between the Ministry of Finance and Durs, and thus to increase transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u57	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Bojan Starman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u58	Have a nice hello to you all. In the Civil Gazette, we will support the amendment of the Gambling Act. This is only one in a series of organisational changes in public administration. In some ways, the Office for the Control of Gambling will move into the Ministry of Finance, which is also under the auspices of the Customs Administration. I think that this will achieve greater rationalisation of control, allow greater professional and computer support to all the things that are happening, so that these objectives are achieved and we will support these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u59	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Roman Zveglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u60	Good day to you all! I don't know if I'm the best fit for a position, because I've never bought any luck in my life, and I've never stepped foot in a playroom. But despite all that, I hope that the gambling will not be the ones that will save this country, but that it will be a job and a fair pay for the job. Once again, with the amendment of the Law on Gambling, we are in a hurry today so that, as of 1 January next year, the delegation of powers from the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to control gambling to the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia will normally take place. However, certain tasks shall be delegated to the Ministry of Finance. The matter has already been set up at the time of the new government's launch, and we are only implementing it now. This is one of the things that can be controlled by authorized inspectors, and it is not necessary for us to have a special office to do so. At the same time, it is worth saying that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we have already expressed our disappointment that if we are already interfering with the Law on Gambling so that we can change it well. This area requires thorough changes and a new system approach. According to our data and the Ministry's assurances, it is already actively working on this and the first drafts can be expected in the first months of the following year. We look forward to them in the Slovenian People's Party with impatience. The amendments we have discussed today on the bench will be supported by the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u61	On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Maria Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. The proposal for this novel foresees the abolition of the Office for the Control of Gambling. This is the body that performs regulatory administrative functions and also supervisory functions over the adaptation of gambling. This does not mean that the area will be left without a regulator and a supervisor. This novelis partially transferring the tasks currently performed by this office to the Tax Administration, which is now taking over the overall control of gambling through inspectors. The second part of the tasks, monitoring, collection and analysis of the data necessary for the allocation and extension of concessions or licences and the maintenance of the register of concessionaires, organizers, casinos and salons shall be transmitted to the Ministry of Finance. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we agree that the new regime follows the principle of the economic use of public funds, as operating costs are decreasing. Greater efficiency and transparency in supervision are also expected, as this work will be done by highly qualified persons. We estimate that control will not only be what it has been before, but we believe it will be improved, better. Inspectors will have the opportunity to build on their knowledge in terms of the flow of information and expertise during tax control and the control of gambling. As a result, we expect that the use of this knowledge in practice will show good results. The Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia estimates that what we are monitoring today with this novel and in the list of all recent and future changes with regard to the abolition of offices or agencies, under the condition that we continue to carry out our duties, we are very rational in all aspects of public administration. This novel will be supported by MEPs and DeSUS Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u63	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Mr Secretary of State with co-workers! With the New Slovenia programme, we have committed ourselves to rationalising the public sector, and with the signed coalition contract, we have committed ourselves to reviewing all public administration institutions and, after careful consideration, reducing their number. The most important reasons for rationalising public sector operations are the economic situation and the tightening public financial situation in the Republic of Slovenia. Following the current regulation in the gambling law, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Control of Gambling Control, which is established as a body in the Ministry of Finance, is overseeing the development of gambling. In addition to overseeing gambling, the Office for the Control of Gambling is also carrying out professional tasks related to the allocation and extension of concessions and licences and maintains various databases. With the current amendment of the Law on Gambling, the legal basis for the transfer of powers to control the organisation of gambling with the Office for the Control of Gambling at the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia is established, and this office as a body of the Ministry of Finance is hereby terminated. Certain tasks carried out so far by the Office for the Control of Gambling, such as monitoring, collecting and analysing the data necessary for the allocation and extension of concessions or licences and the maintenance of the register of concessionaries, organizers, casinos and gaming salons, shall be transferred to the Ministry of Finance. The tasks of the authorised officials will be carried out by the gambling inspectors within the framework of the tasks of the job as defined in the systemisation of the jobs of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. The abolition of the Gambling Control Office will reduce to a certain extent the material costs that have so far been earmarked for the operation of the Office. These are in particular the cost of renting premises for this office and operating costs. With the merger of the Office for the Control of Gambling and the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, technical, human resources and administrative processes will be optimized. In this way, the effectiveness of the control of the Authority is enhanced, good practices and knowledge can be shared between different areas and the optimal use of human resources. This means that concessionaires in the field of gambling will be dealt with in a comprehensive manner with one authority. This ensures better control of public finances. In the New Slovenia Group, we are aware that the authorities or organisational schemes themselves do not exercise control. In the field of gambling, monitoring is of paramount importance, and it is therefore extremely important that these people, who will be responsible for the control of gambling, strive to ensure that this control is also carried out optimally. This is not only about financial control, it is also about the control of gambling because gambling, I underline, can have very negative sociological effects and impacts. We know a lot of individuals who are addicted, who are very diseased, who are addicted to gambling, which, as a result, leads to a person’s failure to destroy whole families. This is also the task of legislators. The New Slovenia Group will closely and closely monitor the new organisation of gambling control. We call on the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia to improve the function of control over gambling with new organisation. In the New Slovenia Group we support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u65	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Aloj Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u66	Your Honor! With the amendment of the Act on gambling, a legal basis is established for the transfer of supervisory functions over the development of gambling to the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the regulatory and administrative authorities to the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Control of Gambling is hereby dismissed. As a rule, the shortest laws pay special attention. The reorganisation is justified by the government's optimisation and rationalisation of the control system. In fact, it is the first step towards the already announced centralisation of certain supervisory functions. In the middle of next year, the tax and customs administrations are expected to be joined together, and the reorganisation of the tax administration by redistribution of personnel is likely to follow, and I quote, as discussed in the coalition contract, this is the financial police. What is not questionable is the dissatisfaction of the authorities and of others, including users, with the functioning of these institutions, with their functioning and effects. In the Committee's debate, it was announced that there was also a system law on gambling in preparation. Major changes should be introduced or at least proposed. The representative of the Government on the Committee argued that these amendments would reasonably expect better control within the framework of the tax administration, including and in particular due to good infrastructure or support and thus open possibilities for the transfer of knowledge and better flow of information. I am alone because of years of experience and many associations and divisions that I have witnessed to them, very skeptical. It is unreasonably expected that a good tax inspector, regardless of what formal title we give him, can be created on a quick basis or by a decree. Experience with Austrian neighbors shows that it takes several years for a worker to acquire adequate knowledge, skills, and skills. That's why there's a tax academy. If we have a young and poorly trained worker in the first reviews, it is in the reputation, and it is essential for both the institution and it. Today's solutions are truly organizational. We expect a timely, serious and professional debate on substantive issues in Positive Slovenia to obtain a reputable, independent tax administration, including with the field of gambling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u67	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We do not have any amendments, so I am concluding a second reading of the bill. We will decide on the bill today, as part of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a bill on the ratification of an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank on the thermal power plant. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Secretary of State, Mr Aleš Živkovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u68	Thank you very much, President. Messengers and Members, welcome again! You have before you the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank. This is part of loans of €440 million to be leased by the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant to finance the construction of the replacement block 6. The guarantee contract was concluded on the basis of the Republic of Slovenia Guarantee Act for long-term loans of EUR 440 million, leased by TEŠ d.o.o. to the European Investment Bank, which was adopted in July this year and on the basis of an initiative adopted in September this year. The condition that the Ministry of Finance, on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, may conclude a guarantee contract whose ratification is before you today was the preliminary conclusion of two contracts. The first is a guarantee contract between TEC and the Ministry of Finance, which is a normal requirement for all state guarantees. The second contract is a novelty, namely a tripartite contract on the regulation of relations between the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and the TES, which sets out the framework for the implementation of the project. This contract explicitly sets the maximum final value of the project. It is specified that the maximum price for the supply of coal from Velenje Coal should not exceed that specified in the last, fifth, version of the updated investment programme. The deadline for completion of the project shall be set when the building permit must be obtained. The figures set maximum CO2 emissions, both block 6 and existing blocks. If the requirements of this Treaty are not met, fines and cancellations of both the management of the TEC and the management of the project shall be provided for as a sanction. The key elements of the negotiations between the Republic of Slovenia and the EIB were the scope and legal nature of the guarantee and the way in which the guarantee was called. According to the contract, the Republic of Slovenia offers the guarantee to pay the principal of the interest and all other costs, but in no case more than 130 % of the principal, i.e. no more than EUR 572 million, as set out in Article 2 of the Guarantee Treaty. Article 3 provides that the bank must, at the same time as the call for payment for marriages, provide evidence that the prior payment was also called upon by the principal debtor under the financial contract, namely the Termoelectrica Šostanj. Article 4 of the Guarantee Treaty specifies more precisely the legal nature of the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia, which is autonomous and independent of the financial contract. Article 6 specifies that only those provisions which do not increase the obligation of the Republic of Slovenia to marry may be amended by the EIB and the TEC in the Financial Treaty, and all other provisions may be amended only with the written consent of the wedding. The Law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for a loan leased by TEC to the EIB provides in Article 1 that the State must also sign two other acts before the conclusion of the guarantee contract with TES. These are the contract on the manner and conditions of the guarantee insurance and the contract on the arrangements for the relationship in which the framework for the implementation of the project is laid down. Both contracts were signed by 30. 11. 2012. The guarantee insurance contract provides that the guarantee shall be secured by means of a blank currency issued by the TEC. There is also a menu statement for their implementation. TES will pay compensation to the State as a wedding in the amount of 1,25 % per year for the guarantee issued. The relationship management contract sets out the framework for the implementation of the project in a way that respects commitments under the investment programme. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government proposes to support the ratification of the said guarantee agreement by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u69	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. That is why I now give the floor to President Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u70	Thank you very much again, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! At its 23rd urgent meeting, on 20 December 2012, the Committee on Foreign Policy considered the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Treaty of guarantee between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank [[TES – Šostanj/B thermal power plant]] submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. In its consideration, the Committee took into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and had no comments on the text of the bill. The representative of the proposer, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Dr Dejan Krušec, provided an additional explanation in which he presented the main elements of the guarantee contract. In the short discussion, inter alia, it was found that in Article 2 of the text of the guarantee contract, the number 572 million in the Slovenian language was misspelled, namely 572 million euros in rounding. At the end of the discussion, the representatives of the proponents answered the questions raised, provided further clarifications and stressed that the correct amount is €572 million. Before voting on all the articles of the bill, the Committee adopted a decision. In view of the fact that the Committee on Foreign Policy has found that in Article 2 of the text of the guarantee contract, the number 572 million is misspelled, the Committee proposes that the legislative and legal service in the final edition and that it prepares texts to publish the word thousands correct by the word of millions. The members of the committee then voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them without a vote against. As no amendment has been adopted to the draft law on the home labour body, the Committee on Foreign Policy to the National Assembly proposes that the draft law on the ratification of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank [[TES – Šostanj/B thermal power plant]] adopt it in the text submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u71	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Samo Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! The Social Democrats Group will majority support the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Treaty of guarantee between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank for long-term loan liabilities of €440 million, leased by the Italian Investment Bank Termoelectric power plant for the financing of the replacement block 6 project at the Šostanj Termoelectrica. In July this year, the National Assembly adopted a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia because, otherwise, the State should write down almost a billion of its assets and by recapitalisation provide around 450 million to revitalize the blocks 4 and 5 into the TEC and contribute close to 300 million euros of funds under specific coal-mining laws in Velenje. The adoption of the guarantee law and the hiring of a loan with the European Investment Bank was economically most prudent because the European Investment Bank provides the most favourable loans. Although the New Energy Act allows for the possibility of the Heat Power Plant of Šostanj setting up facilities as collateral for credit, the price of credit would be significantly higher than if the loan was secured by the State guarantee. The additional financial burdens of the project result in a higher electricity price or a worsening of the investment economy. The direct financial impact of the State guarantee debt is 2.5% lower the interest rate of EUR 440 million, amounting to EUR 11 million per year. On the basis of a practical calculation for a 25-year loan, this means that the loan of EUR 180 million will be lower than the non-guaranteed loan for TES 6. The conclusion of the guarantee contract and its ratification are the main condition for drawing up the loan which will allow the company of Šostanj to continue its investment in the construction of the replacement block 6. In the event that we did not ratify the guarantee contract law today, Holding the Slovenian power plants would become insolvent because it guarantees all the obligations of the company Termoelectrica Šostanj, thereby causing great economic damage. The Group of Social Democrats will overwhelmingly support the proposal for a law on ratification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u73	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code, Mr Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u74	Have a nice hello again. Members of the National Gazette will also support the Treaty or ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank, allowing the project to be completed and launched as soon as possible, to be put into service. I think this is the most important thing for all of us, no matter what happens. I think that this project is a little too expensive and that the government's actions and demands were somehow correct. This has stopped the growth of the total investment value indefinitely and now it is necessary to complete everything as quickly as possible and to enable the investment to begin to return. This will only be possible if we quickly – time is money – complete as quickly as possible and start producing electricity, start producing new value and start returning credits. I hope that the planned return will be large enough to enable it to cover current costs, to repay all credits, including those for which the State has given the guarantee, so that they do not come into the situation of the State having to repay it. Therefore, it is really important that the beginning is completed and that it starts to bring new value as soon as possible. I think the whole situation, the investment was very messyly run, very awkwardly prepared. Now that we are discussing whether to give a guarantee that is a condition for drawing credit, I think that somehow, at least for me, it is strange, because every investment should be covered in advance, all guarantees and should be covered from the very beginning. It is clear that you cannot complete such a large investment in the middle or 80% of the completed project at once. We always feel that we are somehow forced into some decisions that, if it were not for this situation, we would have made differently. That is why I hope that we will begin to pursue another project. I think coal is a safe source, energy, and it replaces the need to import electricity or oil. I would rather support and invest in the accelerated construction of hydroelectric power plants, which are longer and longer-term more successful and profitable, on Sava and others. I hope that these projects will also start as soon as possible and that there will be no too many deadlocks in the preparation of documentation and the search for consensus. Once again, in the National Gazette, we will support the proposal, hoping that the investment will be completed as quickly as possible and that we all benefit from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u75	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! It's about, I don't know, the second or third treatment of the same problem. This is a law on the ratification of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank. We held most of the debate in the guarantee law. At that time, the debate was long, so I do not intend to repeat the debates of that time. I would point out only three aspects, three after my assessment of the most important aspects of this largest investment currently under way in the Republic of Slovenia. The first is an energy aspect that probably does not need to be highlighted. The second is an ecological aspect. The energy facility on one side uses coal. It seems to me that the most important replacement of old, ecologically obsolete blocks is. This seems to me to be the most important question or answer. The third is the financial aspect in which the non-guaranteed loan price of the State and the state-guaranteed loan price are to be taken into account in respect of the guarantee. However, in view of the debate expressed today and repeatedly in the public, we expect the relevant authorities to confirm or reject the suggestion that the use of funds or investment value would not be transparent and unreasonable. Someone, if they are, is responsible. It follows from this that we will support the law on the ratification of the guarantee contract in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u77	On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Maria Plevčak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u78	We have before us the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank for part of the loan for the 6th block of the Termoelectrica Šostanj. At the beginning of this year, the government proposed the conclusion of a guarantee agreement with TES 6 and with the European Investment Bank for part of the loan of EUR 440 million. When this decision was taken by the government, it was expected that the procedures would run quickly and that the 6th block could be built further. But it didn't work out the way it was meant to. Procedures for the ratification of the Treaty have been stalled for an unknown reason and, today, with the approval of the Treaty in the National Assembly, the project is finally moving from the dead point. Let me remind you that in the National Assembly, we passed the State Guarantee Act for the Construction of TES on 6 July this year. It states that the State will guarantee EUR 440 million in loan to the European Investment Bank if TES meets certain conditions. One of them was that the price of the project should not exceed the current EUR 1.3 billion. The Treaty on the regulation of relations relating to the 6th block project governs the relationship between the ministries and the TES in relation to the implementation of the project or the requirements to be met by the Scottish thermoelectric power plant as an investor of the project in accordance with the provisions of the guarantee law for the construction of TES 6. As already stated, the TEC shall, by signing this contract, ensure that the total investment value of the project is lower than the final value of the project set out in the revised investment programme Nos. 4 and 5 and that the project is completed in accordance with the construction plan, no later than 15 February 2016, when the use permit must also be obtained. TES also undertakes that the value of carbon dioxide in existing blocks and in block 6 will not exceed the value for each year set in NIP 5. The contract also provides that the maximum price for the supply of coal must be as set out in the NIP 5 and the minimum profitability of the project. The Treaty on the regulation of relations also contains sanctions for infringements of contractual obligations, since inter alia, the withdrawal of the TEC administration without the right of withdrawal is envisaged. The contract on the manner and conditions of the guarantee shall specify in more detail the insurance of the State guarantee. TES is the wedding, the State responsible for securing the fulfilment of its obligations to submit 5 Bianca menus signed by TES, together with the irrevocable declaration of TES for their fulfilment, this is a mere statement. For the guarantee TES will pay the wedding premium, comparable to the premiums in the financial markets, and the contract on the terms and conditions of the guarantee. Since there has been no guarantee so far, there have been difficulties in financing the project, so the main technology equipment supplier, Alstom, announced in early November a reduction in the volume of work and has so far withdrawn more than half of the workers from the construction site. Work on the site is carried out, but on a substantially reduced scale. Therefore, there are additional costs estimated at approximately EUR 30 million in TES. 70 % of the works have been done on the project so far. TES received €843 million in accounts for this, of which €684 million has already been paid. Unpaid accounts are about 154 million to Alstom and over EUR 5.6 million to domestic operators. Given that we believe that the project needs to be completed, we will support the proposal for a ratification law in the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Slovenian Retired Persons.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u79	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As you all know, and as is known to the Slovenian public, Nova Slovenija has strongly opposed the Republic of Slovenia guarantee law to rent a loan of EUR 440 million for the completion of the TES 6 facility. I will not reinterpret our arguments, but I could take them with a statement from our European Commissioner, Mr Janez Potočnik, who would like to repeat the following several times. It says Europe will be green or it will not be. Also in another place when he says — and we strongly agree with him — that TES 6 is not a way into a low - carbon society. But marriage in the National Assembly has received support and we respect the laws adopted here, even if there are bad solutions. Therefore, the New Slovenia Group will support the law on the ratification of the guarantee contract. It is a kind of foreign product or an implementing act of the guarantee law of the Republic of Slovenia. I conclude with the thought and expectation that Slovenian Commissioner Janez Potočnik, whom I personally appreciate, will also be determined to build gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets or its hinterland. We believe and know that he is the Commissioner of the Seven-Twenty, almost eight-twenty, and that the Commissioner is all about 500 million citizens of the European Union. But despite all that, he will not make a mistake if he commits himself not to build gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets and its back. This will be good for Slovenia in our firm conviction, and what is good for Slovenia is good for Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u81	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Jože Velikinja.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u82	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Positive Slovenia has already warned the ruling coalition and the government that the adoption of the law does not mean a real guarantee and that it will have to be ratified by the Government for the operationalisation of the guarantee. Positive Slovenia also argued that this law cannot and must not constitute a commitment to this government not to take responsibility for the TES 6 project, since most of the contracts were signed during its previous term. The government has laid down five conditions for supporting the law to the investor. TES ensured that the government conditions would be met and that the investment value for the 6th block of Thermal Power Plant Šostjanj remained the same as before, i.e. EUR 1.3 billion. On the basis of these statements, the National Assembly adopted a law at its 16th extraordinary meeting in July. In Positive Slovenia we support the completion of TEŠ 6, which we also wrote in the pre-election programme. At the same time, we requested a review of the project management process and a public briefing. We can probably all agree, on the basis of the discussions so far, that the project is not the most economical and that the project's economic guarantee can be improved. The fact is, due to the government’s delay in construction, the failure to pay works or accounts has already stopped. In addition, a consortium of banks financing the project, including the EIB and the EBRD, is expected to withdraw from the financing of the project if the guarantee contract is not signed and ratified. The competent ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Šuštersič and Zvonko Černač, signed only on 30 November this year with TES a contract on the regulation of relations with regard to the replacement block 6 project in TE Šostjanje and the contract on the manner and conditions of insurance of the Republic of Slovenia. This removed the barriers to the conclusion of the guarantee contract and consequently to its ratification. Block 6 of the Šostanj thermal power plant is now in the stage when it is already mostly built and when many of the work done has not yet been paid. In addition, HSE as a so-called parent company is also responsible for the obligations of TES. This asset does not have guarantees in the case of repurchase, even after the Government has transferred EUR 20 million for dividends from the holding, which would mean that the HSE should recapitalise the state or enter it as a co-owner who could become the majority owner of the Slovenian Power Plant Holding with the HSE obligations settled. In this case, there could be damage to the owner, the country. In the event of the bankruptcy of Holding, the Slovenian power plant would be much higher than the investment value of the project, not to mention other economic costs related to the provision of electricity supply. Despite this fact, we will not oppose the adoption of the guarantee by the Members of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u83	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u84	Dear President of the National Assembly, representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! Given that the National Assembly has made a guarantee for the implementation of this project, there is no reason in the SDS Group for us not to support the ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank. We call on all stakeholders to work extremely economically, economically with this project and that the project will be implemented within all normal prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u85	Thank you. We all like short and concise presentations of positions. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments were adopted at the home labour body and amendments could not be proposed at the assembly meeting. The decision on the bill will be made in the context of the vote in about 15 minutes. I interrupt this item on the agenda and also the session, which will be resumed by the vote at 12.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u86	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions, so please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision requiring the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to assess the constitutionality of the consequences resulting from the postponement of the application or the rejection of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014 at the referendum. No amendments were adopted by the mother labour body to the proposal for a decision, so the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Procedurally, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we propose a 15-minute recess for consultation in the parliamentary group before the decision is taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u88	Mrs Alenka Jeraj, this can only be done by a leader of a delegation or a deputy, so you cannot. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Deputy Head of the Parliamentary Group, Mrs Janja Attack, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u89	Thank you so much for saying that. As a deputy, I would like to request a 15-minute recess for consultation in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u90	First, I will ask if anyone wishes to explain his voice on behalf of the Group of Members. Nobody. Does anyone want to explain his voice in his own name? If no one wants to explain to the vote, then I will suspend the session until 12:30 and then we will vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u91	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will vote on the proposal for a decision on the request of the National Assembly to assess the constitutionality of the consequences of the referendum. If you're ready, we'd start the vote. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 15. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 15.]] The decision is adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling. We're moving to third reading. In the second reading, no amendments to the amended law were tabled and no amendments could be tabled in the third reading. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Mr Janko Weber, explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u92	Thank you. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will oppose the law on gambling, because the content enshrined in this law removes control over gambling, as the office responsible for monitoring the activities of all those involved in this activity is being abolished. While it is a welcome solution in the sense that the Tax Administration is supposed to exercise this control, we know that the Tax Administration does not have enough people to carry out its duties to the extent that it is expected. Since this is only the first step towards what follows – that is, in the public debate there is also a broader amendment to the Law on Gambling, where a completely open game is envisaged without rules in this area – we will oppose this law, which repeals the regulator who oversees gambling and monitors the implementation of all those involved. This is another of those laws that shows the unwavering desire that all institutions in the country that exercise any control of capital be abolished and that this is sought only and only in order for some to regain the desired benefit from all that they can do, even within gambling. It is even worse that, as a result of such action in this area, both the state budget and the local budgets that receive part of the funds from this activity will be damaged, because if there is no control, it will not be possible to monitor how funds flow or are lost beyond the state budget and beyond the budgets of the municipalities. That is why we will oppose this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-21-SDZ6-Izredna-24.ana.u93	Thank you. We will vote on the bill. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 62 votes against 8. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank for the Termoelectrica Šostanj. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 2. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 24th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Have a nice Christmas. Of course, I will see you tomorrow, but I hope that there will be no special abstinence crisis regarding work. We will see each other on December 28th in an extraordinary session.
