ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I begin the 23rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened on the basis of Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Today's meetings cannot be attended by the following colleagues: mag. Lejla Hercegovac by 16:00, Janez Vasle, Roberto Battelli and Dr. László Göncz from 18:00 onwards. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda. Procedurally, Mrs. Tamara Vont, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u2	Thank you very much. I would have a procedural proposal, namely, best of luck, Mr Virant! / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u3	Thank you. Thank you very much. Are we going to vote? Thank you. Now get to work. We'll set the agenda for the 23rd extraordinary session. You received your draft agenda on Tuesday, 27 November, with a reference. We will decide on the proposal in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but we have a proposal for enlargement. The Group of Members and Members of the first-signed Jozet Tank has tabled a request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Disability and Pension Insurance in Third Treatment – and at the same time has proposed that the agenda of the 23rd extraordinary session be extended by this item. You have received a request to convene an extraordinary meeting with a proposal for an extension of the 23rd extraordinary meeting on 3 December 2012. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the proposal or the applicants? No, no, no. Mr. Tank is not in the hall right now. Does Minister Visjak want a word on this? Not at all. Representatives of parliamentary groups? Not at this stage either. I am closing the debate on the proposal for enlargement and we are moving on to a decision on enlargement, so please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We will decide on the proposal to extend the agenda by means of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 72 votes against 1. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted and this item has been treated as item 3a of the agenda, but already today. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda as referred to should be set, taking into account the enlargement adopted. We're voting on the agenda. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, 74 votes against 1. [[The vote was 74.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda of the 23rd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. Before moving to point 3a, i.e. to the law on pension and disability insurance, I inform you that, in agreement with the leaders of the groups of Members, we will vote on the amendments and on the proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance today, immediately after the consideration of this bill has been completed. I sent this question or this message to the leaders of the opposition groups, so if you have any comments on this today, please – if not, we will do so. Do you agree that today, after the debate, we would vote on amendments and on the law? I didn't get any negative responses, and after the old Latin river - Qui Tacet consentire videos - I thought we had an agreement. So we move on to the 3rd A-point of the day, that's the third defensively proposed Code of Peace and Invalidity Insurance. Procedurally, mag. Maja Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u4	Dear Mr. President! We have already debated this subject several times, and once again I propose that, with all due respect for modern technology, there are, however, some established rules in official communications, and I think that such important things as matters relating to the work of the National Assembly cannot be communicated either by texting or by tweeting, they cannot be read. I would recommend that such messages, which affect the work of the National Assembly, be carried out in accordance with established customs because it is not in the short term but also in the argument of the communication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u5	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I took note, but I did not understand the procedural proposal as an objection to the content itself in order to vote today. Okay. We are moving on to the 3rd point of the day, this is to the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance. Mr Janko Weber has a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, President! Given that we do not yet have the amendments to the law on pension and disability insurance, I propose that, as President, in accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, which allows you to suspend the work of the National Assembly and determine when to proceed, you decide that the National Assembly will continue today's meeting when we receive the amendments to this Act. And from the moment we receive the amendments, allow us another hour to look at these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u7	Good. I agree with the proposal. The amendments are just splitting up. So I'm adjourning the session. They're sharing the amendments to the PIZ. [[...]] I'm correcting, the amendments have already been put into the information system. If you look at the application e-klop, you can see them. However, since we are doing business by the new year in the way that the amendments are also shared in physical form, you will get them on the bench within 15, 20 minutes. That's why I'm adjourning the session until 1:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u8	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Accuracy is a beautiful beauty. We continue with the adjourned session. We are moving on to item 3a of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance. The bill was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly, so I give the word mag. Mr Andre Visiak, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, for an additional explanation of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u9	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have a pension reform or the Pension and Disability Insurance Act in our third reading. Much work has been done so far, both in Parliament and in negotiations with different structures, with social partners, i.e. trade unions, employers, and stakeholders. There have also been some discussions in the opposition that I am not talking about coordination within the coalition. All these conversations and arrangements are cut short by the law, which is now in third reading with amendments. I can say with all my responsibility here today that the law is to the greatest extent or to the greatest extent consistent with the social partners, including the unions. The only question left open is where, in particular, the Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions is not satisfied with the proposed compromise amendment, this is about the added time of study. Let me draw attention to the fact that this issue was resolved in the same way as today in the pension reform two years ago, and the unions did not then have problems with this solution at the conclusion of the demands. They put other reasons why they opposed it and not it, and now that we've closed it all down, it's still an issue. That's what I warned you about, because I can tell you that this is one thing, let's say, the only thing left out of sync. The Pension and Disability Insurance Act is extremely important in several aspects. Firstly, the aim of this law is to financially stabilise the pension fund, not to have a good feeling, but mainly to ensure the smooth payment of pensions to current and future pensioners – this is very important. The other thing is some long-term sustainability of the pension fund. We are not optimistic to the extent that we claim that this pension reform is a response to long-term demographic trends. However, it is certainly the answer to the financial problems of the pension fund, which we have in Slovenia due to relatively early retirement. In Slovenia, an average of 35 years and several months must be worked to obtain an old pension. This is absolutely insufficient compared to the comparable, developed countries. Since the life expectancy is longer as pensions are extended, measures should be taken to ensure that pensions continue to be sustainable as a result of these circumstances. Therefore, the basic measures are aimed at prolonging the activity of an individual, or we want a period of activity and thus paying contributions and thus work, extending for a few years, while at the same time equalising men and women, and on the other hand, we want to prevent the further fall of pensions. The compromise between both intentions and objectives is in the proposed pension reform. We have often heard that this pension reform is only a response to the next few years. The following graph shows and shows the financial effects of pension reform over the next period. It shows how much less we will spend on the amount of pensions paid in the coming period if this law is adopted according to the spontaneous scenario or according to the law now in force. If we look in the long term, there in 2060, we will spend as much as a billion euros per year on pensions as if this law were not there. The law also has short-term financial effects, medium-term effects and long-term financial effects. It is important that we be aware of this at the time of adoption, and more importantly that this law also guarantees future decent pensions and some sustainable activity of the population in the coming period.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u10	Thank you, Minister. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u11	Dear Mr President, Minister with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! After 12 years we are in Slovenia before the adoption of the new Pension and Disability Insurance Act. In view of the fact that the pension allowance is less sustainable year after year and the value of the pension is declining, the reform of the pension system would have been needed sooner than the Social Democrats have always claimed. The ratio between insurers and pensioners, mainly due to low birth rates, ageing of the population, as well as rising unemployment, late entry of young people into the labour market and early retirement, has deteriorated dramatically. As early as 1990 the ratio between pensioners and the active population was 1, 2,3 and two active persons per pensioner, and in 2011 this ratio fell to 1,53 active persons per pensioner. Two years ago, we drew attention to the fact that, in order to ensure the basic objectives of pension reform – these are the long-term sustainability of the pension system and a decent pension – measures, new reforms will not be able to be milder than those recorded in the pension reform that was rejected in the referendum. This is mainly in favour of tightening the pension conditions. The law before us stipulates that in the last six years the conditions for reaching a retirement pension for men and women will be equal. For women, this means that their working time will be extended by more than two years, for the most part in the first year of the new law, that is, by 8 months, due to the fact that the previous reform has not yet expired. The age pension will be 57.25% for men at 40 years of age and 60 years of age for men and 60.25% for women. A much more transparent way of determining the percentage of the pension rate offered by the new law, expressed in the net wage-retirement ratio, revealed the fact that there are low, even poor pensions. The new law, when fulfilling the conditions for a retirement pension, will only hold back the further decline of pensions, which is incorporated into the existing pension law ZPIZ-1. As the unions warn us, this is not the case for men either, in the transitional period their pension would be more than 3% lower than it would have been under the 2010 law. Only if workers work for more than 40 years will their pension value increase, according to the latest supplements by 4% for each further year of work. Only when working time is extended will an individual be able to provide a pension that could be called a decent pension, of course, provided that they are able to do so or choose. As you can see, when public servants meet the first condition they are forced to retire, it is only a matter of time before they follow this bright example in the economy. We Social Democrats are pleased that at least at key points the government has managed to reach agreement with the unions. However, today we were warned that there were no two key points of the agreement, so the unions did not accede to or sign an agreement on the points relating to the fixing of the amount of pensions, especially for men, and on the point of the implementation of the bonus for the duration of the study. However, an agreement has been reached on the regulation of occupational pensions. The Social Democrats will support the pension reform. We will do this so much easier because the government has listened to the opposition in the course of handling the pension law in the National Assembly. Thus, the draft law has been deleted for Social Democrats with a highly controversial, discriminatory provision of the draft law, the so-called cleaning of the pension register. On the basis of this provision, pensions and pensioners whose payments are partly or fully provided by the budget and beneficiaries of which one third of the pensioners are excluded from the pension scheme. Within one year, conditions should be laid down for the acquisition and assessment of rights and for the way in which funds are provided. As we were further explained at the Committee's meeting, these pensions would move into the status of social transfers – and we all know what is going on with social transfers. In the second reading, the amendment proposed by the Social Democrats on the basis of which the number of beneficiaries of the widow's pension extends to individuals living in a registered same-sex partnership. In this way, at least one point has achieved a better solution than the present one, and in the spirit of what he wanted to achieve the Family Code. The conditions of retirement for those insured who started working before the age of 18 have also been improved, as well as those provisions which ensure the protection of the expected rights for unemployed, disabled and recipients of occupational pensions, as was the content of the amendments of the Social Democrats, and were summarised in the amendments to the Committees. In the second reading, we have also proposed amendments to Article 27 of the Law to allow a more gradual transition to 65 years of retirement for both sexes and to increase the rate of transition to new retirement conditions and to increase the retirement age for women. We estimate that these conditions, despite the delays in implementing the reform, are too severe and confirm our claim that the current pension reform burden will be borne by women. Even though the alignment of their working time with the working age of men has also been announced by our pension reform, the dynamics we have put in place have been significantly more favourable and milder and more favourable to women. The proposal for a pension law, which is now under third reading, is based on the fact that we need a pension reform immediately, and given that the content of key solutions is the result of the government's compromises with the social partners and partly with the opposition, undoubtedly a step forward. However, despite the adoption of the reform, Slovenia will remain among those Member States of the European Union that have very high public finances to finance the pension system, which the International Monetary Fund notes in its 2012 report is still a very high burden. This report draws attention, inter alia, to the need for further reforms of the pension system to ensure its long-term sustainability. As one option, they propose the introduction of compulsory supplementary pension insurance. It is not necessary to accept, but a proposal has been made. In particular, demographic facts force us to think about the future. If we want our pension system to be based on intergenerational solidarity in the future, which we all agree on, further changes will undoubtedly follow, perhaps sooner than this, after so long and I will also say painful coordination, we would like to. Nevertheless, despite all the concerns, the proposed law before us will be supported by the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u12	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National List of Mags. Truda Cinderella.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u13	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance brings a number of significant, positive changes, such as the transparency of the pension system, which strengthens and introduces informational personal records. For each insured person, the institution will maintain an information personal record containing information on the bases from which the contributions were paid, the invoices and the contributions paid after each year and during the period of insurance. The importance of the new system is also the gradual introduction of changes and a longer transitional period, which will mean a transition to a more sustainable system of compulsory insurance under an intergenerational contract. The unemployed will apply the pension conditions of the STIZ-1 with a cut-off date of 31 December for the duration of the unemployment benefit. The abolition of the valorisation factor is considered a good solution, meaning that a net dose percentage should be taken away so that everyone knows how much of the salary will be his pension. The valorisation factor has been complex and unpredictable in our pension system, as it has been determined by the Minister every year. And only when it was published did individuals have the ability to calculate their pension. An accounting period shall be introduced for the 24 most favourable consecutive years. Contributions shall be paid for both copyright and business contracts from now on. And we could list it. We have also made every effort in the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette to stop the fall in pensions with the proposed pension reform, to improve the situation of pensioners while ensuring the sustainability of the pension fund. The Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette will support the Pension and Disability Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u14	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u15	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today is an important step ahead of us and in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we hope that, as in the second reading, we will finally confirm the new pension law with consensus. The proposal for a new law on pension and disability insurance is one of the important laws that can move Slovenia forward, a step closer to getting out of the crisis. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the proposal for a new pension law, because we know that we are already seriously behind this legislation, which confirms a number of negative consequences that are already growing. In the process of negotiating and considering the law, we have adopted a number of compromise solutions with the amendments, but there is probably someone who is not fully satisfied. It is particularly important, however, for us to see the commitment of the social partners, especially trade unions, to be satisfied with the provisions negotiated so that they do not reopen the referendum, as did the previous proposal. With each year of postponing the reform, conditions are also deteriorating for future pensioners, as they are lower and lowering the pension rate every year while they are still delaying the adoption of these changes. Members of the Slovenian People's Party have been constructively involved in the drafting of this and previous bill and in the drafting of amendments that further improve the provisions of the current proposal. The indisputable fact is that the sustainability of the pension allowance is resolved in a short period of time only by the rapid adoption of a reform that must raise the retirement age by at least three years. Let me also reiterate the view that, in the long term, it will be necessary, in the second phase of this pension reform, to design and upgrade the system in order to provide safe and higher pensions in the long term, after a transitional period. We must also act in the field of more active demographic policy and consequently positive family policies. With positive measures and incentives for young people to make decisions for more children, it has been a long-term solution to the social treasury, which experts and our group have been alerting in the debates for many years. The law will also be supported by members of the Slovenian People's Party, because as a basic principle we maintain solidarity and as a basis for a pension we define an insurance or retirement age, i.e. the period with the contributions paid. The draft law on pension and disability insurance, which is before us, takes into account proposals that are particularly important to us in the Slovenian People's Party. Let me list some of these: a proposal to reduce the age of mothers with multiple children; employers are recognised as bonuses for young employees and older workers; provisions are adopted to protect the expected rights of the unemployed and those who already qualify for retirement; a more gradual deterioration of the pension conditions during the transitional period; a pension period has been recognised for workers who have not paid contributions; a minimum basis is laid down for the insurance of farmers; comments are taken into account for the continued operation of the crafts fund; and, last but not least, a very important article has been taken into account, a family pension initiative comment has been made on the termination of the right to family pension; and young parents will receive it by the age of 26; a new occupational insurance scheme has been harmonised; a proper reconciliation of pensions, including for 2013; a great compromise with the opposition is the deletion of the original 408. Such proposals, which we find very important in the Slovenian People's Party, could still be listed. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, it is expected that the law of Dursa will still require that the data on insured persons be communicated to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance to the maximum extent and to the extent possible, instead of imposing administrative burden on employers. Once again, Members of the Slovenian People's Party will be happy to support this law, which was necessary several years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Mag. Jana Jenko, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u17	Thank you so much for saying that. All welcome, especially to Minister Visiak. A bad week ago, we supported the new Pension and Disability Insurance Act in this room in the second reading. All of us, both the coalition and the opposition, were united in our view that the amendment of the existing law was absolutely necessary. As is known, the law is mostly consistent with the social partners. The aim of the reform is to ensure the stability and sustainability of the pension fund in order to enable both current and future pensioners to receive decent pensions. We know that working conditions have improved significantly over the years, which means that work is, we can say in all sectors, greatly facilitated by the situation 20 or 30 years ago. The law now in force did not take sufficient account of the fact that, due to better living conditions, the life expectancy of the Slovenian population is longer – so it is clear that the time of receiving the pension is also longer. Until now, some individuals have retired at the age of 50 or less. The average period of women's pensions in 2000 was 17 years and one month and in 2011 it was 21 years and 8 months. On average, men received a few years less, 14 years and 9 months in 2000 and 16 years and 4 months in 2011. In the last ten years, the birth rate has dropped. In 1980 it was the last year when all fertility was sufficient for easy reproduction of the population. Thus, in 1990, there were 2.3 workers working for one pensioner, only 1.5 workers last year. The average pension age at the end of 2011 was only 32 years and 7 months. We are also facing one of the lowest employment rates for older people between the ages of 55 and 64, 31.2%. The average in the European Union is 47.4%. By the way, a friend who has been living in Germany and has been working there for 25 years, I asked him at the time of the adoption of this pension law how much time he has to work. He's about as old as I am – he said by the age of 67. I was surprised that he didn't even think about how long he was actually working. He's just like, "67 years old." Let me get on with it. It is clear from the data provided that even if there were no economic crisis, our pension register would simply not have been able to endure this for a long time. According to calculations, in 2020 at the latest, seven years from now, seven years from now, we know how quickly the current pension system is going to exceed the funding capacity of the state budget. For insurers, this would mean that the pension system should then be changed very quickly, without transitional periods, without a gradual increase in conditions, without burden-sharing between several generations and with a continuous reduction in pensions. In the DeSUS Group, we welcome a new calculation of the rate of pensions, as it will significantly slow down the years of falling pensions according to today's value. Crisis calls for saving, and pensioners have been heavily saved for the third year. In 2010, the reconciliation of pensions was half due to wage growth; in 2011, this coordination was only quarterly, and this year pensions were not coordinated at all. When, on the basis of the legislation in force, it is incumbent on the PSIZ to provide funds of EUR 50 million for an explicit purpose, this is for the coordination of pensions. In 2010, when the coordination was reduced by half, the allocated assets of KAD PPIZ were sufficient at their level, as they were needed for harmonisation of 52 million, when the PPIZ, however, allocated 100 million. The following year, we had a quarter of coordination, which meant that PPIZ paid only 18 million in 2011, up to 50 million remaining 32 million and there was no coordination at all this year. In all these three years, Kad’s assets were not used in accordance with the law, so in DeSUS we requested that the coordination of pensions be reintroduced in 2013. That was also the agreement in the coalition agreement. However, we are still well aware in our party and in the Group of Members, but we believe that all pensioners are also aware of this, that money is not needed, that the State is in charge of the urgent settlement of its outstanding obligations. Therefore, in designing a way of harmonising pensions in the future, in addition to the system formula, which provides that pensions are harmonised once a year by 60% wage growth and 40% of the price of living costs, we have adjusted for 2013 the harmonisation of pensions to financial capabilities and the fact that wages are also growing very little. Pensions will be harmonised according to wage growth, but up to a maximum of 50 million. In the negotiations, the DeSUS Group also provided for the introduction into the law that pensions could under no circumstances be reconciled for less than half the cost of living. Of course, this fuse also applies after 2013. Since we are optimistic in the party of DeSUS, we believe that by accepting this for all the people of Slovenia, as well as those young people who now find it difficult to believe that they will ever receive a pension, such an important law, we ourselves will be able to cope with the economic crisis with new jobs, reduce unemployment and consequently recharge the pension allowance with contributions from work, which also means that the enormous burden would be slightly removed from the state budget. The pension reform will be supported by DeSUS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u19	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! After about three months, we brought the pension reform to an end. We have a third debate and final vote on pension reform ahead of us. Some will say that accepting this pension reform is an example of cooperation; others will say that this pension reform is an example of giving up – depending on which side of the situation you are looking at. If the cuts were sharper, then this pension reform would probably go further into the future. As more concessions were needed to avoid possible blockades and referendums, a new pension reform would have to be achieved earlier. The fact is that the current pension reform is in the interest of those who are just before retirement or who are already retired. What happens if pension reform is not adopted? Pensions will fall. Many people find this to be illogical, on the one hand, that the pension reform will have certain financial effects and financial effects in the sense that it will put less burden on the state budget and the pension fund, and on the other hand we are talking about higher pensions. illogically, but I think the minister of the past, including on the board, has proved that he simply holds it. The higher pensions and higher income in the pension allowance will simply provide a longer period of time during which individuals will work and pay into the pension allowance. We've decided to work longer. I think that was the right decision. On the other hand, we had the opportunity to increase the contribution rate. I am convinced that this would be a completely wrong message in times of crisis and that such a variant would further burden the Slovenian economy. Many of my colleagues have talked about what all pension reform brings. But the key thing that this pension reform is about, and it's all about, is 40 years of retirement. So it will take 40 years for an individual to retire. This is a significant difference from when some in some other reforms set the age limit for retirement. A colleague before me said well that in some other countries it is necessary to work until a certain age and that the retirement age is not so important. At this point, I would like to stress one more thing — what is the age of retirement? Working hours; this is the time when you worked and paid in retirement. Hospital; there are cases where they have been in the hospital for years. The unemployment allowance; even the duration of your time in the institution will be counted as your retirement age. And even, likewise, the parental compensation; according to your household, the time you spent in the maternity ward. Some civil society has warned that this pension reform is not favoured by mothers. I'm saying the other way around. I think in this pension reform there's obedience to mothers. To put it very concretely, mothers are first considered to be in the retirement period, which, according to the household, they have spent on maternity leave, and also their children contribute to lowering their retirement age. I think it's a step and a hand for mothers to do the work they do for this society. I would conclude that anyone at the referendum or anywhere else who breaks this pension reform will in some way advocate lower pensions and unsustainable public finances. Of course, he'll have to take responsibility for these things. In New Slovenia we do not want to take responsibility for these things, so we will gladly support this pension reform that is ahead of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Dr László Göncz, on behalf of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u21	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! It is very important in political and social times that today, in the third reading before us, the proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance, which is largely attended by a consensus of parliamentary parties and most of the social partners. In spite of the fact that the proposal for a law is a milder version of possible alternatives and will therefore be maintained for an expected short period of time, it should be stressed that in the economic and social circumstances that we have witnessed in Slovenia and after one already failed pension reform, we must commend the work done in this area. The solutions in this law are a compromise of the necessary changes, which are conditioned by the economic, financial and demographic circumstances and the social sustainability of the society they are still carrying. It seems particularly important to me to point out that, in drafting the text of the bill, the government coalition and the opposition were, in most cases, capable of exceeding the party's interest and also in the most sensitive solutions, such as the conditions for obtaining the right to old age and early retirement, the pension base and the maintenance of pensions, the determination of the percentage for the pension benefit, and the complex professional issues in the context of disability insurance and the sustainability or stability of the pension package and other content, they have found compromise solutions. This should only encourage us to look for other solutions to the challenges that are in line. If we always stress and potentise only what is negative and what separates us and ignore positive cases, which unfortunately are not much, we will continue to create an atmosphere of further decomposition of our society. Therefore, the case of pension reform must also be used as a positive example that can help us solve problems. In some substantive matters, there are still some open questions, or at least one, as Mr Minister has pointed out, but I hope that in today's debate it will be possible to take a step forward in all areas and possibly to conclude this difficult work, which can be done at the most noble level. Finally, let me say that this proposal for pension reform or the law also has our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš on behalf of the Group of Positive Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Vice President. A respected minister with a co-worker, a respected colleague, a colleague. I read in today's newspaper that pension reform is Europe's first signal. I'll say it's not. This starting point is wrong, wrong. Pension reform is the first signal to our citizens and citizens and is a real consequence of the situation in the pension register, it is, after all, also a response to the demographic picture and is important, in terms of the elimination of some of the bad solutions of the previous reform, and these poor solutions are also reflected in the real fall in pensions. We must not accept reform in Slovenia because of the European Union, but because of the demands and needs of our people. We live in an extremely dynamic time of great social change. These depend on political and economic factors as well. On the one hand, we have a reduction in fertility, on the other hand, the extension of life or life expectancy, which is why in our society is rapidly changing, I will say, classical, intergenerational relations, which is not the last of us, require policy to define these relationships in terms of professional and civil society. In doing so, we must not ignore any of the fundamental values that represent, I will say once again, the foundation of democratic society and at the same time civilisation gains. However, in Slovenian politics, there was not enough willingness to respect democratic principles in the design of the most important strategic solutions, which resulted, unfortunately, in bad marriage proposals and not in a well-thought-out decision and these are, in fact, all citizens and citizens. This mandate is no exception, or I would rather say, perhaps the exception is that the Rules of Procedure are trying to play a thousand times and one way of violating the Resolution on Regulatory Activities when adopting legislation repeatedly – this is the document which has made it very clear to the Government how it should act in adopting legislation – that we have a situation where avoiding objective and subjective political responsibilities is acceptable or excusable fact. That's not good, that's not right. Hand to heart, the damage was also done in a pension reform that should have been brought to life two years ago. Today, finding the culprit for this political mistake and pointing fingers at individuals is, I believe we all agree, irrelevant. I only hope that from this very expensive lesson, we have all learned so much together that we will not repeat mistakes from the past in such important decisions. That is why today is probably an extremely important day, the 4th of December, anniversary of last year's national elections, and on this day, on this anniversary, we confirm the pension reform with the consensus of all political parties. One of the fundamental values in which I personally believe strongly and which I claim must remain the foundation of social systems, even because of the increasing aggressive penetration of neoliberal concepts into our system, is solidarity. It is based on social protection systems, the health system and pension and disability insurance. In doing so, however, respected colleagues and colleagues, we must not merely have a financial aspect in front of our eyes, but rather, what is important, the human side. And we made a conscious decision about solidarity. Just because of the changed demographic picture, intergenerational solidarity is extremely important today, but I hope that we are aware that even within the framework of the pension scheme, I believe that even before seven years, changes are needed if we are to maintain the principle of solidarity and sustainability. Colleagues before me have already highlighted some important substantive solutions brought by the law on pension and disability insurance, and I do not think it makes any sense to specifically point out and repeat them at this point. It has to be said, and the Minister has already said in his opening remarks that a lot of work has been done in the National Assembly, on the home labour body in the treatment and in the revisions to the basic draft law on pension and disability insurance. I'll say that if the goals are right and willful enough, the results will not be left out. That is why today we have before us a bill that is highly coordinated with the unions, and I must say so with the opposition. That is why it goes, I will say, not very much thanks, but to the Minister, because he has played politically extremely wise and listened to a lot of very clear and serious warnings from the opposition, so today we can say that the law is acceptable and that the law is such that it will mitigate a lot of the consequences that were inherently severe or in the basic proposal and which could have more painful consequences for the users of this law. What still hurts me is that the pension is low, too low. Statistics are very clear about the fact that as many as two-thirds of pensioners live with pensions that do not provide a decent life below that extreme edge, social goods. Today, as I drove to Ljubljana, I was also reminded by one of the citizens who asked me to remind the Minister of this and that we should only do something to make people – specifically a disability pensioner – able to spend at least as much a month as they are worthy to pay those bills that are necessary to pay. By the way, this woman has 280 euros in invalidity pension. I'm saying, these are the facts that remain painful, which we have no influence at this time. However, I believe that this will be a serious reminder to all of us when we decide on the necessary austerity measures next time. If I finish thinking about what happened to me on Saturday. On Saturday, I stood in front of a bunch of high school students and the economic high school of Trbovlje. I was really proud. At the same time, I felt a great responsibility as a member of the National Assembly. These are young people who have been collecting routes and jokes for charity since September, and this charity action has exceeded the boundaries of my city, the borders of Zasavje and even the borders of Slovenia. They pursued only one goal — to help people in distress. And you know, these young students at the same time pointed out the importance of empathy. They can feel and feel the pain of the fellow man. And the importance of solidarity. In this spirit, I conclude the opening presentation or position of the Positive Slovenia Group, and in this spirit of solidarity, we also support the present pension reform with all the corrections that will follow in the third reading in the form of amendments. Once again, I will say, I am pleased that we have all managed so much political wisdom together, and let this be a reminder to those ministers who are still learning that democracy is also the conclusion of compromises with the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Ms Romana Tomc, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, Minister with a colleague, colleague and colleague! Just three weeks ago, we had our first debate in this Chamber on a new pension law, which was due to enter into force in a bad month. Today we have a law on the table that has undergone quite a few changes during this time, but has remained in the fundamental elements as it was at the beginning. The fact is that we will have to work longer in the future, but it is not possible to overlook that retirement age will not only rise because of the tightening of conditions, but mainly at the expense of rich incentives for longer work. Today's proposal, together with the amendments, is the result of intense negotiations with a wide range of stakeholders. We can say that this law has been jointly formed by the Government, trade unions, employers, representatives of pensioners, disabled persons, various NGOs, students and, last but not least, experts from various institutions who will have to take care of the proper implementation of this law. Political parties also played a special role in this process. All of you, all of us. With our constructive proposals, we have contributed, including to opposition parties, an important part of the drafting of this law. As mentioned above, despite the pressure of the European institutions that pension reform should really be adopted as soon as possible, we must be aware that we are doing it primarily for ourselves. We are doing this to reduce the pressure on public finances caused by early retirement and ageing. We're also doing it to stop the fall of pensions. We are all alone, many pensions have become so low that they no longer provide a decent survival for the pensioners. This is also evidenced by the high risk of poverty, which is particularly worrying in older women. All of this is due to the system of the past, which, in particular, allowed women early retirement, but at the expense of a low pension. The favorable conditions were some sort of trap, in which many wanted to retire as quickly as possible. If the current law remained in force, the following years would be even worse. The fact is that the existing pension system is extremely complex and imprecise. Among the more than 400 articles, it is difficult to get to know experts, not just those who face pension problems every day. It would be difficult to say that, according to the new pension law, it will be easy to understand everything, but with a substantial shift in the way in which the pension system is determined, the system has changed to a more transparent one, and above all, it is important that it no longer deceives people with wrong expectations about the amount of their pensions. The introduction of the so-called net dose percentage has raised quite a number of concerns and many questions, since the comparison of current and new dosing percentages shows that the new ones are significantly lower. Some believe that this would result in lower pensions, but in fact this is not the case. With a view to halting the decline of the valorisation factor and at the same time fixing the replacement rate at the level in force this year, new pensioners will be provided with pensions comparable to those currently available. As the current pension law would continue to fall sharply, this solution is very beneficial for future pensioners. In addition, very favourable bonuses are awarded to persons who do not retire as soon as they have fulfilled the pension conditions. It is impossible to point out all the changes made by this law, so I will continue to limit myself to those who, in our opinion, are among the most important and to those who bring very positive changes, have been overlooked during the debate so far. The question that we hear most of these days is when we can retire under new conditions. There is no single answer to such a question, since the right to retirement, in addition to meeting the general conditions, is also linked to entirely personal circumstances. In principle, however, the right to an old-age pension is granted to a person who has completed 40 years of unreachable retirement who is at least 60 years old, whether male or female. This condition will only have to be met by the end of 2018 and until then slight gradual transitions are in place. The age limit may be further reduced, as has been said, by caring for a child in the first year of age, by serving military service, and by working before the age of 18. In this way, given the ratings, a man may not retire at 60, but at 58 years of age and a woman at 56 years of age. In the event that a person stays in employment, he does not retire, he may receive an additional bonus in addition to the salary, amounting to 20% of the pension. The law also offers many other incentives to promote youth employment and employment for older people. Thus, for example, an employer who will hire a person who is first employed and under 26 years of age, or who is a young mother with a child up to three years of age, will be exempt from payment for work. Employers will also receive incentives for all employees over the age of 60 and special incentives for those who remain in employment have already met the conditions for retirement. It will also bring relief to independent entrepreneurs who start their activities for the first time. In the first year following their launch and registration, they will not have to pay half of their contributions and in the second year their contributions will be reduced by a third. However, all existing independent entrepreneurs who are active today will be reduced by a quarter to the found profit, which is the basis for determining the insurance base. Important innovations are also in the field of occupational pensions. The current system, as we know, has not worked, is inconsequential. The list of jobs for which professional insurance is compulsory is completely obsolete. The contribution rates are too low to provide sufficient funds for the payment of these pensions. The new law provides for a complete review of all jobs and the establishment of new rules for the future, but at the same time also addresses the situation of those insurers who are already involved in occupational insurance and who do not have sufficient resources in their accounts. We did not discuss much about the work relating to voluntary additional insurance, but there is also very important news in this area. One of them and most importantly, it will be possible to make a more varied investment policy. This means that the insurer will be able to influence himself whether his assets are being invested in more risky investments that can bring higher returns and thus higher pensions, or whether he will opt for a more conservative investment policy. Most of the solutions provided by this law are subject to favourable transitional periods that will facilitate the transition of those who are now just before retirement. Therefore, the protection of expected rights is one of the most important provisions of the law. This means that all who already qualify for retirement, including the added period, will be able to retire at any time under the conditions currently in force. Even special protection has been given to the most vulnerable groups of people in our society, these are unemployed and disabled workers. They will be able to retire for the next three or five years according to the rules in force today. Despite all the progress, despite all the good solutions, the pension system of challenges will not run out in the future. In the SDS Group, we estimate that this law will achieve two key objectives of pension reform: to ensure the financial stability of the pension fund and thus to ensure greater public financial stability and, most importantly, to halt the further decline in pensions. That is why we will support the law in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u26	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. The word has magic. Alenka Bratushek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u27	Thank you. I will be very brief because we have already said a lot about pension reform and content. Minister Vizjak, you have proved that you can coordinate and hear comments, our opposition comments, comments by experts and comments you have heard on the Economic and Social Council. If your other colleagues, other ministers, could do the same, they would not be facing what has been happening in Slovenia for about fourteen days. But we've all proved that we can. It is true, however, that in Positive Slovenia, from the very beginning, since we have been in Parliament, we have pointed out that pension reform is necessary, and in the end, we have also written in our electoral programme that it is necessary and necessary, unlike some others who at the time thought that it could wait a little longer. I am glad that the cleansing that we have all lost many words to together has not been achieved by this law to remain as it is today. However, I would like to stress once again that as of today, what you have said about cleansing and how much there is really no such thing as separation in the pension register. I would like to warn you just a few more – the short-term effects, the financial effects of which we have talked a lot about, will not be the same as you calculated, but we will meet with this in the next film or in the preparation of the 2012 budget rebalancing, when it comes to the moment or day D, we will have to ensure as much as we need to ensure. At the end of the day, let me say in a joke that I hope that today's opposition is not going to cost you your job.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u28	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Maja Potrat, prepare the mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u29	Thank you for your word. Now I could start to discuss whether by half the glass is filled in half empty or half full. In fact, what I'm trying to say is that the compliments you share from your left and right are actually the result of a mature realization that pension reform is necessary. All that was done in the wake of the first pension reform — because, last but not least, the founders of this law have used up what was prepared in the previous pension reform and have had experience, what happens if there is no coordination and fear of new ones prevails among people, because now there is a fear of credit ratings among people. If this pension reform had been so much better than the previous one, I would not have dared to say so myself, and therefore I lack accurate calculations. This does not mean that I do not intend to support the proposed pension reform. What matters to me is that it is enshrined in Article 391 of the protection of the expected rights, which means that those who wish to meet the pension conditions of this year, even if they have not submitted the requirements, can retire under the applicable legislation. But if they insist on insurance, things will be a little bit different at work. Although pension reform is also built on the promise that an individual can choose whether to stay in work or not, it is a lot of illusion, because it depends on the employer. However, the fact is that for all categories this pension reform is certainly not a better solution and that individual rights, which is the pension, may be different from what an individual expects. Depending on the pension age, it depends on the pension base, and it would only point out that a percentage of the pension base will certainly be affected by the pension period. However, if someone can enforce time bonuses, it shows that this will affect the calculated amount of the pension. As it is said, 430 articles are too many for a person to tell about the kind of pension he will receive on a case-by-case basis. I expect that, after some five years, he will certainly mature in time and knowledge that everything that has been foretold in this pension reform cannot be fulfilled and that it will be necessary to go to law and hope that not with too much consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u30	Thank you very much. The word is from the Minister of Magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u31	Dear Members and Members! I am pleased and pleased that, following the presentation of the groups of Members, we are united that this law will receive very broad support. This is a very good journey towards the implementation of this law, and I think it is very good for our citizens and citizens, because this law has important positive effects that you have already mentioned. I am calling to explain how we have actually come up with these solutions. Indeed, from the procedure and solutions that the PPIZ-2 had rejected at the referendum, we have learned much. We listened primarily to people, but also to social partners, and set ourselves a different goal than it had been in the past. The goal is that people reach 40 years of retirement and that this is a condition for retirement. This is a change of perception and concept, and I believe that we could have come to this knowledge sooner if we listened to each other and in some way figured out what is still acceptable and not acceptable in the perception of Slovenian citizens. It is much more acceptable to write down that 40 years of work for a full pension is normally required for a full pension than to work up to 63 or 65 years of age. This may mean the same, but when you're dealing with perception, with some people looking at this question, 40 years of retirement is what's acceptable. This was also stressed by the unions, and that is why we have put this solution in place. In this way, I would like to say that we have not only modified a little at the rejected referendum, but we have conceptually changed it. Therefore, we had a different relationship with, say, time spent on compulsory military service or periods for a child and so on — we did not consider this to be something that is included in the working or retirement period without a sum, but because of these circumstances, the retirement age may be reduced. These are very, very important conceptual changes that have been. And one more thing, I am glad that this has been mentioned, and it seems to me that it is very important to stress. We are introducing really high bonuses for work over these minimum pension conditions for an old-age pension. For every three months, he works 1% of his life's higher pension. This seems to me to be a lot of people who have this option, who have a kind of job to which the health condition allows, where the situation at work is such that during these years they can work to stay at work, pay contributions and thereby strengthen their pension, their material position at the age and at the same time their pension allowance. So, honourable Members and Members, after these introductions, I thank you for such a well-intentioned and, last but not least, for your support for the forecasting approach. We will all monitor together the effects of this reform. I have already mentioned that these effects will not only be short-term. Here, too, some doubts were expressed in our financial forecasts. These predictions aren't ours, they didn't come from the Ministry of Labour. For financial forecasts of pension reform, a micro-simulation model has been developed at the Institute for Economic Research in the past, and all of these calculations available to us are calculations based on this model and are professional and do not have any alternative calculation that would be at least as credible as this one. I can say that the financial effects of this pension reform on pension funds will be immediate, i.e. in the coming year, that they will increase and that they will grow there to billions of euros per year in 2060. It is also true that we strive to grow old on average for about four months each year. This is a good achievement, I am pleased, but in the future this will probably require further corrections to the pension conditions due to this situation, but let us leave this to the future. I believe that we are living in such a dynamic changing world that it would be impossible to push solutions that will last 20 years or even more. It is likely that in the next term or mandate after that, the future government or that government that will follow the future government will also consider the necessary modifications and corrections to the pension conditions that we accept today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u32	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Katarina Hotchevar, prepare the mags. Jana Jenko, then Mag. Matthew Tonin and Mrs Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u33	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I welcome the Minister and you, my dear colleagues! The law on pension and disability insurance is a compromise between what is desired and what is possible. It's basically proof that there's no problem that we can't solve together. The law in the previous government was not in line with the social partners and we even decided on it at the referendum. I am pleased that, with much effort, dialogue and compromise solutions to be recognised by Minister Visiak, we have reached the third round today. I say it's a vote for marriage, a vote for the young and a vote for the pensioners. For young people in particular, because they are encouraged to join the insurance system as soon as possible. The law provides incentives for the employment of young people. Employers, who will for the first time employ an indefinite person up to the age of 26, will be able to apply a refund of 50% for the first year and 30% for the second year. In some ways, support for young people is also provided by deleting Article 113, paragraph 3, because we also allow for family pensions for those young people who marry or live in any other form of extramarital community at the time of school until the age of 26. However, citizens who are already retired are most likely to benefit from the trend towards a reduction in pensions. This would amount to only 56% of the salary that the insured received before retirement at the end of 2024. The new law will stop the drop in the dose percentage, which is crucial for the pension. As a Member of the National Gazette, I particularly welcome the introduction of so-called informational personal records. In doing so, we are taking an important step in the direction that the administration is service to citizens. There is also an obligation for the institution to inform citizens at the age of 58 of the opportunities and times when they can retire. Professional pensions are also a topic that has been reflected and stimulated in the professional public, mainly because we had different levels of contribution for the same form of rights. Solutions to review all jobs in the public sector, which have a bona fide working time, to establish clear criteria and clear criteria for the private sector and to set new conditions for professional retirement, are a good and appropriate path to a more transparent and fairer regulation of this area. I also welcome the amendment to Article 408, which regulates a three-year transitional period in which insured persons will be able to acquire two years of study age, i.e. 70 % of the average remuneration of an individual. This area is now dealt with more favourably for insurers than was foreseen in last year's version of the law. Today it is indeed one year since the parliamentary elections, during which time we have adopted many legislative, systemic solutions and so-called measures to come out of the crisis. It is time that we also have the first law on the table, which we consider to be a package of reform measures. I am pleased that it will be adopted by a broader social consensus and that, according to the social partners' assurances, it is not threatened by a referendum. It will also receive my voice with the desire that such dialogue and solutions will be acceptable to all stakeholders, so that we can do so in the context of the reforms that are ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u34	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, get Mrs. Masha Kociper ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u35	Hello again! At this point, I congratulate the Minister. I am sure that he has done a great deal of work in three months and that in this way Slovenia will take one step forward as such to get us out of the crisis. Regardless of how you look at this pension, as I said earlier in the introduction – whether this is an example of cooperation, or whether this is an example of indulgence – I am sure that the pension reform will in one way or another be reflected in the world, that we are able to agree on certain things in the Slovenian Parliament, because we have all too often given the impression that we are not able to agree on exactly any things in the last period. If I touch just a few things that seem important to me, it's only right that people are as familiar with them as possible. All those who meet the conditions of retirement under the old law by the new year will also be able to retire later, regardless of the fact that the new law will be adopted. The other thing that went hand in hand is that the elderly are unemployed. This is where a step was taken against them. For those who will not succeed in a month, so that by the new year they will not meet the requirements under the old law, but only sometime in February, March, this law provides for certain mitigating circumstances, more favourable harvesting of years and so on. I am sure that every group has tried to get as close as possible, that in the end the law was supported and also adopted. I would like to comment just one last thing, because some civil society organisations have said very loudly or out loud that this pension reform should be anti-socially oriented and that this country does not do enough for families. I would point out once again the thing I said in the view that in women, children are first taken into account at retirement age, and then in reducing retirement age. So, double. This is a step forward and this is the right thing to do. Nevertheless, today I have brought a magazine called Fireplace, which is well known for the more Catholic part of the Slovenian electoral body. A very good interview with a 12 - child family was published in this newspaper. Among other things, Father said – and I just want to read this paragraph to you, to see what things look like in practice, in the field, if I may say so. Mr Cyril said, "As long as there were only three children, there was no child support. But now they're getting it, because there's a lot of us, and the income per member is low. Besides, kids get scholarships. Since the wife has four children under the age of 10, the state pays her pension and disability insurance. I am telling you this because I would like to say that our society has something to give to large families or families with multiple children. Without this help, our children could not be as educated as they are." It's just one of the quotes. And when in the current situation we are just criticizing how everything is wrong, however, it is only right that we see in some things a little light at the end of a dark tunnel.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Chairman. I too will start by saying that there has been a lot of talk about pension reform, not just in the last few months, but in the last few years. Before the adoption of the law adopted by the former government, much had been said about it. When the representative of the ruling party told whom to thank for the fact that this law had been drafted – she said that the Government, students, pensioners, trade unions and so on – had forgotten to list the previous government, which had done a very big job here. This does not mean that in any way I am reducing the role of the current minister, we have already praised him several times today. I also really think that compromise is okay, acceptable, and I also agree with Mr Tonin, who says that those who break such a law will have to take responsibility for what they will do. It is right that people take responsibility for their actions in all areas. However, I cannot help but say that it is the responsibility of the current ruling party to break this reform one year ago, their reward or punishment, however we take it, to lead the government. If breaking the reform leads to you leading the government in the next term, then such a responsibility is a little ridiculous. Problems have accumulated for many years, and now they are finally being solved, which is right. What bothered me personally, and I'm going to talk a little bit wider here, is that people have waited so long for a reform, that many among them have retired as soon as they had the opportunity, just because they were afraid of the terrible pension reform that awaits them. I hope that we have now cut this off and brought some stability, though, as some say, for just a few years. The second absurdity with regard to this pension reform, which I have repeatedly pointed out, is that, on the one hand, after many years of dialogue, we extend the working age and age when people retire, which is normal, and on the other hand, we have been concealing unemployment for years by forcing people into retirement, including those who do not go. And, of course, what is happening now is under the current government, when laws are passed that violently retire young people who are still able to work and, on the other hand, prolong working hours and extend retirement conditions. What I am trying to say is that, once again, as long as jobs, new jobs and the start-up of the economy are not available, these problems will draw on them. There are also young people who do not believe that they will ever receive a pension. I was part of a larger society of young people, my age or younger people, where, in particular, a man's part of society had a vehemently debate on how to do everything not to pay pension contributions, because, "Old man, you know, we'll never see these pensions." Someone said, "You'd rather stick it in a Smurf than throw it out a window." This is certainly a trend that must concern us. I therefore welcome all these incentives for employers who will hire young people, and in particular all government measures, not only on this issue, but also on the wider scale, which will bring more discipline in the area of paying contributions, and also on what is directly linked to this, in the field of black work. What I would like to say is a problem that is also related to this reform and is much broader, which is a population ageing problem that is characteristic of the whole world and which will also increasingly concern Slovenia. This pension reform generally introduces 40 years of work, which on average for a man who started to work at 25 years of age – this is one of the averages when people start to work regularly – means that he will retire at 65 years of age. If we know that the average age measured today is 80 years for women almost 85 years, that means almost 20 years of life for someone who will be retired. Here too, at the level of the country with a long-standing policy, it will be necessary to think about how this part of the population will be actively involved in life. For for no one, even for his mental and physical health, is it not healthy to spend so many years inactive in some passivity, in some waiting. This can lead to illness and so on. It's not good for society, either. It might really be worth considering how to offer these people some additional forms of work, opportunities for additional work, to remain useful in society, that solidarity is developing in both ways, so that not only are young solidarity toward the old, but also old to the young. Perhaps for this government: Let us hear about solutions that encourage young pensioners, those who are able to do so, instead of having ten children in the nursery, to have some institutional opportunities to babysit children and so on. In terms of this last part of the debate, I also welcome bonuses for work over certain working hours. I think that this is in the right direction in the context of the said solution, and of course we will support this. I will conclude, as a positive statement, that our client also welcomes this law. It is not true that we have ever opposed him or that we have now changed our minds. Since the beginning of the mandate, positive Slovenia has continued to point out that this is one of the key laws, one of the key reforms to be adopted. When I hear a colleague from the coalition that this is the first law to be part of the reform measures, I am sad that this law came only after eight months, and even if the coalition sees it as such. Of course, everyone would like to see the reform adopted last year, then our country would be in a much better financial position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Minister Andrej Vizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u39	Thank you very much. In this debate, I would like to stress once again, because we are probably accompanied by audiences and viewers, one fact. True, every pension reform is accompanied by retirement. In fact, people are in uncertainty and think that the new law will make their conditions worse, better for them to retire. I would therefore like to inform everyone that by the end of this year all those who will be in force by the end of this year, because the law is intended to enter into force as of 1 January next year, have fulfilled the conditions for an old-age pension under the current law, namely the ZPIZ-1, maintain these conditions in advance. They may retire at any time under the same conditions. If you meet the conditions for retirement today, for retirement, please do not go for fear of new retirement solutions, because under these same conditions you will be able to retire whenever you want to in the future. These are the articles that provide for the so-called protection of expected rights. It is good to stress this repeatedly and always, for the worst part is that someone should go to peace because of ignorance or fear, only because of fear, if he still wants to do his job. The second thing I want to say is that no pension reform can solve this, a worrying relationship, an increasing relationship between pensioners and workers. We can further tighten the conditions, but we will not solve this problem unless at the same time we encourage economic growth, new jobs, new labour assets and this is also a very important segment, pension reforms. So the measures taken by the Government and Parliament over the last eight months or ten months of this government – including the budget at this meeting, which has a very large amount of money for investments. I hope that some of the incentives will also be given to new jobs and that this will be an important contribution. The pension reform, as mentioned above, also includes instruments to promote the employment of young people and the employment of older people at the same time. Indeed, after this bill, everyone working after 60 years of age has a 30% discount on contributions, and this is one important message that we make older workers more competitive and encourage employers to employ more.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Meh has the floor, Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic is preparing. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u41	Ladies and gentlemen! If I were to remind Mr Janez Janš, who spoke in this room about the fact that pension legislation will not have to be adopted and amended by 2015, of course I would be speaking in return today, but that is not even my purpose. But I would like to remind you that it is not necessary to praise the minister who has done and does his job as much as it is to commend the opposition, which is constructive, which helps and where we are talking together and agree on how best to solve the problem of retirement and the patience of the pension register, if I may simply say so. If we remember the last year and everything else I'm going to try to say, we could say that it's right to coerce species together and to adopt legislation that I think is the first stage of solving the problem of pensioners and retirement. Many pensioners and pensioners live below the threshold of all that is worthy, and there will be a lot more to be done in this area. It probably shows talking about it and changing what it takes for people to be able to say that they live in a social state. From this point of view, I believe that the possibility of employment or work has been ensured for over 40 years, but of course this must be done. Employers must do the same, not just those who take the job. I accept that and I support it. In all this matter we talked about one category of residents, namely pensioners, those who are still working and will retire. We must, however, talk about this today, also about new jobs, about opening new jobs, ensuring that young people are given a job and that they are optimistic about the time when they will have the opportunity to retire, and that they will believe that they will also receive this pension. Therefore, it seems unacceptable to me that at any time we are changing legislation backwards. When someone gets the right to a pension and has that right, then they shouldn't take it back. Since we are interfering with the rights we have acquired, this is not fair, it is not fair, and it brings confusion, fear, and fear, whether anything that should not have happened will have happened. And the responsibility for not accepting individual, proposed or adopted laws here in the National Assembly. So, if the opposition and the position have been agreed and in some way reconciled to support pension legislation, there are not yet agreed on here, there are a number of things not fully agreed with the unions. I would argue and suggest that we all make further efforts to comply with the unions. It is unacceptable, however, that today we are talking about the fact that those who do not accept this law, who will not support this law and who will work to break this law eventually, which has the right to trade unions, bear responsibility. The responsibility lies with us, ladies and gentlemen, if we have adopted a law that has not been harmonised, which has not fully supported today's situation, the situation between the social partners, between the Government and the National Assembly. To avoid all of this, after today's event, when I believe we will adopt this law, we will make an effort to agree with the social partners on how we will continue to amend the pension legislation that I think will need to be amended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič, prepare Mr Mitja Meršol.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u43	Mr. President, Mr. Andrej Vizjak! Today is an important day when we are aligned with both the opposition and the position, which means that dialogue and once again dialogue are very important. However, in order for dialogue to take place, we need a person who has a social sense, as Minister Vizjak has shown, so it would be good for you, Mr Vizjak, to consider or to consider moving you to the Ministry of Finance when you are done with these reform laws, which we will gladly support if you continue to do so. There would be a need for a man who is open and more ready for dialogue than is now happening, unfortunately that is my conclusion. People are filled with anger, apathy and hopelessness. People are disappointed in everything that's happened. The time of the crisis only further encourages even greater apathy, so the various austerity measures that we took in this mandate just at the time of the crisis, I think they were not the most resourceful, as has been shown in practice. What is happening in Slovenia, the dissatisfaction of people, the various extremists are growing and emerging, of course, is the result, we cannot help but see that this is due to poorly conceived austerity measures. Bad politics generates everything that's bad. Good policy is thoughtful, patient and I hope for such a policy, and I believe that we will be able to do so much wisdom that we will continue to do so in the future. Above all, it is important to promote social security and intergenerational solidarity by means of measures, for when a person feels threatened, unstable when he feels that the situation is inexhaustible, then there is a reaction and the reaction stirs up unrest. If we, the most responsible politicians in the country for this situation, are able to prepare our economy and our financial system, in order to eliminate the financial upheaval as soon as possible, in order to encourage and start our economy in order to enable the employment of young people, one continuity and a chain of payments of pension funds will be established here. If we can and can do this, if we follow those countries that have already shown what is right and what is wrong – we do not need to learn everything on our own mistakes, let us imitate someone who has already proved to be an example of good practice – and I miss that many times. For the stability of the pension and disability system, it is a key indicator of the stability of the state and the basis for the social security of citizens and citizens. How does that reflect? They show it with their pleasure. The fact is, they're not happy in our country. Why do young people go to the streets, why do extremists appear, and so on? When a young child comes home and asks his father, a mother for some money, because he needs it either for lunch or for any matter — in the age of the Internet, young people see what is happening around the world. Once, Grandma was happy to give up something of a pension, but if she doesn't, if everything shrinks, if the generator of everything that represents the sustainability of public finances stops. Here, the real economy has stopped. Economic growth may only be a dream. I hope and believe that this will stop once and for all, that we will know how to take such measures that will lead the country in the coming months and years to at least the initial step, to the first step, to show that the measures are real, resourceful. If I had such important laws as this reform and all other laws passed by a two-thirds majority – this time we will certainly vote in favour and will be 100% supported by this law in the third reading – then all referendums would be dropped. Let us not commit ourselves to the people. Here we are elected to accept this responsibility, to act responsibly and to adopt slowly, patiently, thoughtfully, laws that will also be passed in practice – if adopted by the social partners, if adopted by all opposition and coalition parties – this is guaranteed. We're just taking a look at what's going on in the country. If we object to certain measures because we consider them harmful, you don't believe us and then the street happens. I hope that we are so full-time that we know that it is better to sit back for more time, to take time to think, to take the right measures, to make citizens and citizens more satisfied, and not least of all us. Bad will doesn't do anyone any good. I would like to start creating laws in this National Assembly that will promote economic growth, which will actually bring happiness and satisfaction to all the homes of our citizens and citizens, so that we can walk proudly in our Slovenia, not that when we get to the street, we will hide whether we are such or different politicians. People who are dissatisfied are not interested in who is the opposition Member, who is the post MP. People show this with general dissatisfaction and this general dissatisfaction will continue to be generated if we do not stop the horses unless we imagine ourselves here. We, dialogue, dialogue and once again dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin has the word, prepare the mag. Ivan Vogrin, then Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Vice President. A nice greeting to the Minister and a co-worker! I think there is no one in this Chamber who is unaware of the need to ensure long-term sustainability of the pension system and to provide beneficiaries with adequate compensation when they retire. Even in our party, pension reform was a high priority and we were somewhat disappointed when the government did not give it up at the inauguration. I think it was wrong and it would not just have to wait for the feedback from abroad and do this, but it could be as soon as that marriage year expired when the previous reform of the referendum fell. Of course, demographic trends, actuarial calculations have shown that we will have to work longer, but I am pleased that in this reform, there is not only a certain minimum for retirement, but that we also have an appropriate system of maluses and bonuses that somehow stimulate people to work longer. As I am one of the older generations, it is important to improve working conditions for older people, not least to ensure adequate measures, which is also in this law to stimulate the work of older people, but I must mention once again that this is contrary to the ZUJF, which, on the other hand, forces people to retire immediately when minimum conditions arise. I think that a few more things would be needed in terms of the promotion of this law, in particular, which has already been discussed on our part today, to inspire confidence in consumers, young people in order to work. However, I think it is necessary to promote and strengthen the second and third pillars of the pension system and to find a certain system of this stimulation. Of course, nothing will help to make this reform not only short-term unless we activate or employ young people more quickly in the sustainability of the pension system. Only this will strengthen the number of contributors to the pension system in the long term, and this task remains open. Finally, I can say that there is no problem that the opposition would not support good proposals. That's what we've always done, and we'll do it. However, we will not support matters that already carry some kind of legal, even constitutional or fundamental human rights in their genes. We do not expect our support under such laws. Here, in this case, I think that this is an example, which has already been said, how should some of your others, I will say, colleagues in the government imagine and do not apriorously reject what the opposition proposes. I think that together we can come up with better solutions, and I hope that this will also be a practice in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I have one change, Mrs Renata Brunskole, and Mr Ivan Grill is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u47	Thank you very much. How nice to meet you! I will support the proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance or, as we call it, a new pension reform. Last year's pension reform, which has been, hand-to-heart, even more favourable than what we are currently considering, I supported. However, there have been referendums, referendums against reforms, referendums against the government, but apparently the current coalition and the Minister have more luck, including the opposition, even in Positive Slovenia, as far as this is concerned, we are kinder. We are thinking very rationally, constructively, connectingly and in particular we want good for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, we act constructively and coherently when we know that there are good proposals, when it comes to necessity and when it comes to necessary amendments to the laws. A very important message is also to all those who will meet the conditions of retirement by the end of the year following this law and will be able to retire at any time, that it is not necessary for them to hurry this year and that they will retire this year, as we like to say. However, we also need to think about younger generations, so those of us who are representatives of younger generations, we will have to have 40 years of working age, which is often asked by someone. That's when we started working plus 40 years, and that's gonna be our date of retirement. Of course, marriage is slightly worse for us women; it compares us with men, but we are also Members, co-decisions with fellow Members, prepared, ready to accept for the benefit of finally restoring peace, restoring trust, restoring uncertainty and concern for our pensioners, including all our citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I am also pleased and pleased that, obviously, the previous reform, last year, has brought a little easier work to the ministry, to the Minister, including to the coalition and the opposition, that we have come to a common point. I'm not exactly sure that everything is in harmony with the partners so much that everyone, as someone would say, would scream with enthusiasm. However, the reform is necessary, necessary, necessary, and I am pleased that, in the first year following last year's parliamentary elections, we will arrive, coalition and opposition, at a common point in the welfare of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. This does not mean that it will always be so – if the proposals of the coalition are such that they would act to the detriment of property, to the detriment of the economy and the banking system and all other areas, pre-school education, education, public health, public education, which would harm citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and would lead to discrimination and separation of people into elites, poorer and richer. I will support and congratulate the proposal for pension reform to all of us who have participated in this and also to the competent minister and ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Grill has the floor, Mr Matevž Frangež is preparing and then Mag. Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u49	Thank you so much for saying so, very nice greeting to everyone! If this was the constructive nature of the opposition and, last but not least, of the social partners right after February 10th, when the government swore, I am sure that not only this law would be under the roof today, but also many others, urgently needed and the situation in Slovenia would be significantly better than it is today. I'm afraid that wasn't the case. At least this law has shown that fortunately reason has prevailed among the social partners who have played a very important role in the negotiations on this very important law. Then you joined the opposition in this, which we welcome. Last but not least, it would be difficult to resist if solutions were agreed between the minister and the social partners, which were largely consensual. If anyone expects all the solutions to be satisfactory to all of us, it is likely that too much is hoped for. This is simply not possible, and I am sure that one or two years ago with trade unions would have made it significantly harder to reach consensus solutions such as these today. Fortunately, probably a little late, too, they realize that the devil has taken the joke and that the situation in Slovenia is extremely serious and that we must take the responsibility of everyone. It is true that we bear the greatest part of the responsibility of Members and Members, and not least of all the Government, but everyone who is unjustifiably opposed in any way must also bear responsibility, sometimes for biased reasons, which undermines important legislation in an inappropriate way. Look, the unions have made it impossible for those who have broken a lot of marriages or referendums to pass the law, and they have no such responsibilities. They are primarily responsible to their members, while the other social groups are not, which is a completely different situation in which we are Members and Members. Today we are hearing the obvious that it has been more than eight months since we have a law that is extremely important and crucial in this reform package. I'd be glad if we had this marriage in place a long time ago. What took you so long? Mostly for the sake of negotiation. The negotiations were long-term. And I'm also handing out congratulations that Minister Vizjak was a good negotiator, that he was good at negotiating, that he was good at letting go. Finally, the social partners, who were able to assess where they could give in at those key points that separated the rapprochement, were able to do so. A compromise has been reached here, and everyone deserves it. Earlier, a communication was made by colleague Gaspar Gaspar Mišić that laws should be adopted in Parliament by a two-thirds majority and that there would then be no conflicts or referendums. I agree with that, but, respectable opposition, this is not an impossible mission. There's no honesty in your statements. I'm just going to say one case where you have no valid reason to reject a solution, namely a fiscal rule, a golden fiscal rule. Even though you were at the time of the electoral campaign and immediately after the elections all the supporters and supporters of the golden fiscal rule to enter the Constitution, you then objected to this without a valid reason. There would be no financial implications. There's no ideological separation. This was a conjecture so that this government could not possibly have owned that the rule was enshrined in the Constitution. I firmly believe, however, that on the basis of such a communication to the international financial institutions and, last but not least, to the European Union, the debt we still need in Slovenia would be significantly more favourable, under better conditions and easier. This statement of readiness that all laws should be adopted with two-thirds support – I firmly believe that this would be impossible to achieve. Again, I also have to deny those findings or allegations that we who are the laws of the previous government have been talking about STIZ-2 and have broken up in the referendum. That law received more than 70% of the support, which means that the vast majority of people were dissatisfied. And at that time, in this very hall, we opposed some of the solutions in that law, and we supported the vast majority. That is why it is due to the fact that we today will adopt this law with a great consensus, that we have taken great account of the solution. But for those of the most controversial who were both disturbing to the social partners and not least to us, we were able to agree. At these points, we have drawn close to each other, and the law is quite different than it was then, and we must all admit that. I'm not going to say that the marriage is perfect, but we can label it with the illusion that it's pretty universal. Under relatively favourable conditions, which in no way can be better than they have been in the past, which, due to aging, is entirely impossible to expect, it also provides a pre-retirement opportunity for those who want to do so as soon as they have met the first condition, for many people are still subject to the famous human river that I remember from their younger years of retirement, and they say that it doesn't matter how much the pension is, especially how much you get. I believe that with such a view, a number of people who have struggled through their work, who are willing to retire, will also comply with the first condition and retire. However, there will be some who enjoy their work even in their old age and who will want to continue to show themselves at work and thus contribute to society’s knowledge and experience and a slightly higher pension. And last but not least for the young. I am sure that some young people may be a little skeptical when they now think that this reform is practically irrelevant to them and that they will never be able to wait for those years when they retire. Each of them, when he thinks back, sees how fast the decades have gone, the same will be true of our young ones. Given that the age period will also be extended in the future, it means that those who will now be employed at 25 or perhaps even later will also receive pensions or pensions at the age of 65 or even more, since it is likely that in a few decades this age period will have to be adapted again to demographic conditions and, finally, to the economic situation of the country for which I believe, if we are wise enough to improve it and that this law, which has shown that we know how to unify ourselves, will lead us to find the right solutions for the following important reform laws, to confirm them and to withdraw Slovenia from this invisible situation as soon as possible. Let's just let it surprise us and prove that we can do it. I will support this law, and I believe that all people will gain this law and there will be no dissatisfaction or need for any reflection on the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u51	Thank you for your word. I will support pension reform because I think that social insurance systems need to be reformed, adapted to the changed demographic situation, in order to keep them effective for tomorrow. What is missing all the time in our social security system is a well-founded promise that young people who are paying for their pension insurance today will one day await their pension. As you know, there are more and more young people who doubt that. This country is responsible for giving them a reasonable expectation that the state is behind its pension system and is reforming it, so it keeps it strong for tomorrow, so that when the time comes, you too will receive your rights. Otherwise, I will leave the main time in this debate to the opportunity to discuss the amendments. I think there's still a few things we can do to improve the law through today's debate, so we're squandering the tea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u52	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Ambrožich. Prepare Mr Jožef Jerovšek and follow him Mr Only Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u53	Thank you for your word, chairman! I'll support the proposal myself. As we say today, we are considering the proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance, where there is a close link between the demographic and pension age. Today, it has been repeatedly pointed out that this is only a partial solution, such as, in fact, all future solutions dealing with this extremely important issue, as we will meet this reform in the long term or in the medium term, on the basis of Minister Visiak's statements in 2020. The aim of the proposal is to ensure the stability and sustainability of the pension fund, taking into account to a large extent demographic indicators that point out that quality of life changes the definitions of ageing. Let us just remember that in the Middle Ages, the life expectancy of an individual averaged up to 35 years. Today, demographic statistics show that men on average can reach 78 years of age and women outnumber us for 7 years. Sennett wrote: "A society that does not create a deep need for people to care for one another cannot long justify its existence." It is therefore a coordinated proposal from both the coalition and the opposition, and I personally think it is even more important that the comments of the interested public, which have been sufficiently taken into account in the process of producing this proposal, are coordinated or taken into account. That is why, as I say, I support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word. Get ready, Mr. Ivan Simčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u55	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Our pension system is based on intergenerational solidarity, which means that when workers pay contributions on the other hand, they directly ensure the payment of pensions to pensioners. At the same time, this means that the sustainability of the pension system depends mainly on the number of people and their age. And a particularly unfavourable demographic structure or demographic situation requires adjustment of the pension system. We need to stop the reduction of pensions and early retirement, otherwise future generations of workers will have to help their retired parents and further save for their old age when paying unaltered contributions. We all agree that reform of the pension system is necessary. The pension system was last substantially amended in 2000. Even then, the government sent to the National Assembly a proposal for a law that was not in line with the social partners, but then the final product was acceptable to all. This time it is no different, because yesterday afternoon, after negotiations with the social partners, there were still open issues of the pension benefit for men and transitional periods due to the abolition of the working time for the study period, which was also one of the main features of the Slovenian Democratic Party during the previous Svetlik reform. Today we will see how they decide on these amendments. As it is said, the new pension law must be adopted for a number of reasons, mainly because of the unfavourable demographic conditions of early retirement, the late entry of young people into the labour market, the weakening of the pension allowance, the decrease in the value of the initial pension and the impreciseness of the current system and the increase in public debt. I was convinced by this law at a time when the government coalition decided, mainly because of the opposition's perceptions, that 170 000 pensioners, as Minister Vizjak said, would not move transparently into the state budget, which I think would mean that these pensions would be paid from the so-called cash social transfers, which would automatically bring about a permanent and gradual reduction in pensions. This amendment to Article 408, is a step that convinces me that I will support this pension reform today. The country drowned in a referendum swamp last year, and that wasn't good. Where did this story come from, we see it today. The funds for those five referendums in the previous term, which were mainly requested by the Slovenian Democratic Party and trade unions, could be used more usefully for scholarships and new jobs. I looked at what happened after the adoption of the pension reform in the National Assembly on 14 December 2010. On 14 December 2010, an absolute majority of Members and Members of the National Assembly voted in favour of the former government's pension reform. We received 49 votes in favour of this reform, 35 against them, particularly the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian National Party. The next day, the unions put forward an initiative for a referendum, including the State Council decided to veto and once again, when we voted on the elected veto of the National Assembly, we won 49 votes in favour of the law, only 30 against it. And then, as a result of the referendum initiative on this law, we lost another six months to reach a super referendum week, June 2011, when three laws were broken, including pension reform. If the constructive nature of the previous opposition were such as the constructive nature of today's opposition, then the pension law would enter into force on 1 January 2012 and have almost one year's experience with the new law, and we have lost valuable time. As it is said, due mainly to the amendment of Article 408, and also to some other things that have been aligned with the social partners, this time I will be more than fair, or I will be extremely constructive and correct, and I will support this law, contrary to all the events of the previous term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Simčič has the floor, Mr Roman Jakič is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u57	Mr Vice-President, Minister-in-Office of the United States of America! A new pension law or pension reform, as we call it, is necessary. This is indicated by demographic figures, and let’s be honest; based on the current law, people aged 40 were retired. Undoubtedly, this is a decisive reason for the exhaustion of the pension fund, which is now practically an empty bag. Postponements, exemptions, when employers merely charged the contributions but did not pay them, for which many workers did not even know. This is totally unacceptable. The new pension law foresees an increase in the age of the insurance age, and it will be necessary to work up to 60 years under the condition of 40 years of the age of insurance, the human term, the working age. The law does not destroy the so-called relief, namely for children, the army, which is right. The reduction for children will in principle be exercised by a woman, which is right, unless the parenthood was led by a man. Some argue that women are disadvantaged by this law because they are equal to men, but I advocate "equal conditions for all". Women have a higher priority in the enforcement of children as well as a higher percentage of pensions. The latter represents a mitigation of unequal payments for the same work. Women get a smaller salary for the same job as men. I come from the Municipality of Ilirska Bistrica, which has been geographically threatened and infrastructurally separated from accessible lifelong institutions in the Republic of Slovenia for the past 22 years, so I believe that pensions will be even more equitable when we consider pensioners living in rural areas or in geographically remote and less accessible places. The geography of our country is a pressing problem, which also affects pensioners. Rural life is much more difficult during working hours and especially during the third life period. Access to everyday goods, such as food supply, access to infrastructure, social life and, above all, access to health care institutions, are a major burden for rural pensioners. Social work centres are pooling and shrinking and cannot meet the needs that people in rural areas need. And if I go back to pension reform. The fact is that calculations show that already the banal pension under the applicable law is higher than the pension that can be expected under the new law, at least during the transitional period. I strongly hope, however, that after the transition period, the minister or government will ensure that pensions and even higher pensions are stopped. I hope that these guarantees will be realized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Jakič has the word, prepare the mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u59	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President! The substantive discussion has already been discussed by my colleagues and colleagues, and I will discuss the political content of today's law before us. Given that I am one of the more energetic critics of the government and Prime Minister Janez Janš, I hope that because of the following words or my words about the minister, the Minister himself will not have any problems in the party and, of course, in the coalition. In truth, for the first time, we received a law at the National Assembly, which was in line with the social partners, in line with the professional public and in line with the opposition. Here I would warn or repair Mr Grill, who says there was a constructive opposition here. I would've turned this around, but here, listening to the coalition was better than it was in other laws. In fact, the Minister introduced a new methodology, which I hope will be followed in some way by other ministers. In fact, it points to politics and politics, probably because it is tired of sharing "ours", but it is more in the interest of the quality of the proposal than the name of the proposer, and this is a big thought leap that I definitely welcome. Perhaps he would be most pleased, but no one can be completely happy if the Union of Education, Education, Science and Culture and the Confederation of the Public Sector Union in Slovenia were to be fully agreed on, but it was probably necessary to cut down on some point and come to Parliament for votes. I do not want to draw a parallel with other laws, especially those in which we have conceptual differences, and it will be harder to find compromise than under the law on pension and disability insurance, but I say that in Slovenia we would not have two referendums in the procedure if Minister Šušteršič were to follow the Vision and listen carefully to what the social partners are telling him, what the professional public has to say, and above all this is a political message on which the opposition offers the cooperation hand. To insist on not adopting a better marriage solution just because of the name of the proposer is not productive for anyone, but at least for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who expect us to have some constructive cooperation. But it can't just be one-way, it has to be two-way. And, Minister, thank you for taking this path that I've been talking about, is the right one and the only one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u60	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dejan Židan, prepare Mr Branko Ficko, followed by Mrs Sonja Ramšak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u61	Mr. President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State! I think you have a real problem, Minister, because today we are praising you on the wrong side. I'm afraid there's gonna be some kind of defense tonight, but then come back, and we'll comfort you. I've been thinking about how to make this speech, but it's a problem, Minister, because we're dealing with you. You weren't the attacker of a referendum story that did such damage. You were not the one who said publicly that we needed a new reform in the pension system in 2015 or later. So it would actually be unfair to start these stories and talk about them. What's important is what you showed today in the presentation, this awful curve. This curve that you have shown says that we do not change the pension system because we do not like citizens or citizens, we do not change it because we do not like pensioners or pensioners. It's the other way around. We like them. Because we love them, the pension system has to be sustainable. At this point, he's no longer abstinent. Our monthly burdens are likely to be close to 120 million euros, and they are likely to continue to rise. This Slovenian budget simply cannot sustain it. What is evident from the law itself is the following. To a large extent, you have respected the old law. Whether 90, 85, 95% of the old law is still unchanged or not. You respected him. This gift, which you received from your predecessor, you were able to take advantage of. I only count that as a plus. You've been talking to social partners. Most of the things you've agreed on, some of them you haven't. Perhaps today, some of the meetings will be coordinated. What is important – you have understood what constructive opposition is. The constructive opposition does not mean that we bow to every government proposal. The constructive opposition means that the one who is stronger, and the government is stronger, more listening and more attentive to us. You did it, and that's good. However, Slovenian citizens and citizens must only be aware that, in fact, pension reform is always taking place. If the old pension reform that fell at the referendum was taken in a way that prolonged the period when our citizen could go to retirement — this is now changing — it actually makes a relatively strong shift in two other areas. The first area is the pension benefit, which is worse than the previous law, which did not survive the referendum. Secondly, what is important is that this reform does not follow the principle that was a golden principle in the previous reform. And this is that it is necessary to definitively stop the real fall of pensions to Slovenian pensioners and pensioners. What must also be said is that this reform, which is now taking place, is not definitive. This reform clearly follows certain demographic curves. This reform also follows the capacity of the Slovenian budget in the final stage. This reform suggests that a new reform will be needed relatively quickly. But there's nothing wrong with that. That's what you clearly predicted. Whether it will be in two years, in three years, in five years, whether it will be in this government or any other government, we do not know, but the reform is temporary and the stabilisation of the pension system will be the task that will await our country – I hope that in a similar agreement as it will be today – several more times in the next 10, 20, 30 years. Finally, the honourable Minister: if the other ministers in this government were like you, then they would not claim that the Government is weak and that it is harassing Slovenian citizens and citizens, but unfortunately most ministers are not like you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Stanko Stepišnik, prepare Mrs Sonja Ramšak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I like that when we come together, the synergy to achieve the goal set, that's the pension reform. I like it when 90 Members and Members think about the same goal. I like that we all aim to adopt legislation that is good both for people and for the country. I like that the government has listened to and implemented initiatives, thoughts, suggestions, positions and opinions of the opposition. I like that this was the first time this year that the opposition's proposals were taken into account. I like this work and should become a permanent parliamentary practice. Ladies and gentlemen, I like that I have finally become an active and well-respected citizen. I support the reform! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Stephnik. It is Mrs Sonja Ramšak who is preparing Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u65	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I like what my predecessor said, too. Stanko, of course we come from the same end, and that's probably why we like all this. I also like the fact that today the culture of dialogue and the respectful relationship between us Members and Members apply in this Chamber, because I think we are also communicating something important to the Slovenian public. I must personally commend the Minister, who has reached not only an agreement with the social partners with his team, but also an agreement between us, between the coalition and the opposition. Mr Minister, thank you very much, we want more of such bright moments in Slovenian politics. I will personally support the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, because I believe that we will achieve this – which I think must be repeatedly stressed, and what my predecessors and ministers have already stressed – two goals: we will ensure decent pensions and ensure the financial sustainability of the pension register. I think that, as far as decent pensions are concerned, all those who have worked for 40, 35 years deserve a decent pension, not that they depend on various social transfers. I also believe that it is good to point out more than once that the so-called introduction of a net dose percentage does not mean that pensions will be lower, but rather that, in order to halt the decline of the valorisation factor and at the same time fix the replacement rate at the level applicable this year, new pensioners will be provided with pensions comparable to those currently available. I am also pleased that the working or insurance period is at the forefront, not the retirement age, as was the proposal of last year's Svetlik's pension reform. It is true that I was among those who advocated last year that pension reform is not necessary, because it was the only short-term measure promoted by the current government, and I do not want to reduce the contribution of the current arrangements. Indeed, today there are other times and indeed the situation in Europe, the world and also in Slovenia has deteriorated dramatically. I'm glad that this pension brings you more than you can pay in your pension, and you can expect a bigger pension. I am particularly glad that bonuses and small ones remain. Those who want to continue their work will earn a higher pension and can be part of the pension, according to 20% of the pension, enjoy whatever he remains active. Although I rarely agree with the opposition in my statements, I must say that today I strongly agree with my colleague Andrea Črnak Meglič, who, when we confirmed this bill in the second reading, said that she had won the mind. Yes, all I'm adding is that she's won the mind, she's won the mind, and she's won the compromise. I wish we could do this in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Well, in order to continue in the same style, I must say that I like that it is Mrs Savinjak's turn, Mrs Marija Plevčak, to prepare Mrs Alenka Bikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u67	Yes, thank you very much for the floor, Mr Savinjač. The pension reform was a thorn in the heel probably for all of us. It has already begun to be addressed by the previous government, the current government, and the second proposal has upgraded and improved it to such an extent that today we can all be most pleased with what has been proposed. Comments will remain, for I sincerely hope that the pension law will ensure decent pensions, that they can be spent at least over a month with them, and that it will always take care of the provision of the pension fund. We all know that pensions have been almost uncoordinated since 2010, especially in the last year, and that they have actually fallen significantly, and that a large number of pensioners among the poor have been unable to cover their costs from month to month. The threshold of poverty — we know that it is rising rapidly and that the current threshold of poverty is 600 euros. Let us hope that the new law will at least provide new pensioners with such an amount of pension. We do know, however, that a large number of current, already retired are essential beyond this threshold. That is why I hope, and also in this law, that pension coordination is foreseen already in 2013 at EUR 50 million, which is obtained each year from the Pension and Disability Insurance Fund of the Capital Society. We have also firmly stated in our coalition contract that coordination is necessary, otherwise we have demanded twice a year, but, given the situation we are in, we also agree on coordination once a year. I think there's something else to say about pensions. We must not keep our eyes closed that there are many who will retire with very low personal incomes. As a result, the amount paid for pensions is very low, and I hope that from this point of view we will continue to be in solidarity with each other, that we will not insist on those calculations that will be sent to us in 2015 and that these amounts would not accidentally be the basis for calculating pensions. At that time, we will likely have a bitter taste and great dissatisfaction about these things. We all know what personal benefits are now. There's something else I'm worried about sometimes: the possibility of prolonged work when you meet the 100 percent pension requirement. I don't mind the extended work, but on the other hand, I always have young people in front of me who aren't employees who don't get a job. I think that after the adoption of this law we will also have to take care of the area that is collecting budgetary resources from our treasury. As far as the referendums are concerned, only this comment would be made. In my opinion, referendums are a legitimate right, but I do not think that in all cases, there are things where it is necessary to determine what is going on in the referendum and what must be decided by the government, the professional services and the Parliament. A pension reform with all the amendments coming in, I will support.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor, Mr Mirko Brulc is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished and Mr. Minister with co-worker! The Pension and Disability Insurance Act-2 is only the first major reform to be adopted in all four years, which the state of Slovenia is literally detaining under the weight of the global crisis. This is a disruptive event with long-term positive consequences. This is also the first very important signal for Europe that Slovenia is very serious with the announced inevitable structural reforms. Today's, I hope to predict, unanimous support for the Pension and Disability Insurance Act is a demonstration of my often expressed claim that we know Slovenians in key moments to step together and that as long as we have parliamentary democracy, we can only return Slovenia's hope. So today we have enough reason to celebrate the first anniversary of the first early elections since we have our own country. It's not about celebrating a rather infamous anniversary, but it's about our national constituency demonstration of unity. This pleases me and this is good and here goes really thanks to all those who have led to this moment, to this harmonisation of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which will receive support today. From last year's, unfortunately, failed generals of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act number 2 we've all learned a lot. Minister Mag. Andrej Vizjak realized he had to change the concept. This one is actually very logical. If there are more and more beneficiaries on the pension fund, we need those who are currently paying into this cash register, and unfortunately this number does not increase, doing so for a longer time. This is based on current calculations for 40 years, of course at the same rates of contribution. We have analysed the table several times, which very clearly suggests that if we did not intervene in pension legislation, the current pensions would be drastically reduced. Only an example of an average female pensioner who has or would have had or would have had in 2013 a pension of EUR 560 in the following year, which would be 11 years or 12 years later, is a pension of only EUR 425 in 2024. So her pension would have been reduced by about 25%. With today's solution, the fall in pensions is virtually halted and in about 12 years it will only be lower for nuances in the parameters we know today. When we discuss pension reform, I would like to inform the younger generations that it is necessary to think about what will happen in 40 years from the moment they enter the labour relationship – God forbid they all have it. I want to show that even better Slovenian savings are showing that from the first day we enter the working relationship, savings must be made for the so-called third life period. Not much, maybe one coffee a day. In Slovenia we have a very good offer of various financial instruments, various products that are good at upgrading and rewarding our savings. During this debate, my thoughts are also focused on rural areas, especially in the Mura region – there was a talk today about rural areas – where there were never any strong industrial entities, because mainly people were living with agriculture and this pension reform will not bring them much. To these, many live on the social floor, many know them in the country near Mura, we must all be very careful, as we are today united in discussing and adopting the law on pension and disability insurance. Let me conclude with the thought that, despite the unity of all 90 Members of Parliament and Members here in the National Assembly, I will finally believe that we have parliamentary democracy in Slovenia. I'll give my vote to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor, prepare for Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Good-bye! This debate on amendments in the National Assembly has obviously not yet been held. I'm very glad that some of the positions have finally come to mind. We're two years behind schedule, but it's never too late if it's done well. Mr. Secretary here has completed the task for which he has been elected. Some things are happening. The withdrawal of the VAT law is to be welcomed, the withdrawal of article 408. of this law is a good act, but we have some minor matters that would greatly contribute to what we all say and want when we talk about cooperation. RTV contribution – don't do anything stupid, leave those 50 cents, standards in kindergartens and other small things, and then we can talk about the position with the opposition and vice versa. Unfortunately, this proposal does not fully satisfy the social partners, but we will never reach 100% satisfaction and we have already said this two years ago. Let us adopt a law, and in two, three, four years, we will fix it, and it is no big deal. But I must say, this marriage is still unfair to women. Since you've been living longer, you'll be working harder. You get a bonus if you want to work more than prescribed by law. One thing they're going to get is those who work in public administration. When they get to retirement, they have to go home. There's no bonus. But as you live longer, you become widows, and you will not even consider the home of the pensioners, so that by the marriage of the female sex this law is unjust and this will have to be fixed once. Because that woman who works for the running tape for 8 hours or some hard work, she'll be able to take advantage of the bonus if she's not disabled after all these years. Workers in public administration, in public institutions and so on, do not have the right to benefit from the bonus. I would be pleased, but I know that this is illusory – a real pension would be the one that would allow a pensioner to survive at a retirement home with the lowest standard of his age at an old age, not to say that he could end up in a hospice that this government somehow does not accept as his wing. There's still a lot to discuss, so we're here and I think there's some energy to put what I've put together in order over time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor. Get Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! On the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the unions told us why they were against previous pension reforms. The governments of that country have proposed in writing three times in writing that they want a pension reform where it will be possible to obtain a retirement pension for 40 years without a sum, a retirement pension without a malus in combination with 60 years of age and benefits. They considered that the law we are now enacting is such — that the minister listened to the basic demands of the unions, or that their demand has been fulfilled. In addition, they were able to negotiate a few reliefs in this minister, just as some of them were talking about, both in women and in men, 100 % of the insurance period before the age of 18, because we were all alerted to those who started work before their 18th birthday and worked usually in difficult physical jobs and were also very poorly paid. They also viewed as positive that, given that we will all work much longer, we also need to take into account or introduce some motivational function of the system. That is why we set the dose of the first pension, we cut off the valorization factor, which has been wrong for many, or has been considered unjust by many, and has actually caused a real fall in pensions. The bill is also more transparent. It will be easier to see the relationship between paid contributions and pensions, which was also one of the demands of us, then the opposition, i.e. the individual account, or to restore confidence in the pension fund with such an account. Your minister didn't want to do that. He didn't even want to hear it. We have warned you that a social agreement has not been adopted, that it is not clear what and how it will be coordinated. The government didn't listen enough to the unions, and it wanted to force too much force to enforce certain things. And if you viewed that pension reform as a key project, as important, why didn't you invite us, the opposition, to participate? You didn't coordinate with us for a minute, you didn't want us to cooperate. It's just that we do things differently, and we've always done things like this. You have a proposal for cooperation on the table from the first day of our government. The same was true in the first term of the government of Janez Janša in the years 2004 to 2009, and we were able to come up with many good solutions together. Just remember the series of tax changes that have led to economic growth, more employment and more – what we are always talking about, more jobs and so on. You also received documents for the pension reform or the law of ZPIZ-2 at the table, both opposition parties, inviting you to comply with the minister. The day he began to coordinate with the social partners, I would also coordinate with you if we wanted to. That's not what you wanted. So, we can talk about the difference between you and us, but we do things differently. We want to talk to you, we want to achieve the widest possible consensus within politics and also with the social partners, because these are things that are important for Slovenia and never can only a government coalition, and not in our system, where it is usually weak, which consists of several parties, bring the best solutions. We understand or know that we do not know everything that we are not the only and the best, and we are also interested in the opinions and arguments of the opposition, the opinions and arguments of the social partners. Some of you have told us that we have said that pension reform is not necessary, that it is not necessary, or that it will be in just so many years. That's when we warned why we're doing this. If we had then taken our proposals into account, not that we had obtained 60,000 new unemployed in three years, that means 60,000 fewer contributors to the pension fund, 60,000 people to whom we pay unemployment or various social assistance and so on. All of this may not have been the case if one of the measures proposed four months after the appointment of the new government – April 2009 – and even today's economists say that Slovenia would not have been in such a situation if these things had been adopted three years ago as we proposed. Some say that this reform is even worse than Svetlikova was. Then we are so much better if we are able to reconcile it with everyone and accept it. Others say that it is happiness — it is not happiness, it is knowledge, it is willingness to agree and not only see what you think is right, but listen to others too, because many know or know more about us. It was also mentioned that we force a public servant's pension to force people to retire. In peace we are really forcing, but we are forcing, public servants, because we have increased the public sector in these years so that we simply can no longer endure it. Your government's password was also "a lean public sector, a thin state", and the result was defeated – nothing, only more employees. With the measures taken by this government, there are two thousand fewer employees in the public sector within a few months, and it is mostly on the basis of people who are eligible to retire. It is unacceptable for me to have a teacher in the classroom who has been eligible for retirement for five years and a young teacher from the university hangs coats at the Elephant Hotel. If this is Mr. Struckle's union fight, we've come a long way. That is why I agree with those who say that we have to hire young people and that this is more promising than some in the public sector in particular, not to say to the Enforcement Authority – because we have 78-year-olds here who are indispensable. I'm sorry, I don't believe that! And that's why it bothers me that we tolerate such things. Then the dilemma is that a teacher with a thousand 500 euros of salary will be very difficult to carry two more children in the group, while a special unit for a thousand euros is outside, which a granite cube can hit his head every day, which is a little excessive for some things. Then some of you estimated that you might need to protect your pensioners at home. Of course, we have encouraged this and in the previous mandate 2004-2008 we have adopted such a form of protection at home, and this is what many do. But when we talk about it, we hear from you that we are destroying public education, because home security is private. Someone as a private person protects children at home and when something like this is proposed – even though it would burden the congregations that have to build kindergartens when there are so many more births, which is certainly encouraging and fun, but why would we not have at this time more women or men protecting children at home than to invest in kindergartens that we will build in five, six years when things may not be real anymore. We need to look at things from multiple angles. In the Group of Positive Slovenia, you said you were constructive. Why are you not so constructive at a bad bank if you really want to clean up the banking system, to do something in this area too, to answer the protesters who write on banners, to bring money from Cyprus, Switzerland, tax havens and so on? International Monetary Fund supported [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] May I, ma'am?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u74	Mrs. Jeraj, you can discuss this. I suggest you focus on the law. I think you've gone a little too far, but otherwise I suggest that we listen to our colleagues together. I warn everyone in this room to make an effort and listen to Mrs Jeraj's discussion, which should focus on the law. Everything else outside the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u75	Good. I'm almost done. The International Monetary Fund has supported comprehensive and ambitious structural reforms, including pension reform, fiscal rules, and a bad bank. Be constructive there too and support such solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Replica, I see there are three or two replicas. You've got procedural. Well, first of all, procedurally, then there'll be two replicas.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u77	Thank you, Your Honor. Today, we have witnessed for the first time in this National Assembly that we have really stepped together, that we have shown and wanted to prove to people that politicians can agree that we can talk, that we can't point our finger at each other, that we haven't done what we haven't done, that we haven't done anything wrong, and that I suggest that we continue in this National Assembly by showing people that we want to work together, that we want to listen to each other, and that we want to make good laws, not that we want to do as our colleague Jeraev did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u78	Mr Kavtičnik, your procedural proposal is that we continue together as uniformly as possible. You've abused a few of these procedural proposals. We're moving on. The replica has Mr. Happy Meh, then Mrs. Masha Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u79	I was talking about retirement. I have talked about this, and Mr Minister has also talked about it, that there is a possibility that workers and workers can work more time and that is why they also get a higher pension. But it seems to me that the debate about teachers and teachers, teachers and educators is that it is necessary to go to peace, so that someone young can get a job, and at the same time what Mr Minister said is inappropriate today. We know that we have accepted that minimum that we need in order for the pension fund to be sustainable, so it is our call that we all agree together on what we have agreed on today or in the past months and that we respect social dialogue and what we are talking about today. However, we are talking about the pension reform in 2012, which could have been in force for two years, similar to, worse, but would have been in force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mrs. Masha Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u81	I, too, regret the fact that Parliamentary Jeraj has so sharpened, a very constructive debate where most Members have debated for the benefit of this law, praised the constructive solutions that have been obtained in the dialogue. But I was also somehow misunderstood on her part. It is obvious that if the opposition agrees with certain solutions, it must also deal with others or with everyone as it has been heard. I would like to point out that I see the role of the opposition in particular in the sense that it supports good solutions that it thinks are good for the country, but not all government solutions, in particular those that it thinks are harmful to destroy the public sector, which is of value to our parliamentary group, that they are populist – when in the number of children in kindergartens or kindergartens we are not talking about what the increase in the group means for the upbringing and development of these children, but about the burden of a teacher who has a thousand 500 euros in salary, as the Member State has said. In this sense, I see that there has been a misunderstanding that I wanted to explain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I don't think anyone else wanted a replica. So we continue the debate. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor, Mr Jože Tanko has the floor and then Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u83	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister, nice greetings to the Members and Members of Parliament! I would like to start with this: I am from a group of coalition members, and I think that all members of the coalition share the view that we want to bring the debate on this law together and in line with the slogan "come together" and I believe that this was a misunderstanding. The law on the pension and disability insurance of PIZ-2, I will support it. I'll back him up for a number of reasons. I believe that this law must be adopted as a matter of urgency. Adopted in order to ensure that pensions are discontinued, it financially stabilises the pension fund and ensures the long-term sustainability of the pension fund. The law is also good because it ensures the early inclusion of young people in employment. And this stimulus given by the law to all those who are employed is called on employers to acknowledge that every employee under 26 years of age is partially exempt from the payment of contributions, i.e. for the first year 50%, and for the second year of employment 30% – I believe that this stimulus is very good and will help employers to start hiring more young people. That this marriage is good for the pensioners, I've already told you. It stops the fall of pensions, ensures long-term sustainability of the pension fund and the smooth payment of pensions. I would like to say something else about the burden that women bear under this law because more of my acquaintances and other women have turned to me with the question of why such an approach is in this law. It must be said that women live longer and that this law somehow equates us with men. The fact that we have a greater burden in the family, that we are more employed than men, as some believe, cannot simply be mixed into this law. It is true that under this law, I also support the amendment to Article 37, the working time and the percentage of pensions will be harmonised from 2013 to 2022, so that men with 64.25 and women with an equal percentage will change in 2017. Women will then receive only 63.5% and between 2020 and 2022, this is written in this amendment, women will receive 61.5% of the pension base and men will receive 64. This is because women live on average after the current demographic movements for 7 years longer than men. Then I would like, or would like to commend, all the victims who have coordinated this law, namely all the social partners, that they have persisted in coordination and that in the end this coordinated proposal, which we are considering today at third reading, has come to light. I would like to commend the unions, the students, the pensioners, the Alliance of Retirement Associations of Slovenia, and our Minister, Mr Visiak, who has had so much patience to bring the matter to an end. However, I would also like to commend the opposition, which has participated constructively, and this law supports it, as I believe it is also supported because it is harmonised to this extent. However, I would like to tell Mr Jakic that his opinion, when he said that this was an ear to the opposition, is the right position for the opposition, probably true. Let's step up together and support this marriage, and I will support it, and I will support DeSUS, as our Jana Jenko has said before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor, Mr Franc Jurša is preparing to proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u85	Thank you so much for saying a nice hello to everyone. In view of today's debate and the whole process of adopting pension reform, we have demonstrated that in reform laws we are able to overcome the division into position and opposition. For the benefit of all citizens and citizens, I can only wish for such cooperation in the future in the adoption of all the reform laws that await us in the future. We must be aware that the only way out of the crisis is if we are united and if we step together. This is what we owe to all citizens and citizens, which we promised them a year ago, which is why we were elected, and I urge you not to forget about this in the future. So compatibility, cooperation, listening; this will bring us forward from the crisis.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the word, prepare the mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš or next is Mrs Romana Tomc. Mrs Žgajner Tavš gave up the additional debate in this part.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u87	Vice President, thank you so much for saying that. Colleagues and colleagues! I've listened closely to the discussions you've had lately in the National Assembly. I am pleased with the way of debate, but it still gives me the idea that I am analysing the reasons for such a debate. The conclusion can be very quick, and it actually dictates this matter. We should have discussed it this way before, and we didn't want to, or we didn't know. At the outset, I must say that, personally, as well as our parliamentary group, this is what our representative said when she represented the position, the reformed pension law or the reform. However, I have to touch on some past period when the parliamentary group I belong to did not support this law. I will not talk about the reasons why it did not happen, but I would like to say that this law, which was drawn up by the current set-up led by the minister, is somehow more reform for the short term, with a possible slightly milder impact on individuals. But it is true that we needed or needed this pension reform. I have advocated the gradual adoption of pension reform, as some of us can say today what the situation will be in the coming years, for example in five, six or seven years. This approach, which I have already mentioned, has been correct and has somehow received support within our Group of Members. In preparing the pension reform, we followed in our parliamentary group in particular what was written down and signed in the coalition agreement. It has been very important for us to inform all pensioners that they have made a sufficient contribution in the past four years to the balance of public finances and that now the moment has come when we really need to ensure that we coordinate our pensions. This time we decided to coordinate pensions at the level of wage growth in the next period, as pensions are miserablely low. If we do not stop this trend, it means that we will fall and we will be able to reach 50% of the average wage in a short time. In the past, the start was about 80%, a bad decade or less ago. During the debate on the pension law, we have also closely monitored how Kad will provide €50 million for the coordination of pensions. The problem we face is how this will be written down and what law these matters will be written in. We have now reached the point where we have found that Kad will also provide 120 million for the pension fund in the following year 2013 and 2014. We agree with this in our parliamentary group, but at the same time we have a request to the drafter of the law on the implementation of the budget to record within it that these funds will return to Kad in the future within two years of the sale of state property. If such a dictatorship is not recorded within the law, it will be very difficult to support this matter within our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, if I understand correctly you want a word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Although I was hoping that I would stop by today, at least not at this point, because I had estimated that the introductory presentations had indeed been given correctly, that they were following the objective that we had witnessed, whether we were all pursuing it in the context of the reform of this law on the particular working body and that there was indeed a major work going on there. What we are looking at today is just debates, I will say that certain debates are even unnecessary – unnecessary, throwing pollen under the feet at such an important point, which is not least coordinated with the social partners and in which the Minister has listened to and responded to many opposition proposals. Well-intentioned because they've improved the law. In this part, as the conclusion of my performance, even though I was initially more positive or expected to adopt a pension reform without unnecessary expectations to each other, unfortunately, the debate has shown that we cannot go through all of this, which grieves me. Anyway, I'm gonna say again what I said in the introductions. Why am I absolutely going to support the bill before us today with all the amendments tabled by the coalition, including through further coordination with the public and trade unions? The law pursues that key objective, which I follow for myself; this is respect for intergenerational solidarity. This is an important fact and, on the other hand, in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia in the debate itself, in the first reading, we have made it very clear that we will support the law if: first, we comply with the social partners and secondly, if our requirement to delete article 403 from the law is taken into account, and this is the article that is in some way, I will use the term "clear" of certain categories of pensioners from the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Because this has been achieved – and I will say here that we have also succeeded in Positive Slovenia with certain amendments, which is, last but not least, visible in this third reading review. The same content of our amendment is summarized. These are absolute reasons why I will also support the law in the voting below.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The text is given by the proposer, the government, Mr Minister Mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this general debate, Members and Members, I thank you very much for your support for this proposal, including for the compliments of my team and to me personally. In the end, one would even think, given that we have done a lot of coordination and also accepted a lot of compromises, that we have been diluting the effects and that there is nothing together. Look, my way of working is to pursue those strategic goals that we set for ourselves in the project and to listen to where there are reasonable proposals and do not significantly affect the achievement of these strategic objectives. And what were the strategic goals? The strategic objectives of this pension reform were: for the first time, to stabilise the financial position of the pension fund or at least an important step towards it. This graph shows the difference in the mass of pensions under the proposed law and if the ZPIZ-1 continued to apply. You can see that already in 2013 the impact is over 100 million euros, that the positive effect in 2014 is 147 million euros and so on. It grows, then it falls a little bit and then it grows steeply up. A few concrete calculations from this. Here in the National Assembly and otherwise we talked a lot about investing in the block of 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica. This is the farthest investment in the country. With this pension reform, after calculating the Institute of Economic Research, we will save this money in the pension register for the next six years. In six years, it is only with savings after this pension reform that we can invest in the bloc of €6 billion and €300 million. This is shown by the research or data of the Institute, which is based on a microsimulation model, which was designed for these needs before Svetlik's pension reform. So in the next five years, we save a billion euros or six, as I said, a billion 300, another billion in the next three years and so on. The financial impact on the stabilisation of the pension register is strong, but not at the expense of the amount of pensions, but only at the expense of the new pension conditions, which are acceptable to the perception of the average Slovenian citizen – that for full retirement years it is necessary to work about 40 years and that those who have begun working early can also retire early to be rewarded if they work for another month longer. I thank all that we have finally been able to overcome this society and implement the solution to equalise the pension conditions for men and women after certain transitional periods. This seems to me to be an extremely important achievement and an important step in the right direction. The most important thing that we are implementing with this pension reform is simply saying that we will have more decent pensions if we work a little longer. Here, according to the calculations of this same institute, the following achievement has also been achieved by 2020: the average retirement age for women will increase by about two and a half years and for men a bad year. This is an important effect of this pension reform. I really don't know, and probably no one in this room, and even wider, whether it'll be enough in 10 years, or whether we'll be able to achieve a better relationship between pensioners and workers at that time by means of a start-up in the economy, or whether we'll be reducing this life span in some way by then, because I don't think this extension is going to go on forever. Somewhere it's going to stop slowly, we're probably not going to live 30 years longer in 100 years, because 100 years ago we lived 30 years less. That's how it is, statistics show it and I don't believe it's going linearly forward and it's probably starting to stop somewhere. And that we will be doing models of pension reform there by 2060 or up to 2100 – this task will be postponed for perhaps 10 years or 15 years. However, we have taken an important step, which I mentioned earlier, and it is true that this important step has been taken in a relatively high consensus, a virtually absolute consensus of policy, parliamentary policy, of all parliamentary political parties. Today, I have not observed a single debater who would not have announced support for this law. I must also say that the great consensus of the social partners is not absolute, today it is virtually impossible to achieve this in such a divisive trade union movement in Slovenia. Remember the Public Finance Balance Act, where we reached an agreement, in fact, with all the unions, and in the end, one union filed a case and we had almost a referendum. Thank you very much once again, and this is also a good journey for citizens and citizens who are accompanying us, so that we will not make anti-reforms this month until the reform takes effect. Once again, I stress that all those who meet the conditions for retirement this year will be able to retire under these same conditions whenever they want to in the future, for which the new law does not tighten or change when we talk about retirement conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. The amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups has been tabled in Article 16. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and this amendment. Who wants to discuss Article 16? No desire to discuss it. We are moving on to the next amendment, as well as the coalition groups to Article 18. Anybody want to talk? I don't see any desire to discuss it. We are moving on to the next amendment, to Article 37, including the coalition groups. No desire to discuss it. We move on to the next amendment to Article 113. Does anyone want to discuss it? I don't see a desire for further explanation. We are moving on to the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 140. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. We are moving on to the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 146. No desire to discuss it. We are moving on to the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 148. There's no desire to discuss it. We are moving on to the next amendment of the coalition groups to Article 154. There's no desire to discuss it. We are moving on to the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 202. There is also no need for further discussion. Amendment to the 204th Article of the Coalition Group. There's no desire to discuss it. Amendment to Article 390 of the Coalition Group. It's not a wish either. We are moving on to Article 398, the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups. It's not a wish either. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 403, the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups. It's not a wish either. The amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups to Article 407 have been tabled. Not at all. Amendment of coalition parliamentary groups to Article 408. Not exactly. The following amendment to Article 410 also includes coalition groups. There's no desire to discuss it. We are moving on to the next article, the amendment to the 412th article of the coalition groups. Not exactly. The following amendment of the coalition groups to Article 413. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. We are moving on to Article 428 and the amendment tabled by the coalition groups. I also do not see the need for an additional debate. Amendment to Article 429 of the Coalition Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing no one wants to discuss it. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups to Article 16. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 62 Members and Members present, 61 votes in favour and none against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment to Article 16 has been adopted. We turn to the vote on the next amendment of the coalition groups to Article 18. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] This amendment has also been adopted. We turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 37. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 7. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] The amendment was accepted. We continue to vote on the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 113. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] So the amendment was accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to the 140th article of the coalition parliamentary groups. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] Amendment accepted. We are moving to a vote on Article 146 and the amendment to this Article. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] So the amendment was accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups to Article 148. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We move to a vote on Article 154 of the amendment tabled by the coalition groups. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We move to a vote on the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 202. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to the vote on the amendment to the 204th section of the coalition parliamentary groups. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We move to a vote on Article 390 or the amendment tabled to this article of the coalition groups. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We move to a vote on the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 398. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving to a vote, and the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups has been tabled to Article 403. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 407. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 1. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. We turn to the vote on the proposed amendment of the coalition groups to Article 408. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 68 votes against 6. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against six.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving to a vote on Article 410, where the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups has been tabled. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We move to a vote on the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 412. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We turn to the vote on the amendment tabled by the coalition groups to Article 413. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to a vote on the proposed amendment of the coalition groups to Article 428. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the vote on the last amendment tabled, namely to the 429th article of the coalition parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted in the second or third reading would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law on pension and invalidity voting as a whole. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I note that the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the so-called new pension reform, has been adopted. Congratulations to all Members and Members, of course also to the Minister and the Ministry! I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Bill on Billing Total Bank Tax, a summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I respectfully ask my fellow Member and fellow Members to calm down, or I will be forced to suspend the meeting. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Aleš Zivkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u93	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and honourable Members! Let me briefly present the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tax Act on Balanced Banks. Amendments to the law contain solutions that form part of the 2013 and 2014 budget measures. The draft law provides for a tightening of the current measure to remedy the consequences of the financial and economic crisis introduced by the Balance Sheet Tax Act. On the basis of the assessment of the situation, it can be concluded that only a small part of the banks or that only banks with a lower balance sheet have increased the share of loans given to non-financial corporations and independent entrepreneurs. The amount of loans granted to all banks has not increased, but has even decreased. Thus, we are still witnessing a smaller guarantee of financing for the real sector than it was before the economic crisis. As a result of this, the draft law sets out the solutions as follows: the proposal of the law limits the calculation and payment of the balance sheet tax until including 2014; the balance sheet tax may be reduced due to the relief or benefit in the form of a reduction of the tax, which means that the taxpayer may reduce the tax liability to 0%; the proposal reduces the percentage of credits that the debtor may impose on him; the proposal also introduces a tax adjustment and establishes a special deposit payment regime for 2013. With regard to the financial implications, it should be said that, on the basis of the figures in the 2011 balance sheet tax accounts, we estimate that the additional financial effects on the revenue from the tax on the balance sheet total of banks will be around EUR 14 million per year. Due to the introduction of tax withdrawals, the additional effects on government budget revenues will be measured on the cash flow in 2013 at EUR 10.7 million and an additional EUR 12.2 million in 2014. In 2015, the revenue generated by this tax was expected to decrease by EUR 28.6 million due to the termination of the tax. In view of the above, I propose that the law, respected Members and Members of Parliament, be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report to the Committee, I give the floor to the member of the Magi. Damjani Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u95	All present, thank you very much for your word! I welcome the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and all my fellow Members and Members. At its 39th urgent meeting, on 1 December, the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Balance Sheet Tax Law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 29th meeting, on 19 October, that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and in terms of technical and legislative aspects. In its opinion, the Service made specific comments on Articles 1, 3 and 5 of the draft law. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which does not support the bill, as the currently smaller financing of the non-bank sector than before proves that the adoption of this law would not produce positive results and is therefore unnecessary. In accordance with Article 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to Articles 3 and 5 of the Law have been tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legal Service attended the Committee's meetings, Dr Janez Šušterič presented the introductory supplement and explained that they wanted to provide additional revenue to the budget for the next two years by means of a draft law and would abolish this tax after a period of two years. The amendment reduces certain reliefs or percentages of reliefs by providing an additional €14 million per year in the budget. The system of depositing this tax is also being introduced, so that these revenues will not be received under the current system of taxation in the budget until 2014. In addition, this tax would burden the sector, which, in the general opinion, has so far made little contribution to the budget. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that they had given a written opinion on the draft law and their comments had been taken into account by amendments. They have no comment on the amendments. Opposition to the bill was expressed in the debate by opposition parliamentary groups, as there will be no positive consequences. In their view, the purpose of the law is good, but both operational implementation and the effect of the law are questionable. They believe that the purchase of this tax is low, and in addition, despite the introduction of the tax, the banks have reduced the volume of lending. They therefore feel that the law must be frozen. In the event that economic growth forecasts are positive in 2014, consideration should be given to the introduction of this tax. They also expressed concerns that the adoption of the novel in order to introduce a provision on tax intensification requires changes in the tax authority's information system, resulting in financial consequences for it. Coalition parliamentary groups expressed support for the introduction of this proposed law. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 3 and 5 of the draft law. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u96	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Citizens, mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u97	Thank you for your word and a nice hello again. The original tax law on the balance sheet total of banks has two purposes. The first objective is to accelerate the lending of the economy and the second is to proportionately distribute the costs of the current crisis and its resolution, including to the banking system in the form of higher taxation. The amendments and additions to this law are primarily aimed at this second purpose, and this is to divide the costs of the crisis into a banking system. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is, by means of various measures, including tax policy measures, seeking to balance the budget and ensure financial sustainability. This does not mean that banks are necessarily affected by this tax, since, when re-crediting the economy, they can reduce the tax on balance sheet totals due to the relief or benefit in the form of a reduction in the tax due to the increased volume of lending, which means that they can even reduce this obligation to nothing. With this change, we change the logic of this law. This law was introduced with some expectation that it would encourage lending. In practice, it has not proved to have such an effect. From this point of view, he did not play an appropriate steering role, but he has a fiscal role in bringing some of this money into the budget. The proposal for amendments to the Balance Sheet Tax Law has no major lasting negative effects on banks and the economy, and we therefore support it in the National Gazette. These changes, especially due to planned temporaryity, can be seen as an urgent evil, although we must be aware at the same time that banks will be less interesting to investors when state shares in banks are sold due to a higher tax burden. This may become very problematic in the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system and the planned withdrawal of the country from the ownership of banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u99	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Well-known, distinguished Members and Members of Parliament! In Slovenia we have de facto problems with bad loans. Bank balances are weak due to weaknesses resulting from defaults and unrealistic valuations. The key question is whether at this point it is wise for a country that threatens to force a bank into even greater risk exposure. Do we even understand how anomalous banking space we have and how such a simplified measure cannot have a positive effect in these circumstances? Today, many banks are disinvested and even deliberately reducing their balance sheet and credit activity, while good bankers will not change their risk assessment on the basis of an administrative measure such as this balance sheet tax. Your Honor! I just read an excerpt from the Slovenian People's Party's position in July 2011, when the then Social Democrats-led coalition introduced this tax with an argument to accelerate the lending of the economy. Well, we now also have the data and results of this measure, and we know that this law has not increased the credit activity in the economy. It is true that they know something similar to this tax in some other European countries. However, the approaches to calculating this specific duty are systematically adjusted according to the size of the institution, the amount of profits, the State aid received, the exposure of financial instruments and many other factors. Some such burdens in these countries were solely intended for banks to repay some of the funding received through State intervention in the form of this tax. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we did not support this tax as some seemingly instigator of lending and we do not support it on the basis of this argument. This thinking and conviction also resulted in our proposal, which was later summarised by the coalition, that we compromise this law in some way into a crisis tax and limit its validity to just the next two years. So, let's say bob beans. From banks operating in the field of Slovenia, the budget promises some money, because we are probably ahead of two of the most difficult budget years in the history of this country. This law also partially helps banks to cooperate and contribute to the consolidation of public finances in the coming years. It is likely that the whole tax will not be passed on to users of their services, so that this tax will be redistributed between banks and end-users of banking services. As already said by the competent minister, there is likely to be some change at European Union level over the coming years, at least as regards the taxation of financial transactions, perhaps something else. As we know, a good week ago, we also adopted a tax on financial services. Therefore, the tax on the balance sheet total of banks is certainly not necessary in the long term, and for the time being, let's say, temporary against the crisis bank tax. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the amendment of the Tax Law on Balanced Banks with the realization that the times of financial consolidation are difficult. With 2015, when we strongly hope that things will start to improve, we are abolishing this tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs. Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u101	Thank you for your word and a nice hello again! The Democratic Party of Pensioners' Group in its previous composition, i.e. in its previous mandate, did not support this law when the basic law on the balance sheet tax was adopted. The law is intended to establish a mechanism to ease the current credit crunch and help banks decide on more appropriate lending of the non-financial sector. In fact, banks have drastically reduced bank loans and have practically prevented the lending of economic operators. This week, the DeSUS Group expressed its fear that the proposal to introduce a new tax which reduces the potential of banks, their capital adequacy or indirectly imposes an additional burden on the users of banking services. At the time of the adoption of the law, its financial impact was expected to amount to around EUR 11 million. Today we have a calculation – only 7.5 million euros has been passed on. On this basis, we wonder whether the introduction of this tax has stimulated banks to increase the lending of economic operators. I think that the government should take other, more stimulating forms of action, as the applicant himself points out that it is only a small part of the banks or that only banks with a lower balance sheet total have increased the share of loans given to non-financial corporations and independent entrepreneurs. The amount of loans granted to all banks has thus not increased, but has even decreased. Nevertheless, it is the fact that we have this tax. Since the effects of this tax are such as are already expressed in figures and presented, certain corrections should be introduced, namely the reduction of certain allowances or percentages of allowances, and this would result in around EUR 14 million to the budget. It is a matter of introducing a system of depositing, and it is also a matter of determining the period of validity of this crisis tax, if we can say so, for a period of two years, until 2015. As has already been said, the basic law has proved unsuccessful. At this point, it has only a financial or fiscal role, that is to say, to fill our budget. We are all aware of the budgetary situation of the Republic of Slovenia, thus increasing the large increase in the cash budget. This is what the Slovenian proverb says: a grain on a grain of cake, a stone on a stone palace. In view of this, it is only for this reason that Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u102	Thank you very much. New Slovenia Embassy Group, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Balance Sheet Tax Act is only valid for one good year. It was adopted within the mandate of the previous government as a measure designed primarily to stimulate banks to provide greater and more appropriate lending to the non-financial sector. That law introduced a balance sheet tax at a rate of 0,1 % of the balance sheet total. At that time, it was expected that the non-financial sector would have easier access to the financial resources needed for economic growth and development through this measure. The law was not restricted only by the former opposition Members, but also by the European Central Bank, which was asked to make an assessment. In its opinion of 6 April 2011, it drew attention to the risk of financial stability if banks were to lend loans due to potential bank benefits. The European Central Bank has written down, quote: "The approval of credits should be based primarily on a sound prudential and safe business system and full compliance with the creditworthiness requirements of borrowers. Such an approach would help to properly share loans in the economy, which would protect the balance sheet of banks from possible losses in the future. In the long term, this would also contribute to ensuring sustainable financial stability." End of quote. The purpose of the law has not been achieved. Only a small share of banks, namely banks with a lower balance sheet total, increased the share of loans given to non-financial corporations and independent entrepreneurs. In large banks, however, the amount did not increase but even decreased. All of these findings point to the need to amend this law, so the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared a proposal for amendments and a supplement to that law that we are considering today. The key news is that, as from 1 January 2015, the tax on the balance sheet total of banks is abolished altogether. However, for the period until the end of 2014, that tax shall be maintained, but only as a measure to remedy the consequences of the financial and economic crisis, for which time the assessment and collection of that tax shall be corrected. The balance sheet tax is one of the sources of budgetary revenue during efforts to balance the budget and ensure financial sustainability. In the view of New Slovenia, the financial or banking system is also obliged to contribute its share to the resolution of the crisis. It does not seem fair to us that only those who may have contributed to the crisis, including in the public sector, employees and pensioners, would be burdened with measures to reduce the public deficit. Let me also mention that the adoption of this amendment fulfils the prescribed or signed commitment under the Coalition Treaty to abolish this tax on the balance sheet amount of banks from 2015. For all these reasons, Members of the New Slovenia Group will support the amendment of the Tax Law on Balanced Total Banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Aloji Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u105	Your Honor! Before us, changes to the law, which was already in place, as some have mentioned today, raised doubts a year and a half ago. Doubts that have proved to be justified. Today, on the one hand, the proposed Government with coalition and budgetary hunger, on the other hand, is interested in the professional public to mention Banka Slovenije, the Association of Banks of Slovenia, as well as the already mentioned European Central Bank and the opposition they are inviting into the debate, saying: lose hope of who enters. In our opinion, the government is embarrassed. The balance sheet law is supposed to be aimed at banks lending more to the economy in order to avoid paying tax. We do not deny that a good purpose is possible, but operational implementation and impact are very questionable. The profit from this tax was very severe and the banks have nevertheless reduced the volume of lending. In this regard, with the extent of lending, the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, on 6 November 2012, notes that business demand for bank loans decreased by 27 % last year. However, the demand for investment loans has decreased most strongly, which is particularly alarming. On the other hand, the demand for the restructuring of loans and the extension of deadlines has increased by companies. The structure of capital in companies remains highly unbalanced to the detriment of equity financing – both the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Under such circumstances, it is unrealistic to expect banks to lend businesses solely or separately because they are threatened with being penalised for paying the tax. What we want to say in Positive Slovenia in this regard is that the starting point for this law is absolutely unsustainable, and this has probably also been the case with the coalition, which, in the Coalition Treaty on the Tax System, has written in the chapter on the tax system, I quote: "The tax on the balance sheet sum is abolished because it does not stimulate anything but the payment of the tax on the funds that banks receive from the State." It's a bob, which, by the way, at least for state banks, it does. However, this unequivocal position did not deter the proposer and the coalition from further strengthening the tax obligation by reducing tax relief after the new one. In other words, under unaltered conditions, the obligation may be somewhat greater than under the old law. In short, the bill, because we can easily find damage and weaknesses, and the benefits and advantages remain hidden, we oppose in Positive Slovenia. So against the temporary anti-crisis tax, we are here to discuss the Banking Act. That's the real topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u107	Nicely greeted once again in my name! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we believe that the benefits and benefits of the proposed novel will be visible in the next two years, when a wide range of changes will be made in the area of banking. On 26 July 2011, the Balance Sheet Tax Act, applicable from 1 August 2011, entered into force. The tax was paid by 16 banks between 1 August 2011 and 31 December 2011, totalling EUR 7.4 million. After the proposed amendment, the tax is paid at a lower rate of 0,1 % of the balance sheet amount. This is the value of the assets in the statement of financial position. The tax may be reduced due to a tax relief or benefit in the form of a tax reduction, which means that the taxable person may reduce the tax liability to 0 tax bases. There is also the possibility of exemption from tax. The exemption may be imposed by debtors where the state of credit granted to non-financial corporations and independent entrepreneurs in the calendar year for which the tax is paid is higher than that of those loans in the previous calendar year, at least 5 % of the balance sheet amount of the previous calendar year. In 2011, this condition was relatively lower and stood at 2.1 %. The debtors may apply an exemption even if their credit status is less than 20 % on the last day of the month of application of this Act in the balance sheet. This tax is thus exempt from, for example, SID Bank. The proposal provides for a proportionate burden on banks according to the size of the assets. It tightens the existing legislation for a limited period until 31 December 2014 and repeals it with effect from 2015. This amendment reduces the percentage of credits for which a taxable person may impose a tax reduction. The proposal for a law abolishes the exemption for debtors where the state of credit granted to non-financial corporations and independent entrepreneurs in the calendar year for which the tax is paid is higher than the state of those loans in the calendar year by at least 5 % of the balance sheet amount of the previous calendar year. The draft law introduces tax withdrawals and provides for a special payment regime for the 2013 instalments, which will provide for current budgetary revenues. The current public financial situation requires certain measures on the revenue side of the budget, and we therefore support the proposal, the proposal as a crisis tax, to reduce the budget deficit by 14 million per year, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u109	Respected and respected! Social Democrats learn from their own mistakes. Our government has proposed a bill on the taxation of the balance sheet sum of banks, not to strengthen public finances with an additional tax source, but because we have seen a solution in this to start lending the economy. One and a half years after the adoption of this law, we can find that our expectations have not come true – even more so, the extent of the credit activity of Slovenian business banks has only fallen after the adoption of this law. It would therefore be appropriate today to conclude that taxation of the balance sheet amount of banks is not a suitable measure to deal with and face the credit crunch problem. We need to focus on the causes of this same credit crunch, which is the over-indebtedness of our economy. Our economy's over-indebtedness occurred during a specific period between 2004 and 2008, when neither the government nor the regulator, the truth of the love nor the National Assembly, responded to an alarming increase in the given loans and an absolutely damaged relationship between the deposits received and the loans given. At that time, what we now know as bad investments was produced. We believe that the Tax Law on Balanced Banks does not respond today to a fundamental challenge, this is an increase in bank credit activity. Its publicly owned proceeds are negligible, the extent of the reliefs, it is said that the essential part is that banks avoid paying taxes if they start lending activity to their borrowers, i.e. the economy, is reduced by the fact that it will eventually be seized on the part of substantially better banks. This measure will not trigger the credit activity of our banks because we have to address the causes. The government has decided that these causes will be eliminated by a bad bank, we have already made it clear repeatedly and loudly that this is not the optimal way, but the most expensive way to solve this problem, which is still technically complex, administratively demanding and will take a long time, opening up a range of opportunities for a wide variety of abuses and moral gambling. We advise that we do not serve failures, even if they are basically proposed by our government. To take a critical look at what measures they abstain from and what measures they do not take, and for this measure we find that it does not serve its purpose because of it we will not increase the credit activity, nor will we allow a significantly larger public funding coverage. If you say that banks and financial institutions are also the ones that have to bear the burden of the crisis, please let us all be more determined together to introduce a financial transaction tax at European level. Moreover, if we believe that capital must also pay its price, let us increase the profit tax, not lower it at the time, thinking that this will save the Slovenian economy. He's not saving him in anything. We will therefore oppose the adoption of the bill by the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u110	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the time frame of the meeting of the National Assembly in the framework of the vote on Thursday, 6 December 2012, fifteen minutes after the end of the 8th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're going to 4, 5, 6. AND 7. It's a day's work. Following an agreement at the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly, we will, within the framework of paragraphs 4, 5, 6 and 7, carry out joint introductory presentations on the Proposal for a Decision on the Roadmap to the Real Estate of the State for State Administration and the Justice Authority for 2013, the Proposal for a Decision on the Roadmap to the Real Estate of the State for Other State Administrations and the Justice Authority for the Year 2014, the Proposal for a Decision on the Equalisation of the Real Estate of the State for Other State Authorities for the Year 2013 and the Proposal for a Decision on the Equalisation of Real Estate. Proposals for decrees have been tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the motions of the decrees. A government representative present. Mr Helmut Hartman, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have four proposals for decisions on how to deal with the real property of the country. The obligation to prepare, content and process the treatment of the State's real property is governed by the Real Estate Act and the Self-Governmental Local Community. These plans are divided into real estate management plans and asset management plans. As regards the management plans for immovable property, this consists of two parts, namely the acquisition part and the other part relating to the disposal. However, as regards the plan for the management of movable property, it consists of a plan for the acquisition of movable property at a value greater than EUR 10 000 and a plan for the availability of movable property of the same value. With regard to the controller, the law provides that they are public administrations, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds and other state bodies independent of the executive branch. These are mainly the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Constitutional Court and others. The content of the plans laid down by the Real Estate Regulation and the Self-Governmental Local Community is the same regardless of the operator and the reception procedures are slightly different. In any event, the proposal to purchase or sell a particular real property shall be made by its operator, who is the only one who knows the needs and knows where the property is needed or does not need it. As regards the authorities of the state administration, the judiciary, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds, the proposals of the administrators shall be collected by the Government and submitted after consideration to the National Assembly. They will then be adopted together with the draft budget for the following year. The inclusion of real property in the relevant plan is a condition for the purchase or sale of certain assets in the current year, but this condition is not absolute. Here, let me say that the law in Article 12 allows that, under certain conditions, these are in particular changes in the spatial needs of the real estate manager and some unforeseen circumstances on the market, operators may conclude administrative transactions that are not foreseen in the current plan. The total value of transactions not provided for in the current business plans shall be determined each year by a government decision, 30 days after the adoption of the budget. Let me also say that this availability is limited to 20% of the total value of the real estate management plans or plans for the management of movable property. So much for the description. In this part, let me briefly say something about the figures themselves on which this disposition of property relates in all four decrees. As regards the Real Estate Action Plan for State Administrations and Justice Authorities 2013 – we are planning €187 million 631 000 in 2013 from real estate sales, and 134 million €380 000 for real property purchases in 2013. In 2014, we are planning €15 million in real estate sales in the same state authorities and €68 million is planned for real property purchases in the same year 2014. Now, with regard to the Real Estate Regulation for Other State Authorities for 2013, which plans €170,000 in income from real estate sales and €513,000 in 2013 for real estate purchases. For 2014 – revenues for the sale of movable property for the envisaged purchases of some EUR 603,000 are planned for these same authorities, but no revenue is expected for this year. So much for starting a presentation, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u112	Thank you very much. The motions for resolutions were addressed by the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. I give the floor to Madam President Eva Irgle to present the Committee's reports.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u113	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Hello, Mr. Secretary of State! At its 7th meeting, on 28 November 2012, the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government addressed the Proposal for a Decision on the State's real estate management plan for State administrations and judicial authorities for 2013 and for 2014. We also discussed the proposal for a decree on the real estate management plan for other state authorities for 2013 and for 2014. Proposals for decrees were submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government on the basis of Articles 11 and 13 of the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities and published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 11 and 12 October 2012. The representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Helmut Hartman, explained in a supplementary explanation of the Proposals for Decisions on the State's real estate management plan for the authorities of the State Administration and the judiciary for 2013 and 2014 that the preparation of the real property management plan takes place in such a way that the Government collects proposals for the management of the immovable and movable property of the individual managers of the property and then submits them in the form of a decree to the National Assembly. On the basis of proposals from real estate managers, revenues from the sale of real property in 2013 are estimated to be around EUR 187 million, and some EUR 134 million is expected to be needed for the purchase of real property. In 2014, revenues from real estate sales were expected to amount to some more than €15 million and around €68 million was expected to be needed for real property purchases. In a supplementary explanation of the Proposals for Decrees on the State's real estate management plan for other State authorities for 2013 and 2014, the Secretary of State said that the State's real property management plan for other State authorities would be sent to the Government for adoption by the National Assembly. The proposed decision concerns the National Assembly and the Constitutional Court. Other public authorities are planning €170,000 of real estate income in 2013 and are planning €513 000 for real property purchases. In 2014, other government authorities are not planning real estate revenues and are planning expenditure of EUR 603 000 for real property purchases. Representative of the Legal and Legal Service, mag. The method of Hrvat Pirnat presented an additional written opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service and stated that their comments to the titles of the proposed decisions were duly taken into account in the proposed amendments of the coalition groups. This is an amendment to Article 1 and to the title of individual decrees. It also made comments on individual tables which form an integral part of individual decisions. The draft resolutions were also accompanied by written opinions by the Commission of the State Council for State Regulation. The Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Administration adopted the amendment of the SDS, National Gazette, SLS, DeSUS and New Slovenia to Article 1 and to Article 128, in conjunction with Article 125, third and fourth paragraphs, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on both articles and the title of the motion for a decree and adopted them at the end. In the light of the amendments adopted, the texts of the completed proposals of all four of the provisions included in the amendments have been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The table set out in Article 1 of the individual decree is also an integral part of the supplementary proposals for resolutions, which are contained in the texts submitted, which are also published on the website of the National Assembly, in the Report of 11 and 12 November 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u114	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The real property owned by the Republic of Slovenia and the municipalities as the basic self-government local communities is very extensive by the number of properties, as well as the value. As a result, the State must have as much rational, transparent and as good an economy as possible in accordance with the principle of economics, and it must, above all, follow the public interest. Special care should be given to the handling of real estate, in particular sales and rentals. The Real Property Act of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities and the Real Estate Regulation of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities constitute the legal basis for the preparation of the annual decisions on the real estate management plan. Proposals for decisions on real estate management plans for public administrations, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies, public funds and other public authorities for 2013 and 2014 constitute a comprehensive overview of the assets intended for sale and lease, as well as planned purchases and leases. The decrees show the plans of state authorities and public administrations – which will be given priority over the next two years. This does not mean that individual purchases or investments will also occur. The implementation of these plans depends on the budget available over the year. In listing the assets for the next two years, the operators of state and municipal property had to determine the economy of each planned deployment separately. Some assets, in particular real estate, are not necessary for the work of public administration and self-government authorities and cannot be managed rationally. Moreover, it is often not possible to provide adequate funds for their regular maintenance, which is often the case for property that has the status of a cultural monument. For such real estates, not only is the listing of the planned disposition justified but it is necessary to prevent their deterioration. In Novi Slovenija we advocate responsible and transparent treatment of property of the country and local communities. Transparency shall be ensured by the decisions considered, where the table indicates the planned real estate holdings for the next two years, indicating the intended means of disposal of the property and indicating the indicative value of the individual real estate or movable property. We are also committed to ensuring that each individual asset manager assumes responsibility both for the listing of individual assets and for the determination of the means of disposal, especially in the case of sales, as well as for the determination of the indicative value of individual real estate or movable property. At the same time, we are also counting on effective control of individual resources exercised by the Court of Auditors. Therefore, the Members of the New Slovenia Group will support the decisions on the real estate plan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Ivan Pišek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Vice President. Nice hello to you all! The proposed decision on the real estate management plan of the State for the authorities of the State and the judicial authorities shall be adopted on the basis of Article 11, paragraph 2 and 5, of the Real Property Act and on the basis of the Real Estate Regulation of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Community. The law provides that the State's real estate management plan for public administrations, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds set up by the State shall be submitted by the Government for adoption by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The decree has two articles and a number of annexes. Article 1 sets out the scope of all the real estate of the State with which it intends to dispose or acquire it in the year in question. The individual articles are systematically listed by type of property, type of treatment and also by operators of individual assets. The tables shall cover all identification marks and indicative values for each real property. For reasons of scope and technical reasons, the tables are not included in the text but are annexed to the decree. Article 2 provides for the entry into force of the judgment. The content of the Proposal for a Decision on a plan for the management of the State’s real property for other State bodies is similar and shall be adopted pursuant to Article 13, paragraph 4, and 6, of the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities. The decree regulates the actual property management plan for the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the Constitutional Court, the Court of Auditors, the State Audit Commission, the Office of the Information Officer and the Ombudsman. The Decree sets out the extent of the State’s real estate in the management of other State authorities with which they intend to dispose or acquire it during the year in question. An individual movement shall be assigned its indicative value, which the Real Estate Regulation defines as a value determined by the Geodetic Authority on the basis of the rules governing the mass valuation of real estate, on the basis of a comparison of sales of comparable assets on the market or on the basis of other data establishing the price of real property in the light of the greatest possible approximation of the actual value on the market. All real estate management plans were submitted by the Government for adoption by the National Assembly, together with the draft budget for 2013 and 2014. One of the dedicated sources of budget financing is also in the sale of unnecessary assets. In the SDS Group, we believe that it is necessary or less efficient to sell or replace property, especially if it provides a double effect, on the one hand the unloading of non-profitable property, which is usually only a cost, and on the other hand the optimal purchase and its nobility. Of course, the prerequisite for any ownership change is transparency and economy. In the SDS, we support the adoption of all four proposals for resolutions, together with amendments prepared on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u119	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, nice greeting! At the same time, at the time of consideration of the draft budget, a discussion shall also be held on the acts in which the actions of the budgetary users with real property are planned. This time it is no different or otherwise that the proposed decrees are again prepared in accordance with the Real Estate Act of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities, since the Law on Public Property Fund was repealed by the National Assembly in 2010. In October of this year, the Government forwarded to the National Assembly a proposal for a decision on the State's real estate management plan for State administrations and judicial authorities for 2013, 2014 and a proposal for a decision on the State's real estate management plan for other public authorities, also for 2013 and 2014. The Legislative and Legal Service has warned that the title of the acts submitted does not reflect the content of the proposed decisions. On the basis of these warnings, addresses have also been properly corrected on the home working body with the amendments adopted. The proposer in the Decree on the State's real estate management plan for the public administration and judicial authorities for 2013 expects the sale of that property to be EUR 187 million 631 000. The purchase of real property, however, amounts to EUR 134 million. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are aware that sales revenue is a difficult target to reach. The planned revenues from the sale of real property in 2013 are much lower at present, amounting to EUR 15 million, 706 000, and 68 million EUR 726 000 is planned for the purchase of real property in 2014. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have reviewed all the decrees, and we would point out table eight; with the manager, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space is said to lack economic justification for land use. This Ministry has become the manager of these land following the withdrawal of the status of public good, public railway infrastructure. However, the estimated total value of these lands is one million 719 thousand euros. A public auction or a direct contract or a public tendering is envisaged. At the same time, I would like to point out that there are lands with an indicative value moving between 29 euros, which is irrelevant, and up to 260 000 euros there. The lack of explanation of economic eligibility was also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service. Given such a large range, we believe that the operator of these lands, at least at a value of more than EUR 10 000, would have to explain this better. Five of us have been stabbed in the purchase of technical equipment for Owl; it is 800 000 euros. Also, the method of obtaining motor vehicles, especially those suitable when the brand of a passenger car has already been mentioned. This has also been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service, namely that the determination of the subject-matter of the contract is not in conformity with the procurement rules. Let me also draw attention to Table two, which lists a land-use plan which has the status of a cultural monument, the reduced title, of course. It is a few castles and let me mention the castle Brannik or the castle Rihenberg, for which there is already agreement with the local community, we have only a solemn signature on the free acquisition of this property, the property. I therefore ask how it is possible that this castle is still in the sales programme, this price should be deducted from the total. There are also some border facilities for which local communities are also running. The most beautiful is a border object at the Solkan border crossing, which has been broken down into shame for several months. The local community would take over this facility, rehabilitate it and prepare an activity in it, such as the contrabant museum, as we once said. Here, however, the state hesitates and prepares to sell this facility, which does not have any great value, except that it is now a disgrace. In addition, there is a villa Rafut or Lašček's villa, an outstanding architectural pearl in the Pink Valley, which is falling apart. A number of contracts were concluded here, with the previous Janša government, but the matter did not work out. In this programme that we have before us, we see quite a few of these, now I am talking about those I know from the ground, because by the cadastral number and the entry into the land book, it is difficult to determine exactly which buildings and which land are involved. Nevertheless, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will not object to the proposed decision, nor to those which I did not specifically point out in the debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Ms Kristina Valenčič, Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u121	Dear Prime Minister, representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! Let me begin by saying that Members and Members of the Civil Service List of the Proposals for Decisions on the State's real estate management plan for State administrations, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds for 2013 and 2014. The decisions are prepared on the basis of the provisions of the Real Property Act of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities, which was amended in September this year in order to enable operators and local communities to manage property more cost-effectively and easily. This law provides that the country's plans for the disposal of movable and immovable property shall be submitted for adoption by the National Assembly together with the draft budget and, of course, these extraordinary meetings are still on the agenda today. The plan follows the purpose of the amended Law on Real Estate of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities, as managers have included quite a number of new properties for which they have estimated that they do not need them for their operations. It is a fact that we can rightly expect a more cost-effective approach in the area of governance of state real estate, as it has been shown so far that we do not treat state property with sufficient care, insufficiently in the light of the good master. Many state properties are not in use and are only a cost to the state. The country still owns around 600,000 properties worth €5.5 billion. Unfortunately, individual operators still do not pay sufficient attention to the final legal and actual regulation of real estate and to their optimal economic efficiency. The practice so far shows a significant gap between the planned sales revenues and the proceeds themselves. Plan implementation is usually low also due to complicated real estate management procedures. Since the amended Law on Real Estate of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities provides for the simplification of these procedures, in particular the free transfer between the State and the local community, we rightly expect a significantly better implementation of the real estate management plans already in 2013. One of the main tasks of the State is to provide legal protection to real estate owners and to establish conditions for the functioning of the real estate market and loans. The State shall carry out these tasks on the basis of data from the national real estate records. These records must be accurate, maintained, public and user-friendly, and we expect the Government to do everything and do it as soon as possible to achieve this. As we say, we will support the Members and Members of the Civil Code with all four decrees.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-12-04-SDZ6-Izredna-23.ana.u122	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded with a presentation of the views of the groups of Members and a joint introductory presentation to all the proposals for resolutions. We are moving on to a debate on each proposal for a decision separately. We continue with item 4 of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for State Administrations and Judicial Authorities for 2013 The amendments to the supplementary motion for a decree have not been tabled, so we will vote in the framework of the vote on Thursday, 15 minutes after the end of the 8th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with item 5 of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for State Administrations and Judicial Authorities for 2014 Nor have any amendments been tabled here, and as in the previous paragraph, we will vote on the amended motion for a decree on Thursday in the framework of the vote, 15 minutes after the end of the 8th item of the agenda. With this, I also interrupt this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for other State Authorities for 2013. No amendments have been tabled here either, so we will vote on Thursday, 15 minutes after the end of the 8th item of the agenda. This also interrupts this item on the agenda. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for Other State Authorities for 2014. No amendments have been tabled here either, and as for the preceding points, we will vote after the end of the 8th item of the agenda on Thursday. I hereby also interrupt this agenda item and at the same time the 23rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. All good-bye and a happy journey!
