ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I begin the 7th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by colleagues: Happy Meh, Matthew Frangež and Roberto Battelli. I invited the meeting to the 1st item of the agenda of the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government, which is a matter of question. Then, on the 2nd item of the agenda of the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša and the Finance Minister, Dr Janez Šušteršič, the representative of the Council of State, on the 15th and 16th items of the agenda, and on the 19th item of the agenda, the candidate for the Member who has the right to replace the Member who has taken office in the Government and the representative of the State Election Commission, of course, the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. Dear colleagues from the Government and Mr. Wolf from the National Election Commission, I welcome you! We are moving on to the agenda of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the proposal on Friday, 12 October 2012, with a reference to the meeting. I have not received any proposals for withdrawal of items from the agenda or for enlargement, so I suggest that we set such a agenda as you have received by reference. Please check the functioning of the voting apparatus, as we will vote on the agenda of the 7th session. There are 76 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 7th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to 19. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. Designation of a candidate to act as a Member instead of a Member acting as Secretary of State in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members Since Mr Ljubo Žnidar was appointed State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, he cannot act as a Member. The State Election Commission forwarded a decision to the National Assembly on which candidate has the right to replace a Member who has served as State Secretary. The decision of the State Election Commission was also considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body and also submitted a written report to the National Assembly and a proposal for a decision. You've also received the report. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I am moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Would any of the Members like to present their position? [[No, no, ……]] We ended by presenting our views or not having them at all. Discussion of Members and Members. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. We will vote on the following motion for a decision: at a time when Member Ljubo Žnidar, acting as State Secretary in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, cannot act as a Member, shall perform this function in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members from today, Alenka Koren Gomboc, born 5. 1. 1975, resident Viè 48, Dravograd. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 3. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The Member's mandate has been confirmed and I invite my new fellow Member to join us in the parliamentary rations. I wish you to carry out the work of a Member of Parliament successfully. [[Applause]] I hereby terminate the 19th item of the agenda, the Mandate-Volution Case. We will continue on Thursday, 25 October 2012. We're moving to 2. Agenda item — Presentation of the 2013 and 2014 budget memorandum of the Republic of Slovenia, draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2013 and draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2014. Among us, I welcome, among other members of the Government, the President of the Government of Mr Janez Janša and the Minister of Finance, Dr Janez Šuštersič. We are moving to the first part of the 2013 and 2014 consideration and adoption of the draft budget. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 156 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance will present today a budget memorandum and both draft budgets. There is no discussion under the Rules of Procedure on this presentation. I give the floor first to the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, to present these budgetary documents. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The adoption of budgets, a budget memorandum and accompanying documents for the next two years is one of the five strategic steps Slovenia must take to get out of the crisis. I'm probably not the only one who would like today's presentation of the budget memorandum and the draft budgets to start differently for the next two years to be able to say that the financial and economic crisis is both with us and in the wider environment behind us, that all the indicators of development are promising to show that they are rising and so on. Unfortunately, this presentation cannot begin in this way, neither in us nor in Europe, nor in the developed world. And the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted the budget for the next two years with accompanying documents in circumstances that have been extremely difficult, more than ever since independence. Slovenia has emerged from a stable and growing country in recent crisis years as the country with the highest trend of public debt growth in Europe, which is why the gains of fiscal expansion in the period 2009-2011 are, above all, a reflection of the high price of missed opportunities. The real volume of gross domestic product in the country is now below the level from five years ago. After the gross domestic product per capita, expressed in purchasing power, we have lost almost a decade now at the level of 2003. The actual volume of investments fell even to 13 years ago, to 1999. Employment in the country is at the level of 2005, so we are there as we were seven years ago. On the other hand, employment in the public sector with 160,000 employees is far the largest in our history. The deficit in the state sector remained high after a strong rise or after a strong increase in the first crisis year 2009, as well as in the next two years, 2010 and 2011, and reached the highest level since 1995 last year. All of this, and much more, has caused strong pressure on our public financial position, that more than 6% of the budget deficits in 2009, 2010 and 2011 have increased the volume of public debt in the amount of 21.9% of gross domestic product at the end of 2008, over the limit of 50% and over three years we have doubled our public debt. More than €8 billion of debt from 2009-2011 ended up reflecting, instead of greater economic growth, investment and development with one billion gross domestic product and 48 thousand additional unemployed, so that this is not the main topic of this debate, even the question of where all this money went. Since December 2009, Slovenia has been facing the European Union's excessive deficit mechanism, and we are faced with the fact that we need to do much more for a substantial reduction today, in a much shorter time. A few years ago, it wasn't like that. Slovenia has faced the crisis with some structural problems that I will talk about later, as well as with the highest level of economic development in its history and as the other least indebted member of the euro area. The gross domestic product per capita, expressed in purchasing power, reached 91 % of the European Union average in 2008. This was for 4% points more than in 2004. And more importantly, this was for 7% points more than last year. With the exception of Luxembourg, we were the only member of the European Monetary Union with a public debt of below 22% of gross domestic product. We also had the lowest number of unemployed in our history, we had a practically balanced budget. However, Slovenia has also experienced a number of structural weaknesses. These were mainly due to an over-called graduateism or gradual approach to introducing urgent changes in the economy and an equal approach to adapting the labour market flow in general. High labour taxation, low inflows of foreign direct investment, low efficiency of tertiary education and investment in applied research and development, inefficient management of state assets and some other problems arising from pre-crisis times have prompted the slow improvement of the technological complexity of our economy. Therefore, the competitive readiness of the economy to face a strong fall in foreign demand and domestic use was weak and corporate indebtedness was too high at the start of the crisis. Of course, we have also been faced with everything listed in the preparation of budgets for the next two years. If you have looked at the motions of the documents, then you can see that the Government has been working through these documents to make up for what we have done in the last three years, despite a different vocabulary, hastyly separated and restore the confidence of domestic and foreign partners in Slovenia's decency to only manage public spending. So far, although we have promised this for the first time in 2009, then 2010 and 2011, it has still not worked. Even this time, of course, this objective is not easy, and this task is not easy because the autumn forecasts for the euro area for the whole European Union and also for the global economy as a whole were worse than the spring ones. Prognosis has also deteriorated for Slovenia. This, of course, represents additional problems, not only in the preparation of budgets for the future, but also in the implementation of the budget for this year. This year, 2% of gross domestic product is expected to fall, which is a good percentage point higher than expected in spring. In addition to the observable moderation of export growth, domestic consumption is shrinking. More and less favourable are the wider international circumstances, particularly those forecasting for the following year. Economic conditions, as we say, are uncertain. Recovery in the euro area is still at high risk despite the measures taken. At best, modest levels of economic growth will be achieved both in the euro area and in the European Union after this recession. All of this will affect our exporters and all companies that are either directly or indirectly involved in international economic space, almost all of them. In such situations, and with limited access to funding resources, we cannot expect any rapid economic recovery in the coming year. It would be unrealistic, as in previous years, to plan and sow illusions. We're still stopping the fall. At the same time, there is a considerable likelihood that all global economies will have to face rising energy prices again, which will, of course, have a negative impact on living costs and further weaken economic forecasts, due to the expectation of a tightening of the political situation in the Middle East. It is our responsibility to prepare for this scenario. In addition, in the last year the European Union has taken a number of measures that are acting in a different direction, which, if they have not already halted the development of the crisis, will have positive consequences and will therefore have an external environment that affects us, an environment that operates in both directions. Some influences are negative, others are positive. In the 2013 and 2014 draft budgets, we have thus included urgent short-term adjustments that will enable Slovenia to meet commitments under the surplus deficit process. After four years, those who control this measure and this correctional examination have enough promise, no more room for manoeuvre. These things simply need to be done because what we do and our instability threatens others, not just us. Our aim, of course, is also to restore investor confidence in international financial markets and to adopt such macroeconomic and other structural measures, which will also provide the Slovenian economy with long-term growth potential. In the first place, as has already been said, Slovenia must continue to consolidate public finances and, in the long term, tackle a public deficit below the 3% limit, and then approach our commitments from the ratified fiscal compact in the coming years, which of course means a balanced budget. This means, of course, that we will be forced to reduce the deficit even below 3%, because unlike what has been heard many times in Slovenia in recent weeks and months. The new European rule is not 3%, but is 0% of the surplus deficit with minimum tolerance. Some of the measures proposed are painful. The government is therefore aware that adapting the mass of wages in the public sector is a possible and sustainable extremely unpopular measure. We know that we have avoided this or that Slovenia or the previous government has avoided it in recent years, but it is necessary. So far, the public sector, hand to heart, all the indicators show and we all know that this is not how the crisis felt as drastic as the economy. The scope of employment in the private sector had to adapt to the crisis. In the economy, the number of employees has decreased dramatically. The number of bankruptcys has doubled each year according to the previous year. On the contrary, the number of employees in the public sector has increased and increased by 8 000 since the crisis occurred. Therefore, in the next two years, restrictive employment policies need to reduce wages and the public sector needs to be rationalised to an economic and rational level. In other words, regardless of what we want, what we think would be good, the public sector can only be as large as the state can afford. This has not been the case in recent years, so we have made a drastic commitment, and now these options are virtually gone. As a result of the crisis and, of course, the approach to resolving the crisis, investments or funds for them have been declining in recent years. We all know that investments are essential for economic recovery and therefore, in the budgets for the next two years, we are significantly increasing the investment index relative to wages and material costs. At a time when these investments were urgently needed, Slovenia also poorly invested available European funds in the current financial perspective. Many of these funds are still available and this is the main source of these investments. If we look at some comparisons, I think you also have them on screen, the fiscal policy in the 2004-2008 mandate was based on a relatively higher growth in investments and material costs, on lower transfers and on a relatively moderate increase in wages. In the last three years, however, the trend has been reversed. So we've had a relatively higher increase in wage funds. Transfers have also increased, partly in response to acute economic conditions or rising unemployment, but this was based solely on the economy. Only the economy lost jobs. The decline in investment and material consumption was relatively strong. So the part of the budget that is flexible, where it is the easiest to cut without immediately knowing each other, without adopting painful laws and adjustments. The price for doing so, of course, will not come until a few years later. And it's those years now. The reduction of state investment has also, of course, resulted in the uptake of budgetary expenditure with an important developmental role. This comparison of budgetary policies on these three key items, salary costs, material costs, investments, speaks for itself. The other solution, or other directions, as opposed to the one that led us to this crisis or to the brink of collapse, is not, in fact, simply because of the wrong response to the crisis. If you're going down and you want to find the right path again, you probably need to walk back for a while. Therefore, all of our efforts will focus on replacing this relative wage decline through the growth of investment funds during this budget period. At the same time, it must be said, dear colleagues and colleagues, that budgetary policy cannot be an isolated measure, as it does not work. The one we propose is planned taking into account the necessary additional measures. It's one of five strategic steps. The other measures are the rehabilitation of the banking system, the stability of the pension fund, safe flexibility in the labour market and effective and transparent management of state assets. This is the basis for the stability of the domestic economic system, as well as for the regrowth of the economy, and the Government has therefore adopted and adopted several legislative proposals to the National Assembly in the past month, all with a view to ensuring the long-term stability of public finances and creating conditions for economic development. The banking sector is facing a problem of capital inadequacy and weak credit potential, a major part of the economy that has adapted to the crisis and has basically good foundations, facing over indebtedness and, as a result, credit incapacity. The country's capital investments are scattered between different operators and management is inefficient and costly. The pension register is permanently structurally unbalanced. This is also due to its burden of transferable payments, which are not related to pensions, nor do they have a material basis in past payments to the pension fund. All the problems exposed are interlinked and conditional, as effective management of capital investments is not possible without a rehabilitated banking sector. The rehabilitation of the banking system also does not bring significant added value without the simultaneous recovery of the other economy or without a change in the environment that allows the economy to grow again. Economic recovery has a limited effect if the economy is facing a tough labour market, and consumer confidence is also low and acceptable if the labour market does not also provide adequate job security. In the end, it is increasing the deficit on the part of public finances, which is further strengthened by the long-term instability of the pension fund. It is precisely because of this reciprocity and co-ordination that there is no secret that the Government has decided on a comprehensive set of economic policy measures that relate to the exposed hotspots of the compromised stability of the domestic economic system. Just a few words about each of them. These measures, along with the remaining four budgets, are strategic responses to the circumstances under which we are located. Without the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system, it is not possible to count on positive economic growth, even if we do everything else, nor can we predict what will happen to companies that are currently in difficulty due to loans that cannot be repaid in time, otherwise they have sound foundations. The current model of crisis resolution in the banking sector has proved to be ineffective. It's a recapitalisation model. Over the past three years, Slovenian taxpayers have channelled new and new hundreds of millions of euros into state banks through the decisions of the Government and the National Assembly. Banks are still producing losses and at the same time we have banks in Slovenia that are not state-owned, which have operated under the same conditions of tight economic conditions and which create profits, and no one has recapitalised them, and no million taxpayers have invested them. Their mothers, too, were generally not granted this aid if they were foreign banks in other countries, because they had responded to the crisis and were not waiting for State aid which was otherwise granted to state banks. Therefore, the model of recapitalisation of banks has proved to be ineffective and expensive for Slovenian taxpayers, and the Government has therefore adopted the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. The law is based on the elimination of bad bank investments and their transfer to an independent institution. Proponents of internal liquidation of bad claims and advocates of further recapitalisation of state banks have not answered the simple question to this day how someone who, by granting unprotected and poor loans to the bank, can today guarantee their successful resolution. If we let go of all the other reasons. We are also convinced in the Government that independent management is a prerequisite for effective management of bad claims. Those responsible for a poor claim may manage it more by effectively covering the tracks of their own personal responsibility, which would be a key motive. The resolution of the banking system in itself will not, of course, ensure that the credit crunch is leaked. Many Slovenian companies are over-indebted and without an adequate share of property that would allow additional credit for development. The rehabilitation of the banking system is therefore necessary, but is not sufficient. The capital adequacy of enterprises will also have to be decided, new investments are necessary, foreign investments are necessary. When we talk about the country's capital investments, we first see that these are dispersed between the management of the five different institutions. This management is ineffective, expensive and opaque. It happens that different managers of the same state investment decide in the assemblies quite the opposite, even in conflict and irrational ways. Prizes are also being paid in these times, long-term contracts are being signed, jobs are actually being threatened and no one is responsible. The interconnection of private interests between members of the administration and the supervisory boards, which is a shift from good corporate governance practices, is also a major problem. All of this is avoided by the solutions we have written down in the Slovenian State Holding Act, which systematically reduces the value of state property and discourages the interest of foreign capital after investing in Slovenian companies. Both the economy and, in part, the banking sector today face restrictions on the labour market arising from the duality problem, whose direct victims are mainly young people who are employed for a certain period of time. The proposal for a labour relationship law and the proposal for a labour market regulation law therefore ensure safe flexibility by ensuring better protection of workers' rights, in particular reducing the administrative and cost burdens on businesses and introducing more effective control over infringements. New solutions will contribute to a higher proportion of workers for an indefinite period of time in the context of comprehensive labour market reform, according to stable forms of employment, which is a key objective not only of the individual but also of the countries. Today, Slovenia is still at all international comparisons at the top of the hard labour market, despite the fact that we have on the other hand, when it comes to jobs, especially those of young people for a certain period of time, great flexibility, wild flexibility without all rights, but that is certainly not seen in these international comparisons, nor is it of benefit to anyone at home. We're at the top of the rigidity in the labor market. In these international comparisons, each individual may be excited, but these comparisons are one of the key factors in determining whether someone from outside will invest in Slovenia or not. These random factors at the moment, which discourages foreign investors to invest more, or to invest in Slovenian companies at all. In relation to the labour market, we are, of course, facing the issue of transition from active to inactive populations and the issue of the stability of the pension fund, long-term stability. Our pension box is trapped in scissors during the period of payment to the cash register before retirement and the exorbitance of the pension box with payments other than pensions and which do not have the appropriate material basis in past payments. There are 48 of these categories in our pension register. We must therefore provide a system that will not only be stable but also fair. A system that will also allow pensioners to receive pensions in the coming years, which will halt trends in the recent period when pensions are falling so that those who retire in the coming years can reasonably count on a stable pension. The proposed law on pension and disability insurance is a step in this direction. The adoption of all these five strategic measures by the end of this year is of crucial importance for Slovenia at this time. This is not only the government's position, it is not only something that is not actually seen far without any wider economic knowledge, but also the official position of the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund, the three non-foreign institutions are also ours, because Slovenia is a part of each of these, but their opinion is very important and also has an impact on the country's credit ratings and on the value of our national assets or our silver. The adoption and implementation of these measures by the end of the year also means the possibility of a self-recovery of our high debts and the normal functioning of public finances. Acceptance also means raising the economic and business optimism created after these years of crisis, and all these measures will – not only indirectly, but also directly, especially the budget for the next two years – enable investment to grow and thus create new jobs or create new jobs. All these years of crisis, we have been repeating that the best social policy for Slovenia is not increasing social transfers, but opening new jobs, and it is finally necessary to take a step in this direction. The Republic of Slovenia presented itself well to investors in the United States and London last week. The outcome of this presentation is the successful issuance of the global dollar bond. The interest of investors was high, even the most prominent, and that is why we were able to borrow cheaper than we would now be in debt in the euro market. Nevertheless, the price of the debt could be significantly lower if Slovenia entered a fiscal rule into the constitution in due time. It should also be said that the delegation of the Minister of Finance to the investors attending the meetings and to those who monitored this online presented the measures that Slovenia is still taking at this time, for the exit from the crisis, which are also covered by the draft budgetary documents for the next two years and which are not yet in place. During this operation, we put our credibility back, but this time, on the technique. Those to whom we presented these measures believed that they would be established, but, as has already been said, the last time in advance. For the next time, they will actually have to be established and, of course, they will, in one way or another, because Slovenia will not be able to get through this turbulent sea of crisis normally and lose some of its sovereignty. Allow me to draw the line at the end under some of the arguments presented. First of all, it must be said that the adoption of the proposed budgets is the adjustment of public financial spending towards the objectives to which Slovenia has formally committed itself in 2010. It is important to stress that the proposed budgetary policy does not mean decommissioning the social state and abolishing the public sector, but it is measures that preserve both of them, even in the long term, by bringing ourselves closer to the economic possibilities of harmonising both of us and doing something not only for the benefit of this, but also for the future generation of those who will have to repay most of these billions that we have been indebted to in recent years. The proposed measures still do not, in essence, constitute some kind of savings in that they would put something aside for the future. Slovenia will also have to continue to be in debt for a billion euros a year in the next two years, because we will still have a budget deficit, even if it is below 3%, it is still a billion. The adoption of the submitted budgets for the next two years, for the first time, is a clear signal to domestic and foreign economic partners that Slovenia has taken the measures seriously and prudently and, secondly, is also a signal that we are capable of solving ourselves from this crisis situation and that we ourselves are able to generate new development after stopping the fall. The budget documents that are before you, directly with the figures, also show that the adjustments that are necessary because of the smaller inflows and because of the less debt possibility, because we have reached the limits, are still socially sustainable, that there is no danger that any social subsystem will fall apart as a result. It is important to be aware that if we are to maintain sovereignty, we need to manage our responsibilities. Those who are highly indebted and who cannot repay this debt in time, in tranches, in accordance with the contract he has signed or the obligation he has accepted are no longer sovereign. The trustee decides on a lot of things that the debtor must do to get that money back. Slovenia is here on the edge, at the end of the line. If we take another step, we will no longer control our responsibilities. And we will not be able to do that if we maintain the belief that this crisis needs to continue to last, that it will go away on its own, that nothing has to be sacrificed. This method will no longer work. This is the method that led us to the brink of collapse and to this point, when it is not possible to take more steps in the same direction. Last but not least, despite the fact that the whole of Europe and a large part of the developed world have been facing a financial and economic crisis in the last three years, this has remained somehow undetected in Slovenia. We had very little discussion about what measures others had to take at that time. In fact, there was virtually no knowledge of how some countries had to reduce wages in the public sector by 30% at the time, as well as in the public sector by 30%. We did not report on how many countries have gone in the direction of today, when they simply no longer have dozens of institutions that still existed three or four years ago, how the countries that did this in the first year of the crisis are out of it today and how they are normally developing, how they are again increasing public sector employment, how wages are growing there and so on. We have lived in a closed space, a balloon where these things were not actually discussed, we have only seen images of protests, if any government has proposed any austerity measures or restrictive measures, as was the result of this and the outcome, but this has not been reported. None of these protests have created any money; more or less these measures have been taken everywhere, one way or another, and only those countries that have waited too long have gone over the edge. We don't have to do that. We've had enough reserves so we shouldn't even be in this situation. We are just, and it would be further stupid if, in fact, despite all the warnings, despite all these foreign experiences, we took another step too far across this edge of the abyss. To maintain our sovereignty, we must control our responsibility. We have many good cases or examples of good practices where they have succeeded, and they have also been in a more difficult situation than we have been, and I suggest we look there. This is about our future. Today it is still up to us, only ourselves, to our decisions and after a good 20 years we have the opportunity to reaffirm our determination to remain on the path of sovereign decisions. Like 20 years ago, this time it is the sovereignty of our country and our community. The action ahead of you, the budget for the next two years, leads away from the crisis, leads to a return to growth, so the government proposes to support the budget accompanying the documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u3	I thank the President of the Government. I now give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr Janez Šuštersič, to further explain the memorandum and budgets for 2013 and 2014.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u4	Dear Members and Members, President of Parliament, President of the Government, fellow Ministers and Minister! Allow me to present a little more precisely the individual measures envisaged by the budget. I will limit myself mainly to the following year, 2013, which is at least slightly more predictable than 2014. The basic logic of budgets or draft budgets is to maintain the commitment to propose budgets and implement budgets that will bring the budget deficit below 3% of GDP next year. To insist on this commitment, we have decided, despite the deteriorating forecasts of the economic situation, because fiscal consolidation is the area where we have taken the fastest steps so far. While all other key measures to address the crisis have been taken in the National Assembly, some have already been faced with vetoes, other forecasts, perhaps even referendums, labour and pension legislation are still under consideration, so that the fiscal area needs to be pursued in a credible policy, as predicted. The set of measures proposed through the budgets are mainly structural adjustments to expenditure, in particular the elimination of certain illogicalities, without some general tax increases that we have estimated to be too risky in times of poor economic conditions, and incentives in particular in the field of investment. Let me start with this last one first, because maybe there's not enough talk about this, because we all talk about saving and reducing deficits in particular. The budget proposal for next year provides for 600 million more investment funds. These funds will be largely financed from European funds, the financial perspective is concluded, and many projects that have been linked to this are also concluded, and this assessment is therefore realistic. We propose a package of tax laws introducing flat-rate taxation for small entrepreneurs, which will be a major administrative burden for them, as well as a tax burden. With the law on the implementation of budgets, which is, of course, in line with the adopted Law on the resolution of the problem of bad banking claims, we propose the possibility of issuing guarantees to address the problem of bad banking claims. This is probably a key measure that will help to eliminate the credit crunch or, in view of the economic growth law, it is also crucial and reflected in the proposed laws accompanying the budget. Finally, we are also reducing the rate of taxation, the tax on the income of legal persons. This measure has already been adopted by means of the Act on the Balance of Public Finance or amendments to legislation in this field. This is one of the measures, in addition to measures in the field of public property management, aimed at attracting foreign investments in Slovenia. Several measures are envisaged in the area of expenditure. As they say above all, they are structural. The pension reform is estimated to bring some 150 million savings. We anticipate a reduction in the mass of wages in the public sector, in the public sector as a whole, not only in the public administration, given what has been adopted, which is in force in the adopted balance, means our proposal to reduce wages by about 5%, and it will also have to be corrected by what will be exceeded this year, because all measures have not been taken in the way they were originally proposed at the time of the rebalancing. This means, according to this year's balance sheet, about 200 million financial impact. We are proposing in the law on the implementation of the budget in order not to harmonise the pension, we are proposing to set the average for municipalities, which means a reduction, in view of what initially applied for this year for more than 3% of the consumption of municipalities. The overall impact of this on the budget on the revenue and expenditure side is around 40 million more in the budget. In the financial plan of the Health Insurance Office, we anticipate 40 million less expenditure than this year. This will also be achieved through measures to streamline public procurement, as well as in rationalising employment in the health system and standard measures of general cost savings in material costs and in other areas of current expenditure are also included in the proposed budgets. On the revenue side, we are also proposing a range of measures to boost revenue. In addition to what we are looking forward to next year from European funds, there is a whole range of tax measures, some have already been taken, and others are still under consideration in the National Assembly. We propose the introduction of a special tax, a transport tax on financial services and propose a slight tightening of the parameters of the balance sheet tax. That's supposed to bring $45 million together. This follows the frequent demands that the financial sector also contribute a greater share to reducing the public financial deficit. We are proposing a series of changes in the field of environmental duties, the burden on motor vehicles, in particular more powerful ones, is said to be an annual duty on motor vehicles. That's something we've been predicting since this year's rebalancing. We have also introduced a special duty this year, so-called CO2 levies in oil derivatives. The overall impact of these measures in the coming year is around 80 million. It is, therefore, an important step in the direction of something called a green tax reform. There are some things that have already been done in the area of income. In the Public Finance Balance Act, we introduced a 50% rate of income for two years. We also raised the rate of taxation of capital income from 20 per cent to 25 per cent. The current changes in tax legislation that have been sent to the National Assembly also foresee an increase, the right integration of rent income into the system of taxation of income from capital and the assumption of a reduction of some benefits for students and migrant workers. The overall impact of all these changes is around 55 million at annual level. Also, as you know, the Public Finance Balance Act has already raised the student work concession, and we also expect more than 30 million additional revenues to be earmarked for scholarships in the coming year. We are also proposing a few other measures, such as tightening the anti-crisis property tax, which is said to be a shift in the threshold for taxation to EUR 500 000 of property value per owner. And we also propose in the value added tax system that certain products and services that are currently taxed at a lower tax rate move to a general tax rate, it is said, a 20% rate. In particular, some services in the field of public hygiene, especially waste management, include food for domestic animals or pets, newspapers and magazines, and services such as hairdressers and sale of cut flowers. These tax measures have already been much debated, in particular on the latter, according to the proposed move of certain products and services from lower to lower overall value added tax rates. In doing so, let me say that this proposal has been proposed in the context of general thinking, to avoid some general tax hikes and to look at where there is room in the tax system, there may be some reliefs, some reductions that cannot be justified in particular during the crisis. That's why we've proposed a set, we've reviewed everything that's at this lower level. Finally, there was agreement through the Government's coordination to propose such measures. Of course, when these proposals were presented, we also said that during the parliamentary debate we would listen to a variety of objections, which, of course, rain on the part of all those mentioned earlier, not only on the part of those who might hear them the most, and we agreed, if necessary, on a different solution. As Minister of Finance, I will not listen to who will be the loudest or who will most often be on the front pages of the newspaper, but I will be particularly interested in arguments. However, I would like to say that there is very little fiscal space for any large withdrawal of tax proposals. There is no clear debate or argumentated debate on tax proposals from this point of view. I must say, the debate so far has disappointed me, in my opinion it has been trapped in narrow interesting frameworks, trying to find even an ideological framework. The worst example of such a discussion is the debate on the rise or movement of newspapers and magazines with lower general taxation on value added tax. Let me tell you an example that will very plastically tell you why this debate has disappointed me. After one of the budget meetings, which was very long one Thursday afternoon, I was expected by journalists who had only one question before the government building: "How many percent will you reduce public sector employment?" The other night, she was leaking news to the media, planning to raise taxes on newspapers and magazines. The next day, at an event, I met again with a handful of reporters. None of them asked me any more about how many people in the public sector would lose their jobs, and everyone was just asking me if we would actually raise the newspaper tax. This is a way of reacting, which, in my humble opinion, of course, is my own personal opinion, does not come from someone who wants to represent primarily the public interest and who wants to be a democratic medium, but who wants to put his own professional sector interest before such an important issue as, say, the percentage of forgiveness in the public sector. In the middle of the night, that was a forgotten question. However, I was particularly disappointed that this measure, which we proposed at the Ministry of Finance for purely fiscal purposes and in all fiscal considerations, tried to get into an ideological framework, czech, the government wants to deal with the media. This is clearly wrong because this tax rise, if adopted, will, of course, affect all newspapers and magazines, not just those that are sympathetic or unsympathetic to us. And we've never proposed higher VAT rates just for those newspapers that we get nervous about. I can assure you that neither the Minister of Finance nor, if you like, the National Gazette would ever propose measures just because they have some ideological content or because such ideological content is obvious to them. That is why I was even more disappointed that the President of the Republic sat down very quickly on this round of accusations about the ideology of this measure. I would like to have the President of the Republic, who, above all, would try to explain to people the need for reforms, and when he disagrees with a measure, to communicate in a way that is justified, but not to put the debate on some measures into an explicit ideological framework. In such a context, the debate on tax changes is, of course, very difficult. Since there will be much debate about these tax changes and there will probably be a lot of debate, and I will be happy to hear about it, I will also propose some alternatives to mention briefly, what alternatives we have already discussed in the Government and what were the problems we have seen in these alternatives. One option would be to raise the value added tax in general, but we have estimated that this would be too risky in terms of the economic situation. In addition, we have, of course, such a measure as you know, not foreseen, but also already adopted in the Public Finance Balance Act 2014, if we go beyond the budgetary objective in 2013, the real objective of the budget deficit is to do so. And a second time. The measure, which has been quite mentioned, has been the introduction of a special additional income, so-called anti-crisis income, following the example of many countries, also, for example, Luxembourg has introduced something similar for two years. We also said here that we should wait a while with this. It would be a measure that would reduce purchasing power for all. There would also be a very complex impact of such a measure on psychology, the question of whether it would be more acceptable than those measures that we have now proposed. In this debate on taxes, I am most pleased that taxes are finally once understood as a problem, and this is generally understood as a problem, not just a solution. So far, the debate has been too often in this direction, but raise taxes and there will be no problems. I just wanted to clear up what I said, the key arguments and the problems of different solutions. However, these solutions, which we have proposed as a government, are not without a problem that they can also be accounted for. That is why I also said that this is also the agreement that we will listen to all these allegations or objections, different proposals, and finally accept what will be the most acceptable or what we will reach an agreement on. Let me say something else about the budget funding itself. There was usually not much talk about this when the budgets were presented in the National Assembly. However, during this year, as well as last year, the situation in the financial markets has deteriorated. At the beginning of March, we made some presentation of bonds on the euro market. We were then told that Slovenia had a new government, it was nice that this government had plans, but, of course, investors would have wanted to see the implementation of these measures before they were ready to think about lending money at a more favourable price than they had then in the markets. In particular, we have done a great deal of work in the area of public finances balance this spring, which is recognised to us by all who accompany Slovenia, including international institutions and already mentioned investors. Of course, through this process of identifying what the situation is like in countries, we have also learned much more about the situation in the banking system. When we started in June, July, to talk very openly about these problems, to talk also about the extent of bad claims, about the number of billions, you know these numbers, 6 billion in the entire banking system, maybe 4 billion guarantees will be needed to solve this, a billion more recapitalisations may be needed. These are the ceilings, but the figures that are based on some real data, and we have also presented and explained them all the time when we're considering the bad bank claims law. As a result, the conditions of indebtedness for Slovenia have increased. In the last week or two, we have made very precise presentations of government plans, what has already been done, what has already been adopted in the National Assembly. We did not conceal these facts at all, either, that they were vetoed to talk about referendums and the like. Nor could they, since all these investors we have met know Slovenia very well or know its main problems. Nevertheless, we have succeeded, according to our assessment, in a successful commitment, but I would like to be very realistic about this success and about this commitment. This assignment does not mean that we have any additional money. This commitment only means that we got the money that we were already counting on when we adopted the balance and when we proposed the budget for the following year. If we didn't get that money, then we would probably meet in a month at the latest to decide, as Minister of Finance, whose obligations of the state budget I will not settle, because I simply would not have enough liquid assets available. So we got nothing more than what was planned, and what we got is enough for a few months of budget implementation at the beginning of next year. We have received this loan, especially on the basis of confidence that the government programme, which has been assessed positively as the right measures, will also be implemented. Let me say something else about why this bond issue seems successful. Because one or two weeks ago we were told 6.40, last Sunday, they said, because you might collect money, you might collect money, but the interest rate will be around 6.40. Finally, there were 5 times too many bids, the interest rate on coupons is 5.50, the cost of return is 5.70, but the operation of exchange swaps, which we also protected ourselves from exchange rate risks, reduces this cost so that the actual cost is around 5.50%. If you look at the trends in bond yields over the last two months, you will see that in September, when the European Central Bank's actions were announced, interest rates or benefits fell to all countries, but less Slovenia than other critical countries in the euro area, Spain and others. In the last week, when we presented these plans very intensively, we dropped these gains the most. I think that says something. Much of the time in these interviews was devoted to solving the banking system, these numbers, the additional public debt risks I mentioned earlier. Obviously, we are convincing enough not only to say this number, but also to explain the measures that the Bad Bank Claims Act foresees that everyone has assessed that these are the right measures and that they can actually solve the problems that we have in the banking system. This means that, of course, in the coming months, we must do everything that the Prime Minister has already talked about, which is the government's programme by the end of the year. It is only in this way that we will apologize for the trust that has been largely linked to what we have already done, but to a greater extent to what we have foretold and to do this we can only argue as some argument that we have succeeded and that we have decided to proceed with these measures. If someone decides to block these measures, either by voting on the veto or by referendums or otherwise, of course he will have to take responsibility. I would very much like those who today speak so easily that a law must be rejected at a referendum or something like that, that they should then go to investors themselves and explain to them how they see that this Slovenia will become a country that will be economically successful, who would again want to borrow money – their own private money. This is not the case with a sentence written by an IMF official or the European Commission and where you may be able to negotiate something about what it says. It's the people's decision to lend you their private money because they believe in what you explained to them that you were going to do. And I do not believe that those who, every day, crouch against these measures and predict different blockades, can come to these same investors, present a different programme and on this basis get the same loan or be able to convince them. The budgets proposed also raise the question of whether they are real or what if the measures are not implemented. We have proposed budgets on the assumption that pension reform will be adopted in order to take measures in the labour market that we have proposed to also get a final legislative mandate in order to tackle the problem of bank claims with all possible speed. It may happen that some of the things will not be adopted as proposed, but we are not thinking about some alternative plans here. We are convinced that it is the best way to accept this, not only to implement these budgets that are proposed, but also within one year to create conditions for faster development, for faster economic growth. During the following month or another week, more will take place not only in the National Assembly but also in the public, in the media, where, of course, it is already taking place. I would like this debate to be reasoned. As we say, some of the comments, those who are most justified and will not mean to exceed the framework that we have outlined, are willing to listen. In the past two weeks, which I have spent further at the meeting of the Eurogroup Nekofina then at the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and then at the virtually non-stop presentations to investors in the United States and Great Britain, I have seen that what the government is planning, and what we have to say here, the arguments they have for these measures enjoy, at least abroad, a lot of understanding and a lot of support and a lot of confidence. I would like this understanding and support to feel at least something in these parliamentary debates and the presentations we will have next week.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I therefore thank the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance for presenting the budgetary documents. This concludes the presentation of the budgetary memorandum and the draft budget for 2013 and 2014. Today's presentation also opens the deadline for the submission of amendments to the 2013 draft budget and to the 2014 draft budget. The amendments may be tabled by Members, Members, Members of Parliament and interested working bodies, until the key date of 2 November 2012. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. Mr Franz Bogovic, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, apologized for this point today. You have received a review of the questions sent to you which were not answered within the deadline of business. First of all, we are moving on to parliamentary questions to the President of the Government. The first question will be raised by Mrs Maša Kociper, Positive Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states that Slovenia is a legal and social state and that before the law we are all the same. Both the word "legal" and the "social" and the words related to equality are becoming more and more just a dead letter on paper with your government's mandate. How the government represents a social state and within this equality, you have shown in particular by means of savings law and other measures, and you say this every day by means of a way of dialogue with the social partners. For all past mistakes, the price will obviously be paid by citizens, particularly the public sector, pensioners and the socially weak, not the wild and unregulated financial sector that caused the crisis at all. The rule of law also loses its force daily, including through the adoption of legislation under urgent and reduced procedures, with numerous illegal decisions and decisions by the government and with many unconstitutional legal solutions. That is why people in the rule of law no longer believe and lose or have already completely lost confidence and respect for our country as such and its institutions. This loss of confidence is reflected in all areas, not only in confidence in government and politics, but also in non-discipline of payments, general indifference and pessimism, and not least in non-tax payments. Restoring confidence will require many and complex changes, but will by no means be possible without the appearance of the highest political and other representatives. As Prime Minister of the Government, you have sworn to respect the constitutional order and to take care of the welfare of Slovenia and to protect its reputation, so you are obliged to make a substantial contribution to this goal by your attitude and conduct. Your attitude towards state institutions is very clear that 30 criminal proceedings have already been filed in the District Court in Ljubljana on the case where you are among the accused. Of the 30 hearings, you were able to attend 10. Mr President, please answer the question: In your opinion, do defendants in criminal proceedings have a duty to respond to the invitations of the courts, or is the response to an invitation left to their judgment? Since the answer is quite clear or at least it should be, please answer me: What message do you give in terms of equality before the law by your conduct to other citizens? Do you thus tell them that they must respond to the call of the court when it calls, and reasonably, should they respect state institutions and, for example, register property or pay taxes? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u7	Thank you. The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u8	Thank you for asking. We both know the law of the process. There is a criminal procedure against me not on the basis of a criminal charge, as it is wrong to say, but on the basis of an indictment which cannot be authorised because there is no objection against it and there was no investigation. There was no court investigation before, so there was no such proceeding. In this procedure, a well-respected colleague, the presence of defendants is not compulsory after the charges are read and the defence is given. The Court may proceed peacefully, regardless of whether the defendants are present. For every hearing where I was missing, I apologized, and a judge who is the only one who can decide on the merits of this has always confirmed it. And that's the end of the matter. As far as your concern for the fate of Slovenia, our rule of law, the social state, etc., I recall that we, as the opposition in the previous term, have now made a lot of comparisons, put more than 200 counter-crisis measures into the procedure, advocated them, called extraordinary meetings of working bodies and parliaments on this subject, proposed a number of solutions that have been rejected, and we have not embarked on a personal level in the matter of Members of Parliament, but we have asked questions about matters on which the fate of citizens and citizens is indeed dependent, their quality of life, legal security and so on. I would just like to see this relationship slowly established in this mandate, because we have even bigger problems than we had in the previous.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u9	Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u10	Your Honor! That participation in such criminal proceedings is not necessary for the accused, of course it is not. In fact, given your answer, I wonder if you have any interest in this process, whatever it is, as soon as possible, because every ordinary thinker is convinced that someone who wants to prove his innocence wants the process to end as soon as possible and that the truth turns out. By avoiding yourself, you are unreasonablely prolonging the duration of a procedure that may otherwise have ended, thereby increasing people’s mistrust in the functioning of the judicial system. Any other citizen who has so long avoided arriving at the main hearings where, among other things, a number of witnesses coming from abroad have been interviewed would perhaps or certainly have been forcibly detained. As far as we know, you apologize to the Austrian court, and at least that's what the media reported, with the help of a lawyer, you agreed to testify through a video conference. In each criminal procedure, while the principle of directness is that when a court adopts an opinion on the credibility of the accused and witnesses by directly participating in the proceedings, it is extremely important. Coming to court and testifying in court before a judge and other present also has a significant difference in value than witnessing through a video conference when answering questions in the comfort of your office. In addition to whether you want to end the procedure at all, I ask you a further question: Do you believe that other citizens would receive the same ratings in a similar procedure and that the constitutional principle of equality applies to all of them, or are they really more equal than the others? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u11	President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u12	Look, maybe you can tell someone who's legally ignorant by what you've read, I don't know who wrote this to you, you know. But the thing is, it's not like you introduced her. When an indictment is read and the defendants make a defence in such a case, their absence in no way delays the process for a second, it reduces it to a greater extent if they do not ask witnesses questions. What questions should I ask? My defense lasted exactly half a minute. How am I supposed to defend myself against the accusation that I haven't been to an undetected day in a place that hasn't been identified and that I haven't received a promise, a reward in an undetermined way? How would you defend yourself against such an accusation? My defense lasted exactly half a minute. I have nothing to ask the witness because none of the witnesses accused me. However, it is in the interest of someone in the interest of drawing on this process and of politicising it, but it is precisely your performance with which you have transferred some legal matter from the debate room to the political room, to parliament, proof of that.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u13	Mrs. Masha Kociper, is this a request for discussion?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u14	An application for a hearing. I think it would be important to discuss this issue with a view to clarifying these issues. Surely the defendant's participation is not equal to the participation of a witness who may or may not participate in the debate. And that's what I'm talking about. What message is it that you do not participate in the debate, whatever you think about this case, however unfounded, that you report to the people who have to participate in the debate? The debate would also make sense to raise questions about what the President of the Government is telling citizens and the public by practicing and launching a media race against a prosecutor who was just doing her job. In the end, the prosecutor left the D.A.'s office because of the pressure, and you are again charged with criminal proceedings on the basis of a false accusation. It would also be interesting to talk about the work of some lawyers, who, contrary to clear legal provisions, publicly comment on the work of the prosecution and, in their statements, undermine the reputation of the court. In Positive Slovenia we are really aware that your work is important that you are very burdened, so here we will give up the debate on this issue, and this should be our contribution to having more time and will to go to court. Even if we ask the questions sent, we are prepared to give up in such a case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u15	Thank you. The next question will be posed by the Magi. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u16	Mr President, the assignment is over. Your firm words at the beginning of this year. Is it not the truth, is it the deception of people, or is it just the ignorance of the situation that Slovenia is in? I haven't been able to check if the counter on your website, the SDS website, the public debt counter, is still running. But it's a fact that I'd jump a lot on Friday. On Friday, our country committed 1.7 billion euros. For a thousand 340 Euros, you owe each Slovenian and Slovenian. At the end of the year, public debt will be close to the magic limit of 60% of GDP. Following the resolution of the banks, of course, in your way, public debt will severely exceed 60% of GDP. Debt with the new government will increase strongly, it would be the right sentence. Pension reform is not necessary there until 2015. Your words at the end of January this year, 2012. Is it not the truth, is it the deception of people, or is it just the ignorance of the situation that Slovenia is in? Since 2009, the European Commission has seriously warned us that pension reform is key to Slovenia. As early as February 2012, you said that pension reform was not necessary and that we had time. Why did you change your mind from February to today, Mr. Janša? The pressure of Europe, the pressure of financial markets, or did you simply realize that last year's fall in pension reform was a major mistake? How will you convince people today that this pension reform is better, that it is necessary, that Slovenia really needs it? You'll probably understand the people's request for a referendum, as you understood it last year. Four times against, it was your slogan last year. One against was aimed at pension reform and one against the Pahor government, which had no support from the people. Your government doesn't have the support of these same people today either. Is that a good enough reason for a referendum, in your opinion? It was last year. You supported last year's referendum yourself. President of the Government, I ask you: What are the differences between Svetlik's pension reform and the reform of Minister Visiak? Did it really make sense to wait a year and a half and thus build up a lot of problems, problems and also a lot of extra costs? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u17	The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u18	Thank you so much for asking. Although I have answered similar questions many times before, it is no harm to be told again in the mill. The word reform for two different things is something we can use, but let's not say anything about content. In fact, there was no decision within the mandate of the previous government, and the Government had adopted it, but it was not called for reform, and in fact no substantial movement was proposed, except when it came to the Act on the Unification of Social Transfers. This could earn that name — what the exact effects will be, we will see the end of the year — and when it comes to amending pension legislation. However, this is a significant difference between what was proposed last year and what fell at the referendum and what we are proposing. We'd be crazy to suggest something that 70% of people turned down at the referendum last year. That's why we didn't do it. The illuminating approach was based on the fact that it was necessary to simply raise the retirement age, to leave the pension system as it was, uncleaned, and to introduce in the meantime some changes, without introducing measures that would also encourage the young generation to be included as soon as possible in pension insurance or in fixed-term employment. We eliminate all these shortcomings and do not assume that you simply need to increase the retirement age with an old pension, where in certain relationships this does not help you. You can raise retirement by the age of 80 if you want. If there are no new jobs, if there are no inflows to the pension register, and if people do not pay longer in the pension register, it will eventually collapse. Last year, the average payment time for a retirement pension was 35 years and 4 months. We've been lifting this for 40 years, no exception. This is a key substantive difference. It doesn't matter how old you are when you retire, but it doesn't matter. It's crucial how much time you put in the pension fund. From this point of view, the approach of the former government was very unfair to those who had started working earlier and in this respect the trade unions rightly opposed it. The accession was also unjustifiable from this point of view that none of these 48 categories of pension payments were made today. But they're not pensions. We give the pension back the status it has and the kind that people want, and so do many people think it has. The pension is neither a social transfer nor a privilege. The pension is a payment for past work, a payment for contributions, a refund for contributions you made back at the time you were employed and paid those percentages into the pension register. It's a pension. Retirement is something you deserve. Our pension system has, and we do not change, elements of intergenerational solidarity and also has elements of general solidarity – we do not change that either. However, we clean up the pension system of all expenditure that is not pension by any definition. Some of these will still be paid, but will be paid from other titles, both social privileges and anything, but this will not burden pensioners. And with these measures, we are working for the first time on a sustainable pension system for the future period, so that those who receive pensions today can count on receiving them in the coming years. We make it fair without being less solidarity, but we will know on the basis of personal calculations how solidarity someone is. And we also make it more attractive for young generations to be interested in paying into the pension system first, because they will be able to calculate what kind of pension follows them. None of this happened last year, and the people justly rejected that proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u19	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, request an additional reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u20	Thank you. Mr President, do you really believe that these are the differences worth losing a year and a half? Do you really believe that? To lose because this delay costs us enormously, and to lose because when the people are here, when the pension reform is here, we can clearly show that you are not offering anything new. More or less, it's the same solutions. But I still don't understand why such a conversion from last June to this year, in fact, from this year's February to this year, when you explained to us all that pension reform is not necessary until 2015? Last week, your government adopted an uncoordinated pension reform, uncoordinated with the social partners. Last year, this was one of the key reasons why you voted as a Member against pension reform. You and your entire delegation. As Prime Minister of the Government and as President of the largest government party, what will you advise your Members if the Government of the Pension Reform fails to comply with the social partners? This time, you're gonna advise them to go against it? The reason would be the same as last year. In Positive Slovenia we are aware of the situation in which Slovenia is, we are aware that reforms are necessary, but it is difficult to understand that a reform is necessary today, and yesterday, when you did not lead the government, it was completely unnecessary. Yours, of course. Mr President, please, if you really can tell me: Did it make sense to wait one year and half, and thus to raise a lot of additional costs for Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u21	President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u22	I could explain it long and wide, but if you don't believe me, read the OECD assessment of last year's pension reform. That assessment made it clear, even if Slovenia accepts this, it will have to correct this approach in the coming years. In any case, we should be correcting this matter, even if we had accepted it last year, but it would be harder to say now that another pension reform needs to be done, because people would say that we have done one already. And the one from 2000 is only being realized because the retirement age is still increasing. As regards the change from February to today, the two reasons we explained very precisely in August when we proposed this law. The first reason is that the economic forecasts for this year have changed significantly for the following year from spring to autumn. I've talked about this before, and I'm not gonna say it again. New holes were emerging, and in August, our ratings were based on that fiasco, when we naively believed that the opposition would also be willing to push this wagon out of the crisis, and we did not agree on anything, so it fell dramatically. That is why the Government has changed its priorities and we have also said this openly and we have proposed the law, which was planned for the second year, for this year. We need the short-term effects of this law and these effects are foreseen. These effects are foreseen in the budgets that we have previously discussed with the Minister of Finance. Part of this budget package is this. This is why this is also the case for proposals that have immediate short-term financial effects, as opposed to what was proposed last year. Why didn't the Constitutional Court ban the referendum? Because it has said that this proposed legislation does not have short-term financial effects, even if the law falls, it will be possible to propose a new one year. No drastic consequences will arise. It was already a referendum, even though the government tried to ban it through the Constitutional Court. Read this explanation. This is an additional difference between the two laws, which will probably be very important when it comes to deciding whether or not such a referendum is allowed.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u23	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u24	I propose that we hold a debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on this reply. Especially because of one fact. Mr Janša, this reform will have to be rectified sooner than Svetlik's should have been. That's what all the experts will tell you. Seven years is supposed to be sustainable and the last fifteen. That's how the numbers are. The differences between Vision and Svetlik's reform are minimal, but it is only right to get real answers. Experts say that these differences are 5%. If it was worth losing a year and a half! After the fall of the pension reform, the price of money for Slovenia increased considerably. That's what all the data shows. The price of money for Slovenia increased by more than 2% per year. For your Friday debt, this means €340 million more for our country, €170 for each of our citizens, and €340 million is as much as a lady for maternity benefits, ten times as much as we gave for free kindergartens, and ten times as much as we gave for free nutrition for schoolchildren and students. We did, yes, because this year you have radically reduced or even abolished all of this. This is the price paid by Slovenia for one and a half years' delay.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u25	We will decide on your procedural proposal tomorrow evening as part of the vote. Mr Janko Weber, Social Democrats, will raise a third question to the Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all, especially to the Prime Minister! Dear President! In the opinion of the Social Democrats, it should be of very great interest for every government to allow Croatia to join the European Union as soon as possible, so that it becomes a full member of the European Union itself. Finally, it is also a historical, cultural and linguistic link between us, as well as the possibility of intensive cooperation in the economic field, as well as the development of the region as a whole in which both countries operate. In the previous mandate, a great deal of effort has been made precisely in this direction to prevent abuses in some of the different issues or opinions on solving each other's issues, in order to make use of this for internal policy points and to keep the individual government alive in Slovenia or Croatia. So after 20 years, I can say, even the poisoning of our relationship, the Pahor government has successfully formed an arbitration agreement. Last but not least, the issue of the maintenance of the Mura embankments and the issue of fishing has been resolved because Slovenian diplomacy has achieved that the small-border agreement with Croatia remains an international treaty. In addition, during the period of the previous government, there were several other activities that indicate that the Government wanted to take a structured approach to regulating relations between Slovenia and Croatia, and in particular it wanted to re-emerg on the development process of our region, which includes all the countries of the former Member States of the common country or of the current Western Balkan country. The so-called Brdo process was launched, where both the President and the President of the previous government launched the Western Balkans process, with the aim of bringing all countries back together and thus becoming a significantly more credible partner in discussions with the other members of the European Union. The Declaration on the Western Balkans was also adopted in the National Assembly. In the last period, however, it is not practical to follow up on some concrete measures on mutual cooperation. That's why I'm asking you, Prime Minister, What is the strategy of the Slovenian Government until relations with the Republic of Croatia are further regulated and reintroduced?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u27	The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u28	First, some addition to this history that was described here. If we remember correctly, then the mandate of the former government, when it comes to regulating relations with Croatia, was slightly different from what was said here. If we remember correctly, the previous government openly threatened to block Croatia from entering the European Union, brought Europe and the whole world against itself, and then, overnight without consulting the opposition, agreed to an arbitration agreement, which we do not know the results, we do not even know when they will come. Before boasting about these results, I would like to see them; I also advise you that there will be no lumps in your throat when they come. But that's behind us. There was a referendum, most people decided to support it, and that is to be respected. However, these were not the only open issues that should be addressed at a time when Croatia concluded negotiations for entry into the European Union. You also closed Chapter 4, Free movement of capital without solving the issue of debts and claims of the former Ljubljana Bank office in Zagreb. All your government, Mr Weber, has received was an oral promise from a former Prime Minister somewhere, not to accuse them of how this will go, as agreed, through the resolution of matters of succession. That statement was forgotten. They are suing, the proceedings are being brought before the courts, and we have an open problem here, which, in fact, we find it difficult to blame the European Union, because they say to us there: "You have closed chapter 4. That's when you said it was all right, that this was resolved. What are you coming up with now?" Before we talk about the warming of relations, for the first time, let us sweep away our threshold and acknowledge what we have done and what we have not done, and for the second time, if we want the mechanisms we have now set up to solve these open issues, act and have their positive effects – and we all want good relations and also that Croatia fulfils all the conditions and enters the European Union, this is finally also in the strategic interest of this country – we do not talk too much about it. If you think that this question of yours has contributed to making these relations warmer and that the matter will be resolved more quickly, then I think you are wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u29	Request for a response, Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. I have to admit, I didn't expect to know how constructive the answer was, but still. And to explain it to you. The former government reacted very strongly at a time when we found that, in the documents prepared by neighbouring Croatia for entry into the European Union, it also misuses the data relating to the regulation of the border issue. That is why Slovenia reacted decisively with the President of the Government at the time and prevented Slovenia from reaching a border issue regime to the detriment of Slovenia. This was prevented by a strong presentation of the facts and, later, by a constructive proposal to form an arbitration agreement. A very concrete proposal that we have actually burdened both countries or, above all, Slovenia not to deal with border issues, but to deal with economic issues, namely the development of Slovenia. When you mention that chapter 4 is closed, I ask you why you are reopening it and thus proving that you are reopening the question to a bank that is no longer the issue of Croatia's entry into the European Union. Why are you reopening this issue, which is actually closed, and it is not to be expected if you are opening questions that are closed so that we can talk about constructive cooperation? And the President, I would like to remind you once again of this, such unresolved issues, such a modified attitude towards the issues already resolved within the European Union reduces the credibility of Slovenia. And when we ask ourselves whether any ratings of Slovenia will fall again, forgive me, such a way of ruling is one of those that does not increase the credibility of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u31	Mr. Jansha.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u32	I don't know if I just understood this supplement. How do we open the chapters? [[advertising from the hall]] Chapter's closed. Your government signed it. The negotiations will not start again. It can't be formally opened. But the question that should have been resolved earlier was not solved. Do you have maybe 800 million euros you'll give away from any funds for this? This issue needs to be addressed. This is a specific problem where the proceedings are brought before the courts. This is a concrete problem because Croatia has committed itself to closing Chapter 4 in order for all financial institutions of the Member States of the European Union to have a smooth performance on the Croatian market. Could the Ljubljana Bank be operating there, operating in your time of warm relations? He can't. The question is settled. You've left an unresolved question aside from essentially signing that it's been resolved. You just left this problem behind and we're saving it and we're trying to solve it in the best way possible. Mechanisms, institutions are in place. A fellow foreign minister is working very hard on this issue. The flag hasn't fallen yet. Don't work out of this bigger problem than it is, especially because it shouldn't be. This issue should be resolved. It was much simpler than any others, and it was easy to overlook. So, see, Slovenia and the Slovenian government have an obligation to protect the interests of Slovenian citizens and Slovenian institutions, and this will be done by this government. But it would be much easier if we didn't stay under the rug. If you'd stayed on the table, at least you'd have seen them, but you left them under the rug, so it's so much more difficult. And then that's how these questions open up. Those seeking compromise solutions have a difficult task.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u33	Request for a discussion on the answer. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u34	Thank you, President. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I request a discussion on the response of the President of the Government. I would also like to remind you that, even though Mr Samo Bevk, a fellow Member of Parliament, asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs a while ago about the issue of Croatia's integration into the European Union, how these activities will be carried out, as is the position of the Slovenian government. At that time, we received a very scrupulous answer, which in my opinion should by no means be the answer. These are three lines where it refers to the entry into force of the Accession Treaty in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 1 July 2013. In the meantime, it must be said that 12 countries have already ratified Croatia's accession treaty to the European Union. And what I wanted to hear today is how and how dynamic the Slovenian government is in ratifying the accession treaty to the European Union. There was no answer. I agree, however, that the question of the banks that you have raised, President of the Government, is not an issue that we would be discussing here in Parliament. And let me stress, we do not see the need for Social Democrats to discuss this issue in Parliament, because this is an issue that diplomacy must solve. And we also expect it to save him, although when we look at the budget for 2013, 2014, you are enormously increasing the amount for this agreement, enormously, a million euros somewhere. So I hope it doesn't come down to finding out that someone made a good living, but nothing has been agreed. As I stress, we do not want to discuss this issue in Parliament, but we want to know what is the dynamics and the process of negotiation you have at the time of Croatia's entry into the European Union. So we don't wait till 1:00. Seven. 2013 and then we will find out whether this is going to happen or not. This is a simple approach, which is similar to what we have also met on more serious issues during this period, which relate to the sale of assets, to the rehabilitation of banks. Without clear messages to the National Assembly, how this is to be done, this government activity in the international field is also clearly taking place. Given that you obviously have no strategy on this, I propose that we actually hold a debate in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u35	Thank you. We will vote on this proposal tomorrow. A coalition question for the Prime Minister of the Government. He'll be put up by a mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, distinguished Mr. President of the Government! This government came into power early this year, in very difficult economic, social and financial times. Finally, a very large financial deficit was created in the previous three-year period. It amounted to over 6.4% of the gross social product, the indebtedness of the State doubled. Similarly, the number of unemployed has doubled, and at the same time many jobs, more than ten thousand, have been abolished. These were the jobs in which foreigners were mainly employed in 2003-2007. That was why very urgent measures had to be taken, and this had to be done at the outset. One of the first was the Public Finance Balance Act. This has significantly reduced the expenditure of the state budget and the public sector. In particular, the competitiveness of the system has increased by adopting certain measures in the tax area, in order to increase in particular the incentives for investment and facilitation for research and development. They also addressed changes in economic regulation administrative bureaucratic complications and complex procedures in particular to enable investors to have more opportunities. However, we have before us important laws to be passed in the National Assembly, which have already been adopted by the Government. These are mainly laws on the regulation of the pension system, where, among other things, it is desirable that young people be more motivated to pay their pension contributions. The aim is to prevent the imbalance or inequality between young and old by changing labour legislation and, above all, by regulating the banking system and managing the assets. This is in the 2013 and 2014 budget, and that is, of course, also believed by foreign investors. I want to know: Why is the adoption of the proposed reforms necessary, and in particular what would be the consequences in the event of their non-acceptance, both for the country and for citizens? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u37	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u38	Thank you for asking. I would start by supplementing one of the previous discussions because the Rules of Procedure had been misused, but at that time it was not possible to respond, and this is an obvious fact that Slovenia is still in debt and that last week we had a huge debt and that we are all now happy that we can do it at all. Little paradoxical or truth is that it could be even worse, we could not, and we should ask for foreign financial assistance, lose some sovereignty and adopt even more severe conditions, and then instead of social dialogue in Slovenia, which is still going on and we should coordinate on all these open issues, we still send all the laws to the social partners and the opposition as well, and our ministers are willing to explain everything. This was not the case in the previous term. Even five minutes ago, the previous government did not take the initiative to harmonise with anyone, especially the opposition or the Slovenian Democratic Party, of pension legislation. The fact that we still owe ourselves, as I said earlier in the presentation of the budget memorandum and budgets, is to a large extent due to the fact that we have committed ourselves enormously so far and we have to service this debt. It's something to be paid for. We are giving more in this year to service public debt than we are to invest. Those billions have to be returned. We don't have six or seven billion more than three or four years ago, but seventeen billion to pay back. And the 17 billion interest rate is even higher than what we paid a few years ago, and even less money. And in the future, we will have to service this public debt, whatever government still owes. Or, I don't know, cutting wages in the public sector by half and firing 40% of employees, which is the collapse of many subsystems. So those who are obvious now to the Government that they still owe this billion don't really know what they're talking about and who they're telling and what the alternative is if, on the other hand, all the measures that stabilise Slovenian public finances are opposed. All these five strategic steps that you ask and what the consequences would be if we didn't implement them are connected, I've talked about it in part before. First of all, the house needs to be put in order, it is said to stabilize public finances, according to homework, it is necessary to do what every household in Slovenia knows, to make a start at the end of the month, to limit itself to what you create, to spend as much or perhaps as much as you can with your neighbors or anywhere else you can borrow. That's what we do. With the Public Finance Balance Act, we have taken the first major step, which will have positive consequences in the second year and in the coming years, and we add to this step a budget and a budget memorandum with accompanying documents, which together forms this strategic shift towards balanced public finances and sustainable development, sustainable development, if you want, without having to be solely responsible for what we use, not just for what we have already rented. The resolution of the banking system or the stabilisation of the banking system is crucial, without this service the economy cannot function normally. Many companies that are fundamentally healthy need this service. Many companies that are emerging, these start-up ideas, will find it difficult to break through if this service is not at least at microcredit level. And that's where we work. It is not surprising that colleague Šuštersič asked the most questions at these presentations whether this law would be enforced. Since this law on the stabilisation of the banking system in Slovenia will not be implemented, you can adopt the budget, you can adopt the pension law and so on, we will not come to the other side of the river, we will not swim it, it will collapse. All of these five strategic steps are crucial, they are linked, if one is missing, we will have great problems. And time is short — by the end of the year. It's very serious. And these consequences that we are talking about are not consequences for the country as some imaginary entity that can borrow or not borrow, and we will live the same way. The consequences are specific for each of us, will be known on salaries, on pensions, on social transfers, on family allowances, on [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u39	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. We turn to questions from Members of Parliament and Members to Ministers and Ministers. The first question will be raised by Mrs Tamara Vont, Minister of Finance Janez Šuštersič and Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u40	Thank you very much. After what I heard in the presentation of the budget or Minister Šuštersič, I think this suspicion is even more reasonable – about the media that is getting on your nerves, and about journalists who are supposed to be worried only about their own good. I don't know how you can take on the role of a judge. I understand that the power of power is the sweetness that is hard to resist. Journals are, we will probably be united, in the public interest of society, and are key to helping to realize the constitutional right to information. Therefore, for newspapers, a measure such as the reduced VAT rate, as it has been so far, is justified, if you remember two years ago we even talked about a zero rate, which many European countries followed today, most of them would be almost a fugitive with an increase. Then came the crisis, which has become an excuse for many things, and also for this reduced VAT rate to rise to 20%, which would mean little for the budget, but much on the other hand would mean the destruction of newspapers and magazines. As a result, of course, forgiveness, as a result of unemployment, you know how it goes. [[...]] Or if I sum up the word of Mrs Labe of the European Magazine Media Association: "In Brussels, we are trying to maintain the possibility of reduced VAT rates in print media, and this is an opportunity that we are trying to extend to electronic media as well." And before we go beyond this emotional sea, the facts are gross or facts. Both journalists' associations are opposed to doing so at the expense of quality, at the expense of information, which is contrary to the practice of the European Union. First of all, the smaller local media would fail, for example on television you were here very, very, very much, open-hearted, while in newspaper media the matter is quite different. In the middle term, of course, there would be big companies here. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia also strongly opposes the increase in VAT. They would also suggest that the expected impact at national level would be virtually null and void. Economists also believe that the spoils would be minor, especially compared to the problems and the revolution. But you're even in the coalition, and that's what we've heard from these same electronic and newspaper media. I ask both ministers quite simply: Do they still insist on raising VAT for newspapers and magazines? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u41	Who's first? Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u42	I sacrifice myself for that answer. Thank you for asking. As I said in the introductions, this is not something you would suggest at this very moment, one or the other Minister. Even worse, this proposal was sent to the National Assembly by the Government and, as far as I know, the Government insists on this proposal. However, what I have also said in the introductions will take some time to discuss taxes and there may also be some changes. Let me answer some of the things you said on the question. I did not take in my opening address the right to judge, I said it was my personal opinion, I also said what it was based on. I think that everyone can also create their own opinion whether it was justified or not. I'm glad you're referring to international interest associations. Every time we want to make any change in Slovenia, whether justified or not, they come forward and bring in interested associations. We've seen a lot of this. I don't know one tax that could have been imposed without the one who would have been charged by that tax objecting to it. Perhaps the only such tax would be an intelligent quota or something, since everyone would gladly admit that they have higher taxes than others. Otherwise, we are in a situation where we need to gather budgetary resources somewhere. We have proposed certain measures. In my introductory address, I have also expressed the advantages and weaknesses of these measures that we have proposed, as well as of others about which we are talking. None of them are able to say 100% that they will not have any harmful consequences. However, I would suggest that when we talk about these consequences, we are still somewhat dosed or balanced when we talk about these consequences. Let's say it's a 10 percent incentive or something like that, if this tax were to be fully priced, it means maybe a dozen or more euros in a copy of the newspaper. I don't think it would lower the demand for newspapers and magazines so much that this industry would collapse or anything like that, which we've been listening to lately. We also listen to the fact that there will be no spoils because so many fewer newspapers will be read. I took five minutes, I really didn't need them anymore, and I made in Excel one very simple calculation, which is valid for everyone and not just for newspapers, applies to anyone who has an increase in the VAT rate from 8.5% to 20%. When would it have been that the increase in taxes would have prevented us from having any more revenue in the budget? At a time when, as a result of this increase in prices, the sales of this article would fall by 60 %. This can be recalculated very quickly. I think that all those who say that there will be virtually no profit have done this calculation, because I don't know who can claim that because of a dozen or two-tenths of a cent, selling these newspapers, which are supposed to be so useful and spreading the power of public opinion, would fall by 60%.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u43	Thank you. Does the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport want to continue? Please, Dr. Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u44	Thank you very much. The honourable Member of Vont knows precisely that she has raised some inaccuracies in her question. She wrote in double whether the ministers still insist on the proposal to increase VAT rates for newspapers, magazines and other periodical publications. The honourable Member knows exactly that our ministry has sent reservations to the Government, and he also knows that there has been a debate in the Government that the Government has sent this law to Parliament. And if she accidentally wants me and Minister Schušteršič in Parliament to continue that debate from the government, I have to disappoint her, we will not give her this play. The law is now in Parliament and you will discuss it with each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u45	Mrs. Tamara Vont, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u46	It was a mistake. We use doubles so rarely here that sometimes it's a little too much to show up. I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, if that's what I've been hurting you with. It wasn't my purpose at all, you know it wasn't. I don't know, Minister Sušteršič, you're a representative of the government or you're not. You're saying the government put this in parliament. Now I don't know if you're on trial or if you're a body like Luna on Earth, just a satellite orbiting the government. I don't understand that. And what you're saying is that you have a calculation for everyone, even for the increased VAT on newspapers, I don't know the man in the world, and I don't think anyone knows him or anyone who has any calculations for everyone. That's not how you get it. The crisis in the newspaper industry is not only a matter of economic crisis, but we know that it is a thing that has been going on for several years and is not directly related to it. But it is true that the economic crisis, as well as the recession, in the field of the newspaper industry, has affected them the most. So we'd expect some systemic solution. We know that this government is very much in favour of systemic solutions and systemic laws. So we would expect a systemic solution, not a system funeral service. It is so difficult to avoid the feeling that there is, in fact, another battle of great war to limit public expression and undermine the intellectual social sphere, which is critical to the Government, I sum up. I wonder, once again I would really ask for an answer: What European country did you follow – because it is not? Why don't you replace it somewhere else? For example, by restricting admission to higher schools, a fictitious entry where the system is made, you do not implement it by coming from Afghanistan, let's say that I give these cases, forgive Minister Hojs, and maybe there's something else. Let's say drones. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Maybe a complementary answer. Dr. Mark Turk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u48	I would like to explain only that part of your question, including the first part that referred to the super-reduced or zero rate of VAT on newspapers. In this regard, some of you are operating in these debates, some of you have operated on this in pre-election programmes. This train took off when Slovenia joined the European Union. At that time, like some other countries, they could negotiate for a zero VAT rate for newspapers. So we didn't. And that is not what Slovenia or any other European country can do now.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Also Minister Sušteršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u50	I'd like to explain around these astral bodies the calculations for all necessary. Look, I just said because your question was whether the minister still supported it. I just said, of course I still support it, otherwise this proposal probably wouldn't be, I wouldn't put it on the government, and the government probably wouldn't support it. I just wanted to say that I'm not the only one who suggested it in the National Assembly. But I've made several arguments. As for the question of calculations, look, it's a very simple calculation. And you say, if the price is so much, and the tax is as much as the tax I get if I raise the rate, and how much the sold amount must fall so that I don't get any more taxes. This can be done very quickly, I can show you. It's a very simple matter, and it's true every time you raise a tax. But it doesn't apply to anything else, does it?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Minister. Would you like another word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u52	Yeah, we can count. If I understand, you have sent one proposal to the National Assembly that is uncoordinated. At least that's what it sounded like. I don't know, your Secretary of State Zivkovic says one thing, Mr Virant said something else on Val 202, then we have another third version, so it's very difficult to follow what's really going on. But we'll probably see it now in the National Assembly. And before I kindly roll up this paper and go for a New York bouquet and a hairdresser, I would like to ask for a discussion under Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We will decide on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. Now it's time to ask the question of mags. Majda Potrat, who will question Minister Gigi Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary, ministers! "The best students in recent years think only about how they will flee abroad. In countries that have decided to cope with the crisis with the development strategy, they have extraordinary opportunities." I quote this by Dragan Mihajlovic, the first Slovenian winner of the European Research Council project award for recognised experts. The number of young people leaving is, in his view, terrible. It's only supposed to leave about 8,000 this year. It seems that those who run state policy are unaware of the consequences of their conduct. More. The brain escape is even denied. There was also no exceptional resistance to the novel on higher education in the public presentation of opinions. In their opinion, the novel has good public support. They took note that some favored them and others did not. Although neither the Minister nor the Director of the Directorate have been in the Chamber continuously, this is only a confirmation of their ignorance and arrogance. In view of the comments of students and students in the public presentation of the opinion that public higher education is becoming less accessible, that the proposed method of appointing the Board of the National Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Quality in Higher Education allows the politicisation of higher education, that the quality of the study will deteriorate as a result of allowing for the entry into force of foreign higher education institutions whose documents on the completion of studies in Slovenia will not be publicly valid, and that the studies will be plausible to me, Minister: How does the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport involve students in the preparation of normative acts and other decisions in the field of higher education? What was heard in the public presentation of opinions shows whether you are not listening or not involved or that you have failed to convince them. However, I am interested in how they are involved in the process of preparing documents because it was already at Zujf that something was coordinated with the Student Organisation, and later it turned out that it was not coordinated with that Student Organisation. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u55	Here you go, Dr. Mark Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I'll start at the end. Zujf was, of course, coordinated with the Student Organisation, despite the many pressures, the political pressures that the Student Organisation received to join the frontlines of those who opposed it. But of course, the student organisation had very clear interests, why she supported Zujf, why she also supported the budget rebalancing. Because the student population is very well aware that if this country continues to be unrestrainedly indebted, it will be those who will repay this debt. In view of the fact that you have attributed to me, in your debate, as a columnist in the daily newspaper, guilt or responsibility for brain draining, I must tell you that our ministry deals with the development of the brain of young people – from kindergarten to doctoral study. And as far as I'm concerned, this brain drain happens after they graduate when they get their doctorate. And of course all of you here can ask yourself what you are doing, what you are already doing and what you will do to make Slovenia a country that will be more favourable to young people, which will give them more opportunities in the field of entrepreneurship, employment and so on. The reforms that this government is trying to implement in this mandate, in particular pension legislation reform, labour legislation, a more favourable environment for entrepreneurship, are the things that will keep young people at home, not the law on higher education, which you have also incorporated into this issue, and about which you have completely baselessly claimed that I or my director have not been in the Chamber at all times. At least one of them was in this House the whole time. And believe me, the debate was long, the opinions were broad. At least one of them was here all the time and was monitoring what you, your colleagues, colleagues and guests had to say. So the relationship was by no means ignorant, but we listened to all the arguments. As regards cooperation with the Student Organisation of Slovenia. They received one of my first visits as minister outside our ministry. We met regularly before the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on student issues began or formally became operational. Despite some different ideas, we have maintained its independence, so we have not connected it together into the world for youth issues, for which both young people in general and students are grateful. This is how we met about Zujf, we met and also exchanged conflicting views on the amendment of the Higher Education Act. The Student Organisation also participates in crisis coordination, which we are leading with regard to the 2013 and 2014 budget. We are convinced that students are, in fact, parties to our system who are beneficiaries of the education system, who have the same rights as buyers in trade. They must be treated in accordance with that proverb: The buyer is the king, so the shareholder we have in our discussions is, of course, very much taken into account in our preparation of laws. And what may be essential, even in the previous debate, are these students, these young people who are now getting an education, they will pay from their salaries the interest and debts that we or we have done in the past. That is why their voice is very important.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u58	Thank you. I would ask you to answer those who ask them, not to other debates. You've also told me once when you've been answering me that I'm the only one who's talking about the establishment of new universities, and no one else is. From the magnetogram of Public Presentation of Opinions, read the opinion of Dean Janez Polh, who is, I read, "see himself in the future at the upcoming University of Novo Mesto". I'm not Janez Polh. How you listened and how you did not listen is also recorded in the magnetogram when you left the public presentation of your opinions. But given how you hear what people say to you and how you act to what you say, let me just read from your magnetogram: "One of these was brain drain. People from Slovenia leave because Slovenia does not open up enough opportunities. Also because the labour market is too closed for them. The brain drain is because there is no opportunity in the economy," I have really left out little text in the middle of it, "I don't know how to be more uncritical," I stress the uncritical, "the financing of the public sector has helped in this, unless, of course, the only ambition of young people is to be employed in the public sector. I hope that's not the only ambition." And that's true. Your statements, your records as well as the Director of the Higher Education Directorate show that you are establishing a parallel world, parallel infrastructure, because the public sector is something that needs to be put out. If we are just looking at how many services are provided by graduates in the public sector, then employment opportunities must also be open in the public sector. And you lock them up with all these measures. I don't know who you're talking to or who you're not talking to, but I don't think there's been a public statement. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u59	Complementary response. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I don't know, Mrs. Potter, the chronic evidence, although I don't know exactly why, but it should be a chronic proof that I'm not telling the truth that the ministry is not talking about the establishment of new higher education institutions, it should be that some Mr. Janez Polh mentioned it. In Slovenia there is freedom of speech, everyone has ideas, interests are different, ambitions are different. I told you to make sure it is documented that the Ministry has not taken any steps in this direction. Not that those steps a priori were wrong, but it didn't make them, and all your false accusations on that account will not change anything. Yes, the magnetogram shows when I left the meeting. The magnetogram also shows when the Director of the Directorate, Mr Rončevič, left it and this last hour is the same time as the meeting ended. So your observation that we ignored any debate that we did not attend and so on is not true. I had one more urgent obligation, I think I accepted a foreign minister or something like that, and I took a lot of time to discuss this issue in Parliament as well as, of course, to consult on stakeholders. Even what you quoted from the magnetogram, I am very pleased that it is something very similar, as I also said here, that I am consistent in my opinions, that I am consistent in thinking. The brain drain, honourable Member, will not be solved in Slovenia by creating jobs for the brain in the public sector.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Would you like some more procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u62	I am gradually proposing that we hold a debate on the response of Minister Žiga Turk to my question, because in no way did he answer what I asked him, but at the same time he put in his reply, if I do, then the Minister also intervenes in his response to the statement, not to some Janez Polh, but this is Dr. Janez Polh, who, by the way, is a dean of the Faculty of Information Studies in New Town, whom the Director of the Directorate for Higher Education knows very well. That's not exactly how it floated and I demented you, Mr. Minister, that I'm not the only one talking about it if we're going to do this. I know that we have had a public presentation of the opinions on the amendment of the law, I know that we will also have a hearing, a general discussion of this law, but I doubt that anything in the bill will change. If I listen to the answers of the members of the government, Ivan Janša, this goes on principle: the government has accepted and the parliament will decide what will change with the amendments. As far as I know, they have not changed anything so far as the opposition wanted, and in the end, the law will be as it was passed in the government. But it's not a minor question. This is a very important issue and should therefore be discussed. The participants in the public debate asked me what I thought would be the effect of the public debate. And I told them about it like I told them now. And let me quote something from the magnetogram to see if I'm saying something now that's twisted out of the vine or not. Mr. Minister said before he left, "I agree that science and higher education are not a smart first point in saving. And, of course, I also listened to today's debate, or in terms of how useful the argument was to ensure the best possible funding for science and higher education. And we have also heard some of this mainly from colleagues from art colleges, music and so on, some general phrases, but really useful was little." If we are so incomprehensible to the opinion of the professional public, then the words of ignorance and arrogance are justified. And, Minister, it is true that every school costs something, only why we should pay the price for the Minister's school for higher education, science and culture and with them all who care about the public interest. That is why I think we need to hold a debate on the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u63	We will decide on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. We continue with the question of Mrs Alenka Jeraj. He has a question for the Minister of Infrastructure and Mr Zvonk Černač's premises.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the ministers! Mr Minister, at the end of July this year, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act, which repealed the provisions of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, which also concern subsidised transport for pupils and students. Now this law has been in force for almost two months. I want to know: What are the effects of changing or introducing subsidised transport for students and students? Are we recording more transports? We know that the difficult financial situation for many families is and certainly such a subsidy is important for these families. What's the savings?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u65	Thank you for asking. Answer, Minister Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u66	Thank you for asking. Good-bye, everybody! Surely this change has positive effects on several segments; it also seems important to me that we have managed at the level of three ministries, the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and at the level of our Ministry to unify views in these very difficult times, at a time when we are facing serious financial problems, and that, despite the need to save in all areas, we have managed to focus on this segment in the past, particularly in the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport and at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, at an amount of approximately EUR 40 million, as addenda to scholarships, in this public transport, and thus somehow to strengthen, to popularise public transport mainly among young people, among young people. However, we have achieved another important effect through this measure, namely that somehow we have equalled the costs of education to those students and students who do not live in metropolises, especially in the city of Ljubljana, somehow to those who live in the city itself. I think that this is also very important in the light of these debates, which we have been listening to for some time now, and even today about how resources are shrinking in all segments, how this government does not support education and education and so on. Of course, it supports and one of the measures on this path is this measure as regards the subsidised ticket. In comparison, let's say a student or a student who goes to school every day from up to 60 kilometres away to come to this place every day and then drive to the city, specifically Ljubljana, pays EUR 20 per month. Earlier, he had paid over 150 or up to 180 euros per month, which means that the family budget of this student, this family, at annual level, was burdened somewhere with thousands of EUR 500, if we assume that two of them are in the family, that is to say, about 3,000 euros less at annual level. It seems important to me that we have introduced this at a time when restrictive situations prevail and that these funds, which we used to spend largely, if I say so simply, have turned into petrol vapours in passenger cars in order to devote themselves to public transport. We estimate that with some additional measures, we will be able to provide a significantly larger volume of these transports by means of funds which have been earmarked so far. I have already said once that we are counting that somewhere between five and ten percent there could be an increase in this amount, with the number of students and students benefiting from public transport increasing by more than 50% compared to last year. In September of this year, 43,000 students and about 20,000 students benefit from public transport for school, says 63,000, during the same period last year, only about 30,000 students and students benefited from public transport. In doing so, it must be said that the use of urban transport has increased significantly, about 15,000 students and about 15,000 students benefit from urban transport, mostly in Ljubljana. However, last year all those students and students who did not have a permanent residence in the municipality of Ljubljana had to pay a significantly higher ticket price for the use of urban transport than students and students who had a permanent residence in the Municipality of Ljubljana. This is somehow the first step towards integrated public passenger transport, where we expect the project to be completed in 2013 and introduced in 2014 in such a way as to enable the most friendly public transport service through appropriate means of transport, as well as through appropriate transport infrastructure, and in particular in such a way that someone using public transport can combine transport with train, bus and other means of transport with the same ticket. Here we also plan to include one part of the segment in the same way as now in the population of students and students in public transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has a question for the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs mag. Andrea Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister! The Minister of Finance is a happy man. At least that's how I could understand it today, because it's always got a smile on its face, because it turns out to be an obviously good host, because in different areas it's going to save so many and so many millions of euros in the coming years, of course. And I say that today's session, after all, has started tragically. The opening presentation of the budget sounded more like the murder of a social state, a just and solidarity state. We'll charge people extra, we'll tax them, we'll lower wages, we'll cut pensions. And let me touch the pension receipts, given that my question of letters concerns it. The Prime Minister promises a stable and just system that will be in line with the present time — that is, saving. It started with Zuiff. At that time, you intervened dramatically and unevenly in the rights of pensioners for an indefinite period of time. You've also reduced some of your pensions to 30%. Among the pensioners you have reduced their pensions, most of them were those who spent part of their working life in the former SFRJ. The second largest group of beneficiaries are NOB fighters, about 7 000 500 of them, followed by former refugees, interns, military insurers, beneficiaries, 240 users of exceptional pensions, and so on. There are 27 thousand 180 of these people. With the proposal for pension reform, you will complete the cleaning. "Cleaning," said under the nod. From the pension box to other budget users you will transfer all these controversial pensions – according to your assessment of the contested pension, because after the new pension will no longer be defined as something that belongs, but as a social correction that ensures a decent life at the age. This is where I ask you: Where does a decent life begin and end? Is it possible to understand your predictions that expenditure in these categories of pensioners has nothing to do with social adjustments or solidarity, as a projection of the final deletion of all rights granted under the applicable legislation of the past, which has been a sign of a struggle for a just, independent and successful country for many of these people? I also ask you: How will you treat these people in the interim period – you have taken a year of time after the new pension legislation to finally reconcile pensions for those people who will be in different ministries, as it were said, as some kind of social adjustment?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u69	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u70	Your Honor, thank you very much for your question. With the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, we want to return the pension to a status based on the contributions paid. So the status of justice earned by the past work. It is very important that we understand pension as a right arising from pension and disability insurance. In the past, rights were granted within the pension system, which did not have a basis on the contributions paid to the pension fund, from which these rights were also paid. And that meant a derogation from the basic principle of the pension system, that's from the principle of insurance. In most cases these rights were not in the function of ensuring solidarity, neither intergenerational nor intergenerational, but rather in the function of granting rights to individual social categories. The Public Finance Balance Act has only reached out to average pensions. That's what they say, pensions over €622. And it's not true that this has anything to do with the murder of a social state. Once again, none of the pensioners or those who received any individual rights under EUR 622 were subject to any intervention. With this measure, we also want to ensure in the long term greater transparency of the pension fund and also greater motivation after payment to the pension fund. Only if we also implement the pension fund as something that is in terms of insurance for the case of age and comes out of work can we believe that people will also be motivated to pay. However, if any authority is invented to add or expand a category of people who receive money from this title, it undermines the stability of the pension system. It is precisely with the aim of motivating contributions and with the aim of ensuring long-term financial stability that everything that has been legitimately and formally granted as a right must be excluded from the pension system. So separate from the pension system. Even now these rights are granted in different laws. Not in the Retirement and Disability Insurance Act, but in various field laws. And at this stage, we, with paragraphs 161 and 408, of the Proposal for a Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, only want these rights to be regulated in specific rules and that the budget items intended for the financing of these rights are also ensured in relation to the area to which they belong. It's not gonna be any different this year. We do not interfere with the circle of beneficiaries, nor in the scope of these funds. What happens when individual authorities propose the transfer of these rights to sectoral legislation will be a matter of discussion in this House, as this can only be done by law. These rights are very different and also very indisputable categories of people. We do not deny these rights at all, but we say they have nothing to do with pension and disability insurance. If these are the rights and if Parliament decides to preserve them, they will. Nor do I see any reason at this point to do any kind of panic, but especially to rule now with the law on pension and disability insurance interferes with these rights. One year until the end of the transitional period, everything will be the same as it was now.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Minister. Not everything you said is true. You and Zujf seized and erased pensions for workers who worked in the former Yugoslavia and paid in the pension register. You've been erasing farmers, and last of all, I'm asking you: When it comes to pensions that are supposed to be paid for past work and achievements, do you not find it underestimating to the NOB fighters who are four years old, instead of studying or working and having the opportunity to pay into the pension fund, have given their head to fight for their homeland, free and successful home? You deny these people justice. I'm afraid there's something else in the background. I am sure that, under the new laws, these people will in fact be granted the right to benefits other than pensions, not to be reconciled as pensions, not to be acquired rights, but to be allowed by law to intervene, which means that the purpose of this government is to transfer, rename, and marry these pensions, I will say that the allowable way is also to lower the amount of these so-called, after the new, social transfers. By the way, I would like to draw your attention to the very clear position given by the Ombudsman. He says: "The law can otherwise regulate the way pensions are reconciled with salaries or living expenses, but it must not be directly cut into a given pension by a decision." And you did it. You've already reached a retirement pension with Zuiff. That's why I'm saying that what you're going to do in the pension register is to continue what you did with Zujf, and I'm really afraid that these pensions will be like a social transfer that is bound to the price of €622. This really isn't a decent life.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u73	Complementary response. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u74	Thank you very much, for that additional question. So the Member of Parliament obviously knows more than I know. He already knows what the future regime will be, and there is not a single proposal in this direction. The Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which was also the basis of this question of the Member State, just wants to give a single message, and this is that rights which do not have a basis in paid contributions from pension and disability insurance are said to be part of the expenditure of the budget rather than the pension fund. And it goes through a pension fundload of such transfers, up to EUR 440 million. If we decide in the future to pay all these allowances from the budget, of course, there will be an appropriate budget line at the ministries and I have no objection to the institution being a postman for these rights in the future. However, we need to know clearly that the management of these rights will be part of the policy of the individual department and probably will not be such a carefree decision on these rights. Today, all these rights are combined in a single budget item of the Ministry of Finance, which is approximately 400 million to 500 million. This is the largest budget item. And it is not right that such an imprudent way is also dealt with the entire pension box below. Therefore, honourable Member, let us leave such strong arguments to who will cut into something, and let us leave this moment when such a proposal is actually on the table. We're not dealing with Zuif today. You will probably talk more about Zuyf in this House. We have also, through the coalition, already discussed the proposal for amendments to the Law on the Balance of Public Finances in terms of different treatment and in particular those employees who have worked in other countries and have also paid in pensions, but not in the Slovenian currency from which pensions are now paid. But any other conspiracy against these rights is unknown to me. I say, we are simply moving this through a transitional period at this time of the pension and disability insurance law, but until this is moved, there will be a way to pay these rights as before.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Apparently, there's still a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me give you an explanation first. Minister, these rights are not already being paid from the pension register today, but from the budget. I hope you know that. I say that we need Members and Members to know first what a marriage solution will bring, not when we face the fact and face the fact. Today we should know all the answers to what will be the solution to the pension reform. If you allow, at the Social Chamber, they are very serious about the fact that this new way of erasing from the pension register will bring in an additional 100,000 poor people in our country. I will remind you of the latest statistics that say that Slovenia already lives below the poverty threshold of 20%. You may find it funny, and at this point, I also invite you to be, not the way you originally intended, on Wednesday, 24. 10. When one part of the government decides to visit Zasavje, one of the socio-economically most endangered regions, with more than 17% unemployment, you too have attended this meeting. I will be very happy, and I believe they will also be happy on the Red Cross, like in the Rippers, if you come and visit them and face the situation there. There are poor pensioners and others who face an unworthy lifestyle because their transfers, incomes and pensions are below the poverty threshold. I hope, Minister, that you will come so that you will not attend the Brežica festivities as you originally intended. I apologize for this intermezza, which does not really have much to do with the basic questions sent, but it seems important to me that the Minister is a reserve minister and is also responsible for the resolution of poverty and social pressures of people. And that's part of it. I believe that it is also very justified because, according to my assessment of the law, Zujf, who will be at the hearing tomorrow, as well as the pension reform, further intervenes and reduces the rights of pensioners. In the context of this additional intervention, I ask that, as provided for in Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, an additional discussion be held on the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u77	Thanks for the suggestion. You yourself have found that you have come a little out of the way, but your proposal will still be decided tomorrow as part of the vote. Mr Aloise Potočnik, who has a question for the Minister of Finance, Dr Janez Šuštersič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, the Public Finance Balance Act has also introduced a higher value tax among temporary measures. The tax mentioned in the proposal was a crisis tax, and so you mentioned it today in your initial presentation. However, it has always been followed by an appeal of likeness and a large public, especially media exposure. However, according to the available data, only a handful of taxpayers have landed in the tax box and some procedures for issuing decisions are still ongoing for legal and natural persons. The reason, apparently, is in a small number of units of so-called passive immovable property. I want to know: What will be the estimated revenue from the introduced tax in 2012 and how much will it deviate from the planned amount on the revenue side of the 2012 budget after the rebalancing? Are you assessing that the introduction of that tax has been considered and considered? Is it, however, going to "book" among public concessions primarily to the union? Of course, the question is not meant to contribute to ideological tax themes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u79	Here you go, Minister Suštersitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u80	Thank you for your question. Before I go to the data and just the content of this tax, I would say what you're asking, because we've never hidden it, nor has it ever been said otherwise. We had at a time when we had unions, especially unions, although we did so in the Economic and Social Council, where employers are, too, but the unions were the ones that needed to be more convinced when we were therefore presenting measures to balance public finances, the majority of the measures on the expenditure side were first. The unions then made it very clear that it would be much easier for them to understand, not just them, but people at all, the austerity measures, if they were also accompanied by measures to tax those who are richer or who earn much more. At that time, we at the Government have actually discussed the full list of possible measures that would go against this call. The next time we presented this measure again at a meeting of the Economic and Social Council, it came across a very good response in trade unions. I have always warned in these debates that I understand this tendency towards some kind of tax justice or that people want to see that someone else is also burdened, which they think lives significantly better than they do, but that at the same time these people are so few and so few assets that can be taxed that they will not have very large financial effects. I have also talked about this today, and I am glad that you have listened carefully to me and that we are also facing some loss of illusions about the tax area. All these objections to the various tax proposals in recent weeks have been about slowly learning that taxes are not the right way to find a solution or raise them. And I also think that with the data that we have captured and the actual amount of assets that can be burdened, we will also slowly lose this illusion, that in Slovenia there are some people and that we could solve the financial, fiscal crisis by putting more pressure on those who are supposedly huge and perhaps have more than others. I mentioned a few of these measures earlier. The introduction for two years of a 50% tax rate on income is also one such measure in this round. To this end, we have also introduced these taxes for a limited period of crisis. If I answer your question about this tax. It was introduced for 2012, 2013 and 2014. For 2012, the amount shall be half-quota. Since it was introduced in the middle of the year, we did not feel justified to bear the same burden if it was not introduced at the beginning of the year. What was the purpose of the article of marriage, and also of all these discussions when they were at it, was to burden that property which was not intended to carry out an activity or not to be used in the public service. The idea was to burden those who have invested some of their high income in real estate, which are a luxury that is not used and which does not serve, for example, is not leased, so that someone could live there, there is no economic or business activity in these properties and so on. That was the purpose at the time, and we followed it. Then it turns out that, for the first time, we have a record problem. Now, for the first time, we had to do something to link the records from the real estate register and the tax records so that we could measure this tax at all. This was a very useful exercise if anyone ever wanted to impose a property tax on them at all. And the second time that we started to do this under the law article, it turned out that when we introduced these things, we were expecting about 10 million this year, or that this effect is at the annual level, if I'm accurate, next year when we drop this limit, maybe 15 million. How long are we going to be at the end when all the decisions are made and all these decisions are taken, yes, but we will see. I wouldn't risk any other number than the one with which we then calculated on the basis of the data we had.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Request for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u82	I thank you, especially in the last part, when you mentioned 10 million. The available sources show that the dosage or first decisions issued are somewhere 1.2, I believe, or 1.3 million, but some are still unissued. If I said another term, the elephant obviously turned into a mouse. And there's something else I have to say, and I'm sure this time he's been keeping Excel from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I'll get you a refill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u84	I said 10 million a year, it was an estimate back then. This means that for six months the tax is valued at 5 million, you yourself have said that not all doses have been introduced, have not yet been carried out, so I would have waited until the end of the year for this to be done before certain definitive figures were mentioned. Excel was either mine or my coworkers, and the elephant, as I said, wasn't mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hočevar has a question for the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. Andrea Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings, distinguished ministers! That the organisation and functioning of the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia are not adapted to the current situation in the labour market, we agreed with the coalition parties at the time of the formation of this government. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Secretary-General: What measures are you likely to take, and what will you do in the direction of institutional renewal of the Employment Service? The latter should act as a temporary employer within the meaning of the Agency for Work. The weakness of Slovenia in this area is certainly that we do not have any system or model for forecasting labour market needs, which would also help with education guidelines. The latter is also based on the Council's opinion on the Slovenian stability programme for the period 2012-2015, when we are seeing a poor response of the education and training system to the needs of the labour market. Instead of being targeted at users, to job seekers, the institution and its regional units and individual offices, we have recently been able to read on top of everything that they are focused specifically on themselves. Instead of actively seeking new opportunities for the unemployed, they are working on preparing documentation for the Anti-Corruption Commission. Therefore, I would like to ask, Mr Minister, when and how will you take action on the latest findings of the Employment Service? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u87	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Your Honor, thank you for asking. We have already taken action with regard to the findings of internal control, namely, before the other competent services dealing with the institution, the already-called anti-corruption commission and the police, and we have taken appropriate measures, even though there is an additional explanation of why some of the irrationalities have been committed, we have already ordered them to abolish them and thus have exceeded some of the conduct they have done so far, that they have been more or less successful or unsuccessfully defending themselves and that everything remains the same. But let's leave this part aside, though it's important, but not the most important part. What you have highlighted is very important: the efficiency of the labour market. In the labour market, it is necessary to have a real labour market if we want the institution to be effective, it is a job and a jobless one. If we have an unemployed and there is no job, the institution can also stand on its head, and it will not perform the job, because there is no jobless place to work. Therefore, I think it is very important, when we talk about the efficiency of the institution, that we also talk about the effectiveness of other economic policies in this country and also about active employment policies for the greater employment of the unemployed and at the same time for the creation of new jobs. What has already been done has been done that we have strengthened, we call this the first battle line, i.e. those employment advisors who are working directly with the unemployed, who are trying to do some job-related job-related work for the individual office of the regions or places to actually do some job-related thing. Therefore, it is essential to increase the activity and also to verify the actual activity of an individual unemployed person, whether he is just some number involved here and there, or whether he is actually an active job seeker. We have reduced the time from the application of a single unemployed person to the institution until his first treatment and the production of a certain business or employment plan. With new labour market legislation as well as the Labour Relations Act, we want to further reduce the unemployment trap, i.e. increase the employability of unemployed people also by seeing no more motive in receiving compensation, but rather by accepting employment if this is offered. As a result, we have already reduced the compensation for those unemployed who have been unemployed for more than one year at the Employment Office from 60% to 50% with the new proposal to reduce the remuneration in the first period, i.e. the first three-month period from the current 80% to 70%, and the proposal also prevents compensation chains, which has often occurred in practice. One very important novelty is ahead of us, which is also proposed in the Labour Relations Act and the Labour Market Regulation Act, namely that an individual worker whose work is permanently unnecessary with an employer, the so-called surplus, applies to the institution or informs the institution that he will lose his job, already during the notice period and that the Employment Service is actively engaged in this work at least one day a week even during the cancellation period. In doing so, we want to prevent the worker from losing those few weeks at the beginning of active unemployment in order to start dealing with it, so we want the institution to include it in the proper treatment and records as soon as it knows that it will end its working relationship. Of course, because of more efficient employment, we have also renewed active employment policy measures. Let me mention here one very important measure which has experienced a lot of approval, particularly among young people. This is the so-called first challenge. This is a measure to subsidise the employment of young people up to the age of 26. We also expect pension legislation to make young people more employable by reducing their contributions to pension insurance in the first year and also reducing them in the second year of employment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I'll get you a refill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u90	Thank you, Minister, for that part of the answer. I must say that I am pleased that, with these key reforms that you are preparing, you have also managed to do something in this area. You were talking about internal control, and I hope he'll give the right results and results. And I want to know: What about the external expert opinion of the general efficiency of the employment institution? Will we wait for her or when her results will be available if they are available? You mentioned the first challenge. Certainly a welcome project that young people are looking forward to. And I want to know: Besides, do you have an extra adjutant in your sleeve? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u91	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u92	Of course, we want to upgrade the measures that are being taken that have a positive impact. Therefore, our very important asset in the sleeve is that this so-called first challenge, which is intended to employ young people indefinitely, will also be strengthened in 2013 and 2014 and in several times the amount of resources so far available for this purpose. A very important asset for this is also the new labour legislation that wants to encourage and convince employers, through a smoothing of the rigidity of the fixed-term contract and the individual termination of the working relationship in these cases, by de-barring these procedures, that the conclusion of fixed-term contracts is also more effective for them in a number of cases than the fixed-term contract itself. These are very important and powerful instruments with which we also want to relieve the employment agency. And there's something else. One of these is the deletion of the obligation to publish a job for employers at the institution. Many private employers therefore have only unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles, since they have already chosen a suitable candidate and must therefore respond to offers and not least respond to these offers. On the other hand, we would like to strengthen employment advisers, who have direct contact with the unemployed, at the expense of the central staff and those who set up such and different programmes for the medium and longer future, through certain organisational measures, which are also the result of the wages adopted in the public sector and also in institutions. We are much more direct and we are using active employment policy measures that produce results. One such very important is training in the workplace, which has proved to be effective in the past. Thus, the unemployed are trained in a specific job and with a specific employer, for that is exactly where the exit to employment is seen. Your Honor! True, there is quite a lot to do in this area, but let me finish. If we have jobs and if they are successful measures, and I believe that those in this package, which are also aimed at reviving the economy, increasing the credit activity of banks for economic recovery, if jobs are available, will also be jobs and the situation in this area will be a little more optimistic. However, just for the end, for statistics: the number of unemployed is lower today than were the most optimistic forecasts in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Only Bevk will ask the Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport Dr Žigi Turku.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! The White Paper on Education and Education, published last year, accurately records the development of music education in our country. As he states, the foundation of music education in Slovenia spans centuries into the past and the beginnings of music education, as we know it today, have been present since the beginning of the 19th century. At that time, the first state music school was established at Ljubljana’s capital. In addition to 1882, when the music school and the branch were established in several cities at the Music Matrix, it is particularly important for the boom of Slovenian music school after 1945. From then on, public music education has developed at the basic level into a network that provides an opportunity to develop musical skills for everyone. The development of music education at the primary level was also followed by development at the secondary and high levels. Thus today we have an excellent system of public music education, which is unique on a global scale. Let me add that, in the previous term, we have adopted the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education that protects the network of public music schools, as in cases where the existence of a private music school is at risk, the latter ceases to be co-financed by public funds. In a few more than 50 public music schools, more than 20,000 students and students are now enrolled at the primary level. Investment is an investment in the cultural and economic future of Slovenia. It is therefore understandable the excitement caused by budget preparers for the coming years by the release of the music education funding line in the first texts and the speculation about the intentions of the privatisation of public music schools. The entry for activity in music schools is, however, set out in the budget documents to be considered in the coming days, but, compared to this year, more than EUR 5 million or more than 12%. In view of the above, I ask the distinguished Minister Dr. Giga Turk: How will the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport provide conditions for quality and accessible music education in the future? Thank you very much in advance for your reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u95	Dr. Turk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u96	Thank you so much for asking. I think that some excitement about music education has actually caused some purely technical operation of the Ministry of Finance, which, as you have rightly found at the end of the day, has been eliminated and the music school has received approximately the same cuts as the school. You have correctly observed that in the Republic of Slovenia there are some over 50, exactly 54 public music schools, with 13 branches, 103 distributed departments and 12 private music schools. From this year onwards, the private office, the Music School Avsenik, for example, in Begunja, Gorenjska. These private schools have a contract with the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport with the financing of activities. In total there are 66 music schools in Slovenia. About 25 thousand 500 students are enrolled in the study. Of these, about 20 thousand 700 attend individual education, and a little less than 5,000 attend group preschool education. If we looked at about a percentage, then a good 15% of all primary schools are also included in music schools, which would mean that we could estimate that this is probably one share that has a sense of listening. In short, some cuts or savings in terms of saying that too many children are enrolled in a music school are simply not sustainable. We think that this system is truly good, that this system is needed and we are working to maintain it in the same proportion as it has been so far. Of course, this part of education will also suffer, if I say so, about the same percentage, about the same percentage of reduction as education at all. We at the Ministry do not agree on the logic that music education is about something that is personal, something that parents can pay for themselves in full, but it seems to us that this is really one good practice that allows children to have very quality extra-school activities and everything that music can give the development of young people and the expansion of their horizons. It's also a way of ending your thoughts.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Thank you, too, Minister, for your answer. As far as I know the situation, there is no record of high-level music education. In a public presentation of opinions on the proposed amendment to the Higher Education Act, we have heard about the problems they face at the Academy of Music. Students, professors and dean have shown an alarming state: there are no plates missing on xylophones, marimbas and vibraphons, there are no strings broken at the basses and harps, there is no money to accommodate pianos. That the inadequate spaces in which the educational process is taking place and the non-implementation of the prescribed ones, that the inadequate spaces in which the educational process is taking place and the failure to deliver the prescribed lectures are the consequences of the reduced funding, I am not even talking about. Due to the unsustainable academic conditions prevailing at the academy, students at your ministry have been asked to respond to them by the beginning of November, how and when you will start solving their financial and spatial problems. What answer can they expect, Minister? Maybe a little more government listening, because you know that saying: a little money, a little music. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u99	Please answer this supplementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u100	Thank you very much. It was true that this presentation of opinions, which was heard about these problems in this high-level assembly a week ago in relation to higher education. I also spoke to the dean of the Academy of Music a few days earlier, who actually presented to me the pressing problem of this member of the University of Ljubljana. In doing so, however, it must be said that there is one major difference between whether there are problems that the primary music school has in its entirety, the problem that a primary or secondary school would have, and the problem that a member of a university or higher education organisation has. For the state finances a higher education or a higher education organisation in a piece. This means that, for example, the University of Ljubljana, the University of Maribor, the University of Copenhagen, receives funds in a piece and divides them individually according to their rules among these members. In this debate, there was an idea here that the Ministry would develop intervention measures that would then target those members in those areas of higher education where there are particularly major problems. And these problems occur, especially in those studies that are above average expensive, which require a lot of individual work and music studies is such a study. You can't have exercises so that the teacher in the classroom is fifteen, twenty, thirty people at the same time playing the piano and practicing, but all the teaching is of course individual. Of course, this approach is contrary to the principle of the autonomy of higher education, which he wants or at some point wanted to get the money in a piece and then share it autonomously. We will primarily solve this problem by talking to the rectors, by trying to reach some understanding for them, perhaps differently, by different rules than ever before, to share funds among colleges, where there is a mass study, where there is not a year after a few hundred students, where there are several hundred students, and during studies that are very individual and of course also deserve our attention. We will address the problem very carefully, or it is important that we also address it when we write a law on the financing of higher education, where we will have to take very carefully into account, which are those national important studies that have few students, and yet deserve to finance professors, assistants, faculty departments and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič has a question for the Minister of Finance, Dr Janez Šuštersič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! We know that the implementation of the law on measures to strengthen the stability of banks is still in the air. There is a real possibility that the law, due to possible rejection in the National Assembly, will not be enforced at all tomorrow, or because of the call for a referendum already announced. I ask you as the competent minister: Do you have an alternative, or do you have a reserve scenario, and how you will ensure, within your powers, such management of bad claims in banks, whether directly or indirectly, that state ownership does not result in a further reduction in capital adequacy? Therefore, because of the possibility that the law will not be enforced, I would warn you that some banks are in the form of a New Ljubljana Bank, in direct and direct state ownership, selling liabilities or insurance of bad loans in the form of fixed shares. I consider the latter actions to be unreasonable and harmful because the low prices they achieve at auctions continue to weaken capital adequacy. I believe, however, that banks should not wait for the schedule of the above-mentioned complications and that they should start by actively managing bad claims, namely by trespassing on the ownership of borrowers, co-management and not least by rescheduling their liabilities at very low prices. Most bank experts also point out that banks should not wait to manage bad claims because they do not need law. They can do it today. The latter seems incomprehensible to me because both the administrations and the supervisory councils of the banks that were responsible for mismanagement in the past have been replaced by you on behalf of the owner, so your people are there, and can actually manage better than they have in the past. This summer you carried out an unfortunate recapitalisation of the largest system bank, but it appears that the last recapitalisation was not sufficient for the bank to not have to sell claims or insurance. Some bank experts estimate that the New Ljubljana Bank would need up to 500 million recapitalisation to strengthen stability and that the transfer of bad claims to the so-called bad bank would not be necessary or necessary. The same applies, of course in an inappropriately lower amount, also for the New Credit Bank Maribor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u103	Dr. Schustersch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u104	Look, I'll take my turn. First of all, I believe this law will be enforced. I've read the exact arguments of the State Council. I think the arguments are very similar to those of people who spoke about the referendum. I think that these arguments are largely due to the misunderstanding of what this law entails, even though we have explained this many times. But I understand it's something that's new to us. But we'll do our best to explain. We hope the referendum doesn't happen. What you mentioned is one of the reasons why we think that the solution we have proposed in this law is better. The bank, you know, has no insurance to sit on. The Bank shall have insurance to sell them and shall, if it does not receive payment of the loan, receive payment at least partially of the sum of the insurance. That's why he's got insurance. And when a bank finds itself in a situation where someone doesn't repay a loan, no one can blame it if they try to get at least a partial payment by selling the insurance. And the owner who would ban it from the bank would, in my opinion, be the owner who would load things that are not in the interest of its business. Of course, this can create a lot of problems, especially the problem that we call a credit crunch, and the pressure to cash these things quickly, that credits try to get back as quickly as possible, that there is no room to say so, for some reprogramming, which you have also talked about. So we said, let's put this somewhere else where it can be handled differently. At the same time, I would warn you, although I believe that this is difficult to understand, but here on the one hand we always hear big words about what the Minister of Finance should do as a representative of the owner. First of all, the country is only one of the owners and does not have any more responsibilities or responsibilities as owner than the NCBs or any fund co-owner of the New Credit Bank Maribor, or any small shareholder who bought the stock on the stock exchange. You need to be aware of that. In addition, we have a banking law that also speaks of bank secrecy. Even the owner can't come to the bank to look at credit cards and load up what to do. Even less so can the Minister of Finance. Here we have this problem, that on the one hand our position looks very strong, we are owners, we are government or a minister, people think we can do anything and order anything to anyone, and of course you know it's not. And that's also why this state property is something that's paradoxical. On the one hand, you have a lot of responsibilities, they point to you, the other owners hide behind us, let us recapitalize, and they retreat. For example, we were informed by the owners of some bank, which has been quite recently said that they do not have money to recapitalise, and also very "flegma", the Bank of Slovenia, who is the first to be responsible for what is happening in the banking system, has informed us that if they do not have money, we must have – government, budget, taxpayers. I think that logic is just as flawed as I can see it seems to you. Therefore, one of the measures envisaged in this law, which we have advocated, is the reduction of this state ownership. And if you ask me, even if it wasn't there. It causes problems themselves, false expectations and so on. On the other hand, we have regulators. We have Banka Slovenije, which can view any credit map, can look into any business the bank does, any insurance, and has information about it. It's been four years since someone could have ordered banks to do, say, bad banks inside themselves, what they were doing. I could impose different management on them, I could impose measures on them, including replacing administrations and so on, but this has not done much or at all. We'll do our best if this marriage falls down to do what we can. But we will have virtually all the tools that we have in our hands if this law is not adopted and we will be able to do virtually nothing except maybe recapitalise again with tax money. It's practically the only option we'll have left. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] There's money in a hole. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u105	Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u106	Thank you. You just said that private owners of banks say they don't have money to recapitalise, and in fact, the country will also deal with the bad bank as far as that is concerned. As far as the Bank of Slovenia is concerned, however, the Bad Bank of Slovenia Act, as I understand it, has somehow been cut off in controlling the management of poor capital investments. Otherwise, Minister, in Positive Slovenia, we do not oppose measures to strengthen the stability of banks. We believe, however, that you have chosen as taxpayers the most expensive possible solution, which, as a result, will also have an impact on fiscal sustainability. Earlier, when Mr President of the Government spoke, he said, "The resolution of the banking system does not bring significant changes or solutions unless we improve the economic situation at the same time." The sustainability of public finances cannot be ensured without a healthy economy, so, Mr Minister, our economy needs an infusion today, directly into the vein, because tomorrow it can be too late. You can cure the patient, but not the dead anymore. Mr Minister, let me remind you that this spring, at the time of your appointment, you claimed that the euro would not contribute to the resolution of the capital adequacy of banks in direct and direct state ownership. And then you came from zero even to 4.5 to 5.5 billion euros. Nice! That means up to 5.5 is right there, maybe another 100 million, and we're already on the Maastricht criteria. This is said to block everything that it is in this mandate, and then we can really accept it, and then we don't have to write any more fiscal rules into the constitution, because we will still be blocked. I'm asking for a little clearer explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u107	Here you go, Minister, an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u108	I'd love to. But by the way, if you think we won't need a fiscal rule at the time, now vote for it, it will, and we'll have it now, not just after you say we won't need it anymore. As far as the bank's concerned, it's kind of like that. Yeah, I'd be very happy if you didn't have to put the taxpayer's money in the banks anymore, and I was saying that because I believed you wouldn't have to. However, it turns out that it is not so coincidental that the NCBs began to withdraw when they became slowly known the results of a careful review. We don't give money for recapitalisation because we would enjoy it, but because we have some responsibility, which is legally justified, that if no one else does, we ensure the stability of the banking system. The $4 billion you've been talking about. I've explained this a number of times. There are 4 billion guarantees, these guarantees will be given, not necessarily to this extent, this is the upper limit. I have explained many times that these claims will be valued to be here discounts, that they will also not be transferred from all banks. I've explained this a number of times when we passed the law. I also explained that if this is some real economic valuation, but if this company takes a year, when the economic situation is better, then most of it will be possible if not all of this debt is recovered by renewing the insurance and by raising the claims. However, what was necessary and may still have to be paid for the recapitalisation, but we will get from the sale of state shares or part of state shares because we will have cleared banks. And that is this way, too, we have already explained that these accumulated bad claims are concentrated on one company, which can then be a nicer creditor to those companies that are good, but are in charge of helping the private sector to get credit more easily, because their balance sheets will also be improved in one way. That's what we've already explained. And that's what makes us think that this operation can help trigger economic growth. I didn't have a lot of problems, really. Now that I was explaining this story to investors and it seemed credible to me, they were asking even more precise and sometimes unpleasant questions than you. There is only one more thing I would say about the Bank of Slovenia to make this clear. We have not taken completely any powers under this law to the Bank of Slovenia. We said, what's accumulated in the system is an acute problem that we're solving with an interventional transmission. In the Bank of Slovenia law, we did not intervene with this law. About what's going to happen in banks [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] they still have all the powers they've always had, but they still have them. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I'm estimating a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Vice-President, only for taking advantage of these three minutes, because I know that you will refuse me so that you do not comply with my proposal, in accordance with Article 246 and the second paragraph of our Rules of Procedure. Mr Minister, with regard to the bad bank, we are particularly concerned that you have decided on the last solution without adequate data and analysis, we are still not aware of how much claims will actually be transferred, at what prices and to what extent the government plans to cash in the gross claims transferred, or to what extent they will be paid. The so-called "recovery rate" must be shown by every citizen, every craftsman, every entrepreneur to obtain a loan in the bank. What makes you think you don't owe us this? Let me warn you that you are asking us and the citizens to give you a blank bill despite proven inefficiency and failure. You really didn't show us anything. You wrote something on these two sheets, but we can talk about 10 billion values, even if we're only talking about 4 billion. So we're talking billions of euros. However, an entrepreneur who needs a few thousand euros must submit an elaboratory that must contain one hundred pages. Nor does the legal and economic banking profession and the professional public see your solutions as good. With your solutions, we will cover the losses of private owners with state money, which is unacceptable in our opinion. This is unacceptable even after all common sense. In the light of this fact, it would make sense for banks to participate in the resolution of bad claims in a particular part, and thus, in addition to taxpayers, to take on future risks to their remuneration by private owners. This would also be the responsibility of current private owners in addition to the State. In this way, the State or taxpayers, in the event of the cashing of the State guarantees that you have just discussed, could also be paid for the non-compensation of bad claims by increasing the ownership of banks. And this solution would be at least three times lower or more appropriate for us taxpayers than your proposal. In addition, we believe that the adoption of the law in the rehabilitation of banks establishes the concentration of absolute economic power exclusively in the hands of the government without public control. The latter, however, poses a risk that large discount claims will be sold and that only selected buyers will benefit from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u111	Thank you very much. You had a bunch of extra questions, suggestions, comments. And of course you know that under the rules of procedure, the Minister cannot answer these observations. It is true, however, that we will discuss your procedural proposal, if you had it in the beginning, in the context of the vote tomorrow. Let's move on to the debate. The question is raised by Mr Mikhael Prevc, Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigo Turka.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! A year ago, a new law on higher education was adopted, the main purpose of which was to unify records in the field of higher education and to establish a legal basis for the registration and analytical system of higher education. This system is also intended to represent "arms" against the so-called fictitious enrolments of students in higher education institutions, which in recent years have become a true folklore due mainly to the benefits that student status has brought. However, the establishment of a record-keeping and analytical system of higher education does not fully address the issue of fictitious enrolments, as most individuals who are enrolled solely for the purpose of obtaining student status are enrolled in higher schools which will not be included in this system. You are probably aware of the information that more than 170 places of entry in higher education were occupied in five minutes this September, with thousands of young people left at the door. The reason for this is clearly in the position of student work compared to other forms of work which are more favourable for employers and in the non-response of the country which will regulate this area in a European comparable way. In addition to the increased enrolment of young people and few young people in higher education, enrolment in some secondary schools and adult education programmes has also increased dramatically, as student status also allows work through student service. In this case, there are no other benefits provided by student status, but it is somewhat unusual for a person who has already completed secondary education without any verification to be allowed to re-enter the same level of education that the State has already funded. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: What measures will you take to completely eliminate the number of fictitious enrolments of students in secondary and higher education and higher education institutions? Another time. In view of the fact that you have made several assessments in your ministry that there are approximately a third of the students enrolled in Slovenia, I am interested in: What would be the financial impact of the total elimination of fictitious enrolment at all levels of education, according to secondary, higher and higher education? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u113	Here you go, Dr. Mark Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I, while waiting for this question of yours, also looked through some of the OECD data and put two tables on my blog, two pictures that actually say more than a thousand words. Slovenia is, in fact, after how much of the generation is enrolled in some form of tertiary education, probably another in the world – immediately for Poland, if we consider only the domestic population and not the foreign students. With the exception of Turkey, Mexico and Saudi Arabia, we are in the last place when it comes to what part of the generation is really ending. In fact, all that's involved is the students who tried and couldn't do it. Whether this was a fictitious entry or not, of course, it is difficult to interpret. The fact is that as a fictitious entry we define students who have enrolled in higher education according to existing rules, it is meant to obtain education, but not primarily. They signed up primarily to benefit from some of the advantages offered by the student status. The estimate of the number of students enrolled is based on the empirical calculation of the difference between the number of students enrolled and the number of graduates in Slovenia. This one's very big. Before the introduction of the ELV system, this number was between 3,000 and 5,000. This does not mean that 3,000 and 5,000 are fictitiously recorded, but this number should be repeated by the number of years when it is possible to repeat this fictitious entry. That's the first time you've ever signed in, the second time you sign in, you sign up for college, you sign up for high school, and so on. The EES is only beginning to work, it is now being filled with data for the study year 2012, 2013, which means that in the coming month we will be able to carry out control of the use of rights from public funds arising from student status. One step towards the abolition of fictitious enrolment in higher vocational education is also taken by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Vocational Education Act. The proposal to amend Article 41 adds to the restriction so far that a student may exercise the rights and benefits of the status for a maximum of three years, added the rule that during these three years the years already spent in higher education are also considered. This novel is also built on the basis that data from the EES are obtained in order to determine the eligibility of admission to higher education in relation to the use of rights in higher education. The ELV comes into life or begins to live only this year. We also made some changes to reduce this fictitious entry with Zujf, when we limited that additional year that a student can use either to repeat or to pause, to graduate for one year in the first or one year in the second period or at the first or second rate in the Bologna. How much fictitious students cost us is hard to calculate accurately. As I have already said today, we finance higher education in a piece, which means that universities receive money regardless of how many students are enrolled there. We could put them in half, only those who think they're going to end up with the same amount of funds. It is true, however, that it is historical that these funds are also determined according to the number of students, including the number of graduates. If the fictitious entry were to be reduced now, we probably could not in any way reduce the funding of higher education because those professors would still be there, those assistants would still be there and we should be dealing with students who came there seriously to study. One important savings, one important acquisition of this system and the restriction of fictitious entry will, in fact, be that existing teachers will be able to deal more with students who really intend to study within existing funds. However, savings would be made by limiting fictitious entry mainly in the areas of the Ministry of Finance in collecting taxes, in social transfers with colleagues from Visiak, because the fictitiously registered would impose a lesser burden on the various social rights. Thus, we could be calculated to cost between €50 million and €100 million per year.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mag. Leila Hercegovac has a question for the Minister of Health, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well-known ministers, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! Colleagues surgeons and emergency doctors are asking me if patients are going to start operating on our policies. Family doctors wonder why we are not all in the same boat and why more than one contribute. They say that some have been drowning in the bottom of the ocean for many years, while others are already prowling through a troubled sea and others are lying somewhere in a safe haven. The lack of resources in health care will have rapid effects and there will not be enough doctors, good enough care and new methods, and certainly sick doctors and people will die sooner. Of course, the one with no money. Dear Minister, family and other health care providers at the primary level and in hospitals have repeatedly warned you about the adverse decline in health funding, especially in primary health investments. Doctors and other health professionals understand the downsizing of financial resources so far as to be an unfair and unjustifiable measure in the context of public financial consolidation. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister: What is your position on the 2013 and 2014 draft budgets in terms of caring for people or patients and the country and its social development? Thanks in advance for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u117	Minister Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u118	Good afternoon, everyone! Thank you for asking the presidents of the Health Committee. If you ask me about the budget, first of all, I must say that the budget is the one that provides less than 5% of healthcare resources, that it is more than 67% of compulsory health insurance funds, which have no direct connection with the integrated budget, and the remaining 13% of supplementary insurance and 13% of the pocket. When we are talking, of course, about budgetary resources, we are talking mostly about investment money as much as possible. And if, of course, I focus on this investment part first. From 2010 onwards, of course, this investment money for health has been declining, at the expense of the rebalancies that have been implemented in previous years. And if I go to specific figures, in 2010, investment funds fell from 63.7 to 24.4 million, i.e. by almost 40 million euros, for an additional nearly 12 million euros in 2011. This year, we took advantage of the possibility that from the fund where the hospital's amortisation funds are being collected, we were able to continue the investments that have been started. Last year, these funds remained at the expense of bankruptcy of some construction companies. And if I look at 2013 and 2014, we have €35.4 million and €38.5 million of additional investment money, which means more than in previous years. And these are the funds for the most urgent projects needed primarily to complete investments, I am talking about investments in the Clinical Centre, the Cancer Institute in Maribor, the Hematology Department and so on. If I look at local communities, we also partially co-finance certain investments here, but it is necessary to know that this is primarily the responsibility of local communities but not the integrated budget. From the integrated budget, some money is also about medical equipment. Then there is another direction for investments, which, of course, we also make good use of – they are European funds at the expense of energy recovery. Over 30 million euro has been spent here. By the end of 2014, projects, including building permits for emergency centres, were also and are already being prepared. There are €35 million earmarked for 10 emergency centres. And these are investments that will also contribute to the further and better development of health care in Slovenia over the next two years. Now, you asked me about another part, but it's not about the budget, we're talking about lowering the prices of health services, I suppose. And in the following year, 3% less money is actually foreseen than this year. Indeed, in the last few years health care in this way has been at EUR 300 million, but we need to know that, despite all of this, there has been intensive employment in health care, material costs have also increased strongly, and in this year's first six months alone, there have been more than 200 additional jobs in hospitals. And we need to know that on the one hand we always have a gap between what we want and, of course, what we need and what we have. Unfortunately, from last year's to this year's health treasury also went from €41 million in losses or burdens to 2012. And we have, of course, tried to neutralize this as much as possible with the Public Finance Balance Act. Unfortunately, macroeconomic forecasts for this year have also changed, for the second half and for the following year. And we simply know how much money will be available to the health department in the following year, so without a reduction, an additional 3% reduction, specifically for public procurement and a more rational use [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] It's not working. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill? Here you go, mag. He's a duke.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u120	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. For a change from the previous, I am pleased that you have provided accurate data, but I must remind you that the family doctor's union writes to the members of the Health Committee and asks you to think carefully before taking measures to reduce funds, especially for the 3%, because it is impossible to reduce 3% or up to 5 without forgiveness. If you put the analysis on the table, you'll see for yourself. The workload of family doctors is high. In particular, doctors die 15 to 25 years earlier than other Slovene women, and they do not understand that health - care providers are not interested. In fact, we have reduced business costs by 4.7%, 5% on wages. If we take the last two years, you know, 3% and 3, 6 and in total pay 12%, so that forgiveness will certainly be, because it is impossible to do so, a drastic reduction in the cost of medicines, and primarily biological medicines, after the second administrative balance, we know now that you and I both know that the three-step agreement on employment or on business contracts. However, lowering financial resources is a strong method, but it eats up good ideas unselectively and can destroy improvements instead of encouraging them. For too many years in health care, we've dreamed of how best we've ever been and we've missed the necessary development. Now is really an opportunity to capture this moment, where it is possible that this system that we now have is collapsing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u121	Here you go, Minister, a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u122	Before any accusations of false information, I'd like you to make this more specific. I think that's incorrect because I think I'm giving the exact information. Once again, of course, we have a precise amount of funds available, mainly on the basis of the collection of money under compulsory health insurance, and of course the amount of this money is limited. And if, of course, we want to ensure sufficient health rights for patients, then, of course, certain irrationalities, which are still present, must be eliminated. And that's the only goal. We can't create any extra money. Since 2005, the integrated budget has not contributed practically the euro to the health treasury. And, of course, according to the new requirements as they fall, as well as the reference outpatients, which we additionally finance in basic health care, homes for older citizens who are given concessions also burden the health treasury. So I am talking about additional burdens, which even past our ministry are emerging in this regard. On the other hand, you cannot expect that we will not require rational business, which we know is still possible to find a reserve. We know there's a lot of orders going on over public procurement. We know that a lot of things aren't done in day hospitals. We follow a number of directions and so on. So, I say, and I believe there's something else in health. It's not unlimited. Above all, we want the money that comes from the health treasury to be used rationally, because, in fact, some will eventually run out of resources. That's the only purpose. It is not intended to deprive health service providers. Unfortunately, we're in a situation where we can't choose. Inflows to the cash register are getting smaller. This is the real situation that is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u123	You can if you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u124	I will not want a procedural proposal and a public hearing because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u125	I'm sorry, you only have a procedural proposal this time. I think the minister has already responded further. Just a procedural proposal. If not, we'll move on.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u126	The procedural proposal is for the Minister to begin solving health reforms. And it's the system that puts people in a good system and works well. So we really need systemic changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u127	Well, we will take this as advice to the Minister, but this was not a procedural proposal within the meaning of our Rules of Procedure. Let's move on to the debate. Ms Alenka Pavlič has a question for the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u128	I hope you are aware that the crisis in the country with your work and statements is only deepening. We are now in a deeper and worse position than we were when you took over the management of the economic ministry. I wonder if you are a minister in the government or are just a number and your Members are a voting machine in the Janšev government, as I expected more from the SLS Members than to follow the destructive ideas of the Prime Minister, is his destructive goal. You're the Minister of Economy. I'm afraid you don't know what you're doing or what you're saying. I take your word for it. In your opinion, the fall in credit ratings would have stopped if six parliamentary presidents had agreed to support the Golden Fiscal Rule, a change in the referendum regime and the state holding company. I can't help but wonder that this is a rescue for you. Economists warn you, economists warn you, it's nothing to you. At the Ministry of Economy, you have an industrial policy known to Dr. Peter Kraljic, all you have to do is start implementing it. You don't care about that either. You and your government imagine that you can carry out reforms with fear and the nation will give up. Threats to people that there will be no more salary money in December are irrelevant. These are your fairy tales. I'm telling the citizens, the money will be found. These are just the receptions the government wants to control people with. Fear, fear and fear again. I hope that your ministry will monitor the effects of the emergency measures taken at least monthly. That's why I'm asking you: What are the effects? How many new jobs are there? How many did you save? I believe it will be your answer, that it is not yet time for the results of the work to be revealed. We need to know that we are living in real time, and we need to make changes immediately, right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u129	Mag. Crane, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u130	Thank you very much for this question, which was not really a question, but it was a comment. I regret that you do not want to understand the importance of some of the projects that we have all undertaken together, both coalition and opposition. And you don't want to understand how strong these projects are, given the reactions of international financial markets. If we had agreed at that time, as I said, on one of the projects that we had not agreed on at the time, the benefits that are so much being discussed today would have been significantly lower if they were too high and we were in debt with too much profits. Unfortunately, there was no political will at that time, no projects that hurt none of us, no one would hurt nothing, no pensioners, no civil servants, no one else — one golden fiscal rule would hurt us. Just like we do at home in the household, it doesn't hurt to spend as much as we deserve. Unfortunately, it was not the political will to do so because it was simply necessary to adjust. But, okay, we agreed that projects with a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly, unfortunately, will not. And we've focused on what we can do on our own, like the government. Obviously, according to the predictions that they are, these measures will not be able to be implemented because they will be stopped in such a way or otherwise. I think that this is not good for the country, as I said last year, when we supported the pension reform and we were aware that changes should be accepted, as well today or now it will not be good when some projects stop in order to stop the political government, which is now in operation. And I can tell you that many of the effects of the measures that have been taken would have been and will have significantly greater effects if we adopt or implement a bad bank project, if you want to, the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks, or otherwise, if you want to finally get to the banks that will be able to carry out their basic mission and finance the Slovenian economy. If we do not do so, we can take thousands of different measures that will not give this result that everyone would like to see – that is, the start of the activity of the Slovenian economy. Let me touch on some concrete effects, although, of course, an individual measure — you know that — is very difficult to evaluate, but some. In the first package we accepted – so the biggest effects are those we took in the tax area. I will not repeat these measures, which were taken immediately at the beginning, and they provide economic benefits of EUR 180 million, important assets remaining in the economy, so that they can be reinvested in new investments, technological development, improvements, innovation and so on. Then there are important effects that have been adopted by amending the Law on Agriculture and the Law — I do not know the exact title — on state property, municipal property where we went [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] about real estate, thank you very much, where we went to the price of land. [[...]] You know well that the prices of land in Slovenian industrial zones are such that they are simply not interesting for investors. We have done this and have reached a level or allowed local communities to offer legally potential investors for potential investments in industrial zones at some normal prices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u131	Mrs. Pavlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u132	I'm sorry, you're not the Minister of Finance, but you're the Minister of Economy. I asked you how many jobs were open or how many were saved. You said everything else, but not what I asked you. If we look at Friedman's free market model, there was a high tax worldwide, especially on the one paid by the workers. If we just look at what happened in Argentina, we don't need words. If we look at the campaign for the American President, when Bill Clinton himself drew attention to the greatest achievements of this Barak Obama mandate, and under the second point, he said that they had saved General Motors and thus saved a million jobs, you have no idea. I'm concerned that there are no results at the four most important points in your work. Firstly, the state should save businesses and thus jobs, whether private or state. Secondly, the business environment needs to be improved. You are also not successful here, and allow the Prime Minister to intimidate the country and, with his statements, he is failing the country's credit rating, and administrative obstacles and bureaucracy are still known here. Thirdly, an economy with investments in infrastructure projects needs to be launched, with it being necessary to cooperate with a colleague of the Minister of Infrastructure. Social entrepreneurship as a fourth time, co-financing sectors that are not competitive but provide jobs. For example, Germany, through which you like to follow your example, co-finances activities that are not competitive at home but are co-financed by the State due to the jobs of this activity. To quote you: "But surely the times in which we are are are not most suitable for the sale of investments, because market prices are as they are, generally very low." You have sold general shipping and are now preparing SDH, where investments will be sold at a price that is, as a rule, very low as you said. I hope we don't go into that kind of investment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u133	I'm guessing the minister will respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u134	Madam Member, I would expect more respect and no insult from you in particular. That's what I'd really ask. Don't insult people. Okay? Otherwise, if you could give me the question as it is announced, I could offer you information about the employees, but I don't have it right now. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] About the new jobs, I apologize, I could also offer you this information, but you have not asked me this question, so I have no data at my disposal right now and I cannot shake it out of my hand, I am very sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u135	Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u136	People are hungry, torn up and cold. This is not a literary proposal, this is the situation in Jesenica on 20 October 2012, on Saturday at 10 a.m. The market is full of crops, but there are no buyers. Reason? We don't have an economic minister. And you're going to high rhetoric, political games and squid. We need a healthy economy, capable employees, growth, increased competitiveness and 2-3% economic growth. We simply demand employees who will be able to draw money from the European funds where we are awaiting them. You said yourself we don't have one and we don't pump it. Why? You know why. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask for a debate on the economic situation and the management of economic policy in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u137	In fact, you thought about the Minister's response, because it's the only thing we can discuss and decide whether or not to discuss it at all, we will be in the vote tomorrow. Mr Franc Jurša has a question for the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Zvonk Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u138	Madam Vice President, thank you very much. Nice greetings to all the ministers! Given that there have been quite a number of political issues today, I will be specific. I will want the Minister's response to a project that is supposed to run and end in the near future. But I have to say from the outset that I raised a similar question in the first half of the previous mandate to the then Minister of Transport, and it is related to the reconstruction, the electrification of the railway line of Prague-Hodos. In 2009, the State Spatial Plan was adopted. Of course, there is also a need to regulate the level crossings of anti-group measures. This is the largest railway project financed by the Cohesion Fund in the financial perspective 2007-2013. Its implementation is therefore of paramount importance in drawing on European funds. For this reason and because it is the only non-electrified section in the fifth corridor, I ask you to answer me: Will this be possible in time? Will all European funds be available? I would like to remind you that we have been assured that work at the level crossings will begin in the second half of this year, but that is not the case. Only construction works on the track are performed. Please kindly answer the following questions: Is the Ministry of Reconstruction and Electricity Project, including the level crossing arrangements, already purchased all the land with demolitions? And if not, why doesn't he have them? Is all the project documentation produced? When will the final building permits be obtained? But please also answer me as resortary minister and make sure that the project of reconstruction and electrification of the railway line Prague-Hodoš, including the implementation of all level crossings at this section, will be completed in 2015? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u139	Minister Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u140	Thank you so much for asking. Perhaps in the introduction a few words around the whole project modernising railway infrastructure. We have talked about this several times in the National Assembly, but I would like to say that the situation in this area at the time we took over the resort was at a rather weak point in terms of absorption or absorption of European funds. This programme has a percentage of less than 6% at the beginning of this year, but we are in 2012 and next year, as you know, the last period or the last year in this financial perspective 2007-2013. The truth is that after 1996, practically Slovenia did not have a comprehensive programme of investment and investment in rail infrastructure. This is probably one of the reasons why this area was approached in some way by per party, in the same way or where interests were greater, no matter what, but at one of the last meetings of the Government, we have taken concrete measures to accelerate the absorption of funds also on these infrastructure projects. Two of the major ones are the electrification and reconstruction of the railway line Prague-Hodoš and the modernisation of the level crossings. This first project is worth over EUR 300 million, divided into two phases. As you have already mentioned, one phase is already under way and funds are already being used in this part. In the second part, appropriate documentation and project documentation and building permits are also being prepared. The second level transition modernisation project is worth over 100 million euros. Both projects are foreseen for co-financing from this financial perspective. Not all facilities have yet been purchased under the first electrical and reconstruction project. Where they are not bought-in, the issue is in appreciation, some of the major objects where values range between a million and two million euros. We are looking for ways to make rational, cost-effective use of the means to do so. At this section, 86% of the required land is provided for Prague-Ommož. On Ormož-Hodoš section 39%. However, most of the measures are implemented on public rail infrastructure land. Prices and purchases of remaining land are currently under way. It is envisaged that all the land needed for electrification and reconstruction of the track will be purchased by mid-2013. For the needs of the Level Passage Modernisation Project, 20, 21 facilities have been acquired. This is another facility worth more than a million euros, and we are also at this point looking for ways to make the investment as rational as possible. I think that these procedures will not interfere with the possibility that this modernisation project can take place as planned. Complete documentation has been produced for the electrification and reconstruction projects of the railway line, as well as the stages of construction permits for the execution of individual stages. So we are counting on all the permits to be issued during the following year, when this work is supposed to begin. And according to the dynamics, it's supposed to be completed by 31st. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its In any case, these two projects are extremely important in the field of railway infrastructure modernisation, also due to the volume of investments. I must say that the preparation of projects in the past itself did not follow this importance and size, the investment value of these projects. After this review so far, I can conclude that, with a more cost-effective planning and a more cost-effective approach to both projects already at this point, when it comes to the production of appropriate investment and implementation documentation, we could save substantial resources. I think it would be possible to save substantial funds on some other segments as well. But now we're where we are. The aim is to complete these projects fully as planned for co-financing from European Union funds, which means that they will be implemented in 2013, 2014 and 2015.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Jurša wishes to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u142	Minister, I thank you for your answers. Mainly, in this matter, it is a concern, for the first time, that we draw on all European funds, which is crucial. Secondly, I'm worried about it because I hear it's stuck in some annexes. And thirdly, the safety of the people who live on this track is at stake. I was involved in one project where we built the first phase of the railway crossing, specifically in Ljutomer, so that we already have the first phase, but the biggest problem is for rescue vehicles that drive all those patients who are unhappy on this route and the track is permanently closed. These are key questions that must be answered as soon as possible. Still, thank you. This is a concrete project, which must be supported with all its power and work to bring it about in the short term.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u143	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u144	Thank you very much for this opportunity, too, so that I can complete this thought that I have said before. It is certainly one of the major projects in the field of railway infrastructure modernisation, which is also linked to the fulfilment of certain requirements for which we have committed ourselves under the V and X corridor of the railway network. We will work with full responsibility in the coming months to accelerate the individual phases of this project, in particular with a view to making full use of the funds earmarked for this purpose by the Cohesion Fund. I must also say that, over the last period, we have reviewed this project on improving security, the real level crossing project, and in this context also carried out some additions, which means that, in order to implement this project, there will be several more funding in the final phase than was allocated some half a year or a year ago, in particular with a view to ensuring adequate traffic safety in this area, that as many of these transitions as possible can be carried out outside the military and that we will carry out adequate protection where there is no such protection.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Mirko Brulc, a question for Mr Aleš Hojs, Minister for Defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u146	Dear Minister, the austerity measures in the defence area are forecasting the reorganisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the reduction of salaries, the reduction of the regular composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the non-renewal of contracts in the contractual reserve, the abolition of certain information centres and so on. Mr Minister, do not use the threat methods used by the President of the Government when it threatens all citizens and citizens in fact, and we see that the whole country is already in a jam. Of course, the Slovenian Army is not worth threatening because we urgently need it. At the same time, we hear that there is also a forecast to purchase new armoured personnel in the medium term. I ask you, Mr. Minister: How will you ensure safety if we do not have a highly motivated staff to carry out challenging defence tasks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u147	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Member, for the question. First I'd say that all you've read is, I'd say, only partly true. The fact is that both the Slovenian Army and the civilian part of the Ministry of Defence must share the fate or the real economic situation that is here today in this country. Thus, at the Ministry of Defence, we have also received reductions or cuts in wages, and even in the 2013 and 2014 budget, these percentages, as per all other ministries or better said, in some segments even slightly less, given that the structure of these expenditure in the Ministry is slightly different. In fact, since 2009, the Ministry of Defence has reached the highest level of GDP in 2008, which was 1.56% of GDP. Since 2009, the budget of the Ministry has been steadily falling. During these four or three years, the Ministry of Defence lost 40% of its nominal amount, i.e. 40% of the amount lost. However, the share of GDP earmarked for defence fell from 1.56 to 1.16 in the following year. Of course, in the Ministry on the basis of this reduction in personal income in the budget preparation plan, we also had to foresee an appropriate reduction in the number of employees. I must say right away that I have already proposed to the Government somehow, and I believe that in fact I will succeed in this, that if the ministers are alone to find the reserves that are on the payroll, of course, this does not automatically mean forgiveness. Such proposals have already been made by the Minister for Education, and we also talk in other departments. And I am almost certain that there will be no forgiveness in the Slovenian Army despite such a reduced budget even in 2013. It is not just forgiveness now, it is also, as the Member mentioned by you, the extension of contracts or the retirement of those who need to retire. And I have to say, in a way, by the retirement of those higher personnel, it's called officers, in the old words, and by hiring the most combative personnel, it's just ordinary soldiers, this difference that we have to find is somehow closing. I can say that we have started with the transformation of the Slovenian Army, where we will – of course, this process will last a little longer – somehow create an army more delicately, which means that in some part we will reduce the intermediate levels of command. We also intend to abolish certain commands. As you know, there is now a command in the Slovenian Army more. In a way, this transformation would reduce the number of the best-paid personnel in the Slovenian Army, replace all the missing soldiers to those 7,000 600 members, who have somehow been appointed by the previous government, and thereby not endangering in any way the human strength or human skills of the Slovenian Army. But the other part, of course, is procurement. Here I have to make it clear that the percentage of costs the Ministry devotes to pay there from the percentages that were somehow around 60% in 2008 is said to be 60% of us paid for wages, poor 30% for training and education and good 10% for purchasing, equipment and development tasks, already in this year and next year in fact reduced to that extremely unfavourable ratio when we give more than 75% for wages. Only slightly more than 20% for training and education and only a weak 5% for purchases. So here I have to make it clear that in the following year and in 2014, we hope that in 2015 and beyond, economic growth will help us to have some more money nominally. Some major purchases or virtually no purchases are foreseen. We are now in negotiations with NATO to extend those commitments that we have somehow promised by 2016 in accordance with our resolution on the long-term development of the Slovenian Armed Forces there since 2020.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u149	Complementary response. Mr. Brultz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u150	Minister, thank you for the really good answers. But I do have one more question. Afghanistan President Hamid Karzai publicly said that the foreign army could withdraw from Afghanistan before 2014. Other armies are already fleeing Afghanistan, and we are sending new troops or replacing existing contingents. I think leaving Afghanistan would be such a huge savings that what I agree with, what you have said is that too little money for education, training and so on can be compensated and even easier to enforce the doctrine of military strategic reserves. Citizens and citizens also say that there are quite a few private helicopter rides. This is what those who live near the point of takeoff and landing of the helicopter say. They say these are private transports and so on. This probably does not belong to austerity measures, and if you have any answers, thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u151	Mr Brulc, of course, you know that these were all the additional questions that you did not announce, but not a request to complete the answer. Nevertheless, we ask the Minister if he can explain anything about this.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u152	I'm gonna try as much as I know, and I know something, I'd say, about that. As far as other armies or other ministers are concerned, I must make it clear that, in fact, all NATO Member States have announced their withdrawal by the end of 2014. Of course, this retreat, if you look at absolute numbers, of course, is bigger. Someone who's got 5,000 soldiers out there today and pulls them off, say, a thousand 400, they're huge numbers. As a percentage, it may not be that big if we compare them to our withdrawal. We, as you know, announced our withdrawal by the end of 2014. With this contingent we sent to Afghanistan a good week ago, we reduced the number by 10%, so we don't send 88 soldiers there anymore, but only 80 more. During the month of March we send some over 50 soldiers there, so this is an additional reduction of about 25%. And in the next contingent, which is scheduled for October, we are also somehow reducing this number 50, which means that by the end of next year, we will be halving the practical number we had at the beginning of this year. What you said is true. These costs of our mission in Afghanistan are relatively high, depending on the revenues that the soldiers have there, and even so, frankly, we will save some money. As far as private helicopter flights are concerned, I'm surprised. I would be grateful to anyone who has such information to send directly to my e-mail, an hour of takeoff, who they say is suspected of driving privately. In fact, the fact is that they must be in the Slovenian Army, of course this specifically applies to aviation, all summers announced, all passengers are registered, every flight is crew list, so always known, at every moment, who and what flew. If such deviations occur, of course we will take appropriate action and hurght. But it is true that something, I would say, not private, but civilian flights, the Slovenian Army does. As you know, the Slovenian Army is on a three-week watch for all accidents in the mountains, on the road, on every accident that occurs and for which the Slovenian Army is requested. But there are some of those, I'd say, humanitarian, if I may say so, transportation, like, last time we drove a bivouac for a mountain society in Kamnik, we drove something for Triglav National Park a good month ago. But if there are any deviants, we will certainly take action. [[advertising from the hall]] I don't know if he's driving. And I also sometimes drive so that there will not be a dilemma, but as part of the raid that the pilots have reserved for their training anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u153	Thank you very much for your completeness, Minister, despite the additional question. And it's Mrs. Maja Dimitrovski. He has a question for the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, until the implementation of the Public Finance Balance Act, which entered into force on 31 May this year, all Slovenian schoolchildren had a subsidised diet. Since this May, the general subsidy for all pupils has been abolished, and only those from socially weak families are entitled to it today. In order for the student to be even excused for a subsidised meal, he must not exceed the 42% price of the average net salary per family member, or 414.70 euros, taking into account the child's allowances and all the family's assets. However, for the subsidised lunch, the price is even lower, representing 18 % of the average net salary or 177.73 euros. Ensuring adequate nutrition through systemic measures is very important because during the period of growth and development the working capacity of the body is being created, especially in those living in socially and economically less favourable conditions. According to your ministry, last year's free lunch had good 27% of the students who applied for it. Among the students there were 25.6%. Dear Minister: How many children have the right to a subsidised diet following the implementation of the Public Finance Balance Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u155	Thank you. Minister Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u156	Thank you so much for asking. First of all, I would like to point out that, at the Ministry, we fully agree with the Member's conclusions on the importance of ensuring adequate nutrition; we support all measures in this direction through systematic measures. Let me just mention that this year, together with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, we are planning a traditional Slovenian breakfast, which our agricultural sector will not be able to offer for free because of the crisis. We estimate, however, that it is not only about promoting Slovenian products, but also about raising awareness of the need and usefulness of a healthy lifestyle, healthy nutrition and their importance for the development and learning of children. The delegation correctly notes that in last year around 27% of students and a percentage of less students received free lunch. On day 12. Ten. In 2012, when the schools submitted a monthly grant application, while at the same time providing data on the number of applicants and the number of eligible subsidies, the subsidised meal received 21 000 933 pupils and 14,2 % and 6 000 730 and 15.8 % of pupils. In doing so, we stress that the situation relates to 12. Ten. 2012 when the schools submitted monthly applications for subsidised funds while at the same time providing data on the number of applications and the number of entitlements to the subsidy. Some schools have not submitted an application, so these data are not definitive. Given that outstanding applications are still pending at social work centres, we believe that the number of beneficiaries will increase slightly, but the gap between last year's and this year's figures is still large. This data is therefore worrying and is due mainly to the social legislation adopted in the previous Congress, which does not solve any of these children's problems. We estimate that the bureaucratic calculation of censorship in many cases does not reflect the actual needs of families either because this calculation reflects the past state of the individual family, while many bankruptcys and other changes in the financial situation of individual families have changed the conditions for them. Our ministry has already established contacts with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in order to check together to see if a solution can be found that is better suited to the actual material state of the families and, I will say, to attack that difference of 10% of the points that are emerging.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Ficko has a question for the Minister, who is excused and absent today, for the agriculture and environment of Mr Franz Bogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u158	Nice hello to you all! No matter what the absence, I'll ask you a question. There'll be more time to answer. This is about the economy of investment in agriculture. There was more talk about quantitative data, but more important are the results, mainly from the point of view of added value. According to data on the state of agriculture in 2011, the value of production or income is slightly less than EUR 1.2 billion. Of this, intermediate consumption amounted to EUR 743 million and the remainder was a gross added value of EUR 449 million. In the practically unchanged consumption of fixed capital and a few minor other subsidies for production, the factor income in 2011 was EUR 434 million. The data is very poor, especially given the fact that it amounted to EUR 456 million in 2007. Since there were also fewer full-time jobs in agriculture in 2011, the factor income per unit was slightly less than €5 000 600. Data are poor; income in Slovenian agriculture is far behind the average income in European Union agriculture. In 2011, only 42% of the European Union average as a whole achieved a factor income per unit of labour in Slovenia. The result is even worse when compared with data from the old members of the Union, where this figure is only 26% on average. On the other hand, poor €349 million is spent on agricultural policy measures in 2011. The volume of funds in previous years is still slightly higher, in 2010 it was 356 million, and in 2010 it was even 404 million euros. For the sake of this Minister, I ask: How does it assess the results of Slovenian agriculture in terms of the funds invested and the volume of agricultural production obtained? What are the concrete measures planned to improve this relationship, especially in the area of value added raising? Is it planning accelerated investment in sectors producing products of higher value added? If so, when and when? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Just so you know, you've got a 30-day chance of a written answer. Is that gonna be okay?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u160	I'd like a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u161	All right, then your question will be included in the next session. Thank you very much. Let's move on with the questions, for Minister Viszak there is a question for Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u162	Good afternoon, very nice greetings, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues and Mr Minister! My question relates to the implementation of the Social Entrepreneurship Act, which we know was adopted two years ago as a bill of law, as a system law and support to which all Members of this Parliament have expressed themselves. The purpose of the law was very clear – to open up opportunities for job creation in social entrepreneurship as well, that is to say those forms of entrepreneurship which, of course, must survive on the market while also pursuing socially beneficial objectives. However, this law is being implemented. That's why I'm asking the Minister: When will the Social Entrepreneurship Council be operationally revived, I will say, an interdisciplinary, interdisciplinary body that is supposed to take care of the implementation of the law? When will the strategy for the development of social entrepreneurship, as prescribed by the law, be prepared? It should be prepared as early as 1 January 2012, which was largely contributed by civil society groups, even at a special consultation in April this year, but which is not yet in place. Why is this so important? Because a new financial perspective is being developed, as the development strategy of Slovenia will be developed for the next period and, of course, operational plans, where it is necessary to define in more detail how, in order to support this important objective, which is important not only for Slovenia, but for Europe as a whole, we will, in fact, also be linked to the use of European funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u163	Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u164	Dear Member, thank you very much for the question raised. The Social Entrepreneurship Act requires the Social Entrepreneurship Council to prepare a strategy for the development of social entrepreneurship for the period 2012-2015. At the proposal of the Council, the strategy shall be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft strategy was discussed by the Council at its 1st meeting last December. Members of the Council made a number of comments on it, which, in their scope, pointed to a very large strategy for a three-year period. On the basis of the provisions of the second paragraph of Article 29 of the Act laying down the structure of the strategy, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs prepared, on the basis of comments from Council members, a supplementary draft strategy to be considered by the Council at its 2nd meeting, convened on Thursday, 25 October this year. I would like to point out that this is the first meeting of the world in the revised composition approved by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in August this year. The new composition of the world reflects the new structure of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I suppose that answered your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u165	Complementary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u166	However, it has been quite a while since your government was appointed. I am pleased that this world will meet and will also consider the proposed strategy, but I am interested in: When will the general public know which of its proposals were included in this strategy? Because here we can agree that it was somehow designed in a partnership. And, of course, it is important because the operators of the implementation of this strategy are mainly social enterprises, how we work together and how we will be successful in pursuing common objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u167	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u168	Thank you very much for that question. I am confident that, on the basis of a certain consensus on this strategy in the world to deal with it, the continuation of the hearing will continue in the Government and also within the framework of the general public. So I don't think it's a fear of co-forming these documents, because you're right, it's an important area and, last but not least, despite the lack of this strategy, it hasn't suffered. You are aware that a number of good projects have been supported this year, we have concluded contracts that are also being implemented. You are right, however, that it is very crucial that we have a red thread here, a strategy ahead, and that we attach important attention to this segment of entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Procedurally, ma'am.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Well, not so much because I wouldn't be completely satisfied with your answer, but still. I think it is such a very important issue that we should speak more broadly in Parliament. I know that 13 projects have been supported, but, Mr Minister, we are both a little more ambitious, aren't we, we would like more jobs, we talked about 3,000 new jobs in social entrepreneurship? And given that intensive activities are taking place in Slovenia – a conference on co-operations has recently been held and so on – new and new ideas, I would like to hold a broader debate, both on the Minister's response and on the whole subject, which I believe is of further interest to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u171	Thank you very much for your proposal. Of course, this is a debate on the Minister's response, and perhaps there is something else in this if this is voted tomorrow in the context of the vote. Mrs Saša Kos has a question for the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Zvonk Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! Mr. Minister, the National Assembly is 18. Seven. At the 16th extraordinary session, the Law on Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia on Long-term Loan Liabilities of EUR 440 million, leased by the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj to the European Investment Bank to finance the replacement block project 6, power 600 MW, at the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj. As you know, in Positive Slovenia, we did not support or abstain from the bill, because we warned you and the Government about the economically poorest project and the risk of liquidity and even the payment capacity of the investor TES and Holding Slovenian power plants to manage the project and requested you to take responsibility for it, as most of the contracts were signed during the term of your previous government, and at the time some current government officials participated in the supervisory authorities, the Holding of Slovenian power plants and the TES. At that time, the government laid down the conditions for the adoption of the law that the holding of Slovenian power plants and the TES should not exceed or be satisfied with the preparation of the fifth updated investment programme for TES 6. After that, the investment value for the sixth block of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant remains the same as before, i.e. EUR 1.3 billion. As you know, the adoption of the law does not yet constitute the beginning of the drawdown of the said loan, as it is necessary to first sign the contract between Slovenia and the Government and the European Investment Bank, adopt the Law on Ratification and Treaties in the National Assembly and carry out operational tasks. However, it takes time for the Government to carry out the latter procedures, which is no longer available, as it is known from some information that the European Investment Bank and the European Bank will withdraw from the project funding on 30 November this year if the guarantee contract is not ratified. Does your hesitation mean that Holding Slovenian Power Plants and TES by preparing the fifth updated investment programme did not satisfy the conditions you set? Whether the conclusion of the guarantee contract may be compromised by an investigation into the suspicion of corruption and conflict of interest in a project led by the European Anti-Fraud Office and by a forecasting procedure led by the Slovenian police [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u173	Good. I will only read because you probably did not ask the minister what question: What are you going to do to make sure that the construction of the TER 6 block is completed within the deadline and that no damage or additional costs will arise? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Now I'm a little confused, I have to say. First of all, you pointed out that you were against or that you were not involved in the adoption of this law. Well, the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia was not united in this, some, at least one of your colleagues I know that it has cooperated and supported this law. On the other hand, you ask me what we are now going to do to ensure that there is no harm to the enforcement of this law. As you yourself have found, the Government took quite a responsible step towards this project, almost twelve days after the appointment, on 23 February, we first considered the situation concerning the investment of TEŠ 6 and based on these findings based on the results of the working group then also stopped all other activities so that the value of this investment would not increase further. As we know, the first estimate of €600 million has been thoroughly exceeded. One condition was that investment, including all costs, should not exceed EUR 300 million. There were then some other conditions under which the investmentee found that they were all fulfilled, so that procedures were under way at this stage, currently at the Ministry of Finance, concerning the operationalisation of the law adopted in the National Assembly. Once these procedures are concluded, as you have already announced, the National Assembly will face this issue again and make the appropriate decision. I must point out that the carrier of the investment in the 6th block of the thermal power plant Šostanj is TEŠ, which is in 100% of Holding Slovenian power plants. Therefore, in order to ensure that all the responsibility for this and other investments under HSE and TEC is at the level of the management of these companies, it is said to the management boards and supervisory boards that both the administrations and the supervisory boards of these companies are responsible for or if they do not carry out the relevant activities, including indemnity. And I personally expect all those who have been given this responsibility to do their utmost to continue and conclude this investment in a transparent manner on the one hand, and to have all the suspicions fully cleared up, some have also come to the public in the last period, as to the irregularities that have occurred or may still occur in the implementation of this investment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Would you like further clarification? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u176	Thank you. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. As I have already stated, we abstained from voting. And since we have been reminding you of certain things I have already mentioned and have also asked you in this regard the question or answer was the one you have given me. However, in this regard, you have already mentioned, I would like to point out that you have also failed to fulfil your promise to revise the project management process and also to inform the public of this, with the initiation of the exercise of responsibility due to irregularities that you know have occurred in this project. As you are aware, a forecasting procedure is under way against the former director of TES 6 Uroš Rotnik and other responsible persons at TES and the project related persons suspected by the police of the crime of abuse of position or rights, which is not considered to be fulfilling your promises, Mr Minister. The police have already been briefed by the former Minister of Economy, Mag. Darja Radich. I want to know: When will you carry out the new audit that you have promised, and on this basis will you exercise the liability of those responsible? What will you do to ensure the transparency of this project below? You've answered my question in part. In the media, however, it is possible to observe that the consultancy and control business is still receiving unknown companies from Liechtenstein, allegedly linked to a lawyer who also took care of companies involved in disputed transactions with Vegrad, the Hypo Bank and so on and so on. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u177	Good. I suppose these were additional questions again, but this is very often happening to us. We will, however, ask the Minister for further clarification.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u178	Thank you very much. You have to remind me of what I promised. What you're assigning to me is absolutely not. In accordance with the Government's conclusions of 23 February this year, I appointed an appropriate group to carry out the appropriate investment procedures. It also relied on the findings of the anti-corruption commission. She finished her work, I think, by the end of April or the month of May. You have also received these findings in the National Assembly on the occasion of the examination of this law, and these findings have also been received by the Agency for the Management of Capital Investments with our request to examine them and to initiate appropriate procedures in connection with the exercise of responsibility. Some of these procedures, as you yourself have mentioned, are already in progress, and some are likely to occur in the coming days, weeks or months. I personally hope so as soon as possible. In view of the various media disclosures in the past in connection with this project, and also in view of some media disclosures in the last period, it is in the interest of the police, the prosecution and the courts to clear up these matters as soon as possible and to clarify them. It is also expected that they will do their business professionally, properly and, above all, quickly, that we will not witness some spectacular action, and then for several years in the courts nothing as it has happened in the past and as it does not last with your President or with your party's president. We would like these things to happen within a reasonable time frame and to determine whether they are true or not and to say that someone is actually guilty of what he has done or is forgiven. The worst is what is happening now, even in this particular case, which you mentioned when there are quite a few of these media spectacular actions, and in the end there is no real epilogue at the level of the prosecution, not that I am not speaking at court level. So in all those cases where there are doubts or suspicions that irregularities have been committed against criminal offences, I personally expect the competent authorities to do everything they can to clear up these alleged irregularities as soon as possible and if it is found that they also exist and are also responsible for this. Once again, the biggest responsibility lies with the supervisory boards of both companies, HSE and TES, on the boards of both companies and as long as the Capital Investment Management Agency is still in operation, including the Capital Investment Management Agency. These are the bodies which must take action in these cases and, if they find that these irregularities have occurred or are even coming, also exercise appropriate responsibility. I want these things done professionally and as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Hrvat has a question for the Minister of Infrastructure and the premises of Mr Zvonk Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u180	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. The Minister-designate, Plinovodi, d.o.o., shall carry out the tasks of the system operator of the natural gas transmission network as a compulsory public service in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 30 of the Energy Act. The Energy Act, in its 59th Article, provides that the construction and acquisition of buildings and land necessary for the transmission and distribution of electricity and natural gas are to the public benefit and are subject to the provisions of the Space Regulation Act. What does that mean? This means that if the landowner, for example, is a farmer living from this land, does not sign within 30 days a contract offered to acquire a building or property right in public interest on immovable property, the system operator may submit a proposal for leasing. Now, Minister, I want to know: How many proposals for discharge by the Plinovod, d.o.o., have been tabled? I also want to know: Who checks the validity of these proposals? Is there any control over such deformities? And this: Is it true that, at the same time, the contract also sends proposals for decommissioning and thus places landowners in an angle and do not have an exit or other option than to sign the contract offered to them by the Gas pipelines? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u182	Thank you very much for that question. Here on this particular issue, I must say that two proposals for decommissioning have been tabled for projects that are in the phase of building or obtaining a specific pipeline construction permit. With regard to the merits of these proposals, in accordance with Article 93(3) of the Law on the regulation of premises, it is considered that the public benefit for the real estate required for the operation of an economic public infrastructure is shown, if provided for in the national location plan, if such operations are provided for in the national location plan. In this case, it is a national location plan because a regulation has been adopted setting out the area of the State Spatial Plan, and the plots covered by this area and so on. Otherwise, the basic law governing in such cases is the decommissioning procedure of the Law on the Regulation of Space, namely, matters for decommissioning under this Act shall be decided in the administrative procedure before the administrative unit at the first stage and in the meaning of the complaint then at the second stage within the Ministry of Field Affairs. Of course, the declarant has the possibility, in accordance with the law, to challenge the final administrative decision before the administrative court in the context of an administrative dispute. With regard to specific cases relating to the gas pipelines, this is a more special law, which you have already mentioned, namely the Energy Act, which sets out the area of energy infrastructure in these cases, and the Law on the Placing of Spatial Arrangements of State Interest into Space. In accordance with Article 47 of this Law, an investor must submit an official offer for the purpose of concluding a real estate purchase contract. It shall design and mediate the offer on the basis of the estimated value of the property. The estimated value of the property shall be determined in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 55, in conjunction with Article 58 of the Law on the Regulation of Spatial Arrangements of State Interest, by a judicial assessor of the relevant profession appointed under the rules governing the functioning of the courts. If the investor fails to conclude a contract in the public interest within 30 days of the award of the formal offer, he may submit, in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 47 of the Law on the regulation of spatial arrangements of State importance and the fourth paragraph of Article 59 of the Energy Act, an application for discharge to a competent administrative unit. On the basis of these provisions, it follows that an official tender must first be submitted for the award of a contract for the acquisition of property in the public interest and, of course, in that tender, the estimated value of the property determined by the judge of the relevant profession should be determined. If, within 30 days of the submission of such an offer, no contract on the acquisition of property is concluded in public interest, the disposing beneficiary shall have the right to submit an application for expropriation before the competent administrative unit. That's the procedure. In the event that the decision of the administrative unit disagrees, it shall also have the right to appeal to the competent ministry or, in the extreme case, may initiate an administrative dispute or proceedings before the administrative court. In cases where there is doubt as to the relevant value of the assessed subject-matter, whether it is a property or a different form of property, such as the establishment of a service and so on, there is, of course, the possibility that the amount of such compensation may be decided in a fair proceeding, irrespective of the procedure at the level of the administrative unit in connection with the decommissioning procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u183	Thank you. Mr. Croat, do you have a request for a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. If we go a little bit more specific. These two cases are, I think, both in my constituency, but it's not that important. The important thing is that it is a narrow valley; it is a congregation. And now imagine a farm that runs a pipeline route for more than 20 of its plots and that it is a protected ecological farm. It is already degraded from the existing pipeline, because there is no other option and of course the South Stream is an additional burden. Mr Minister, these are specific cases that have been brought to my attention by citizens in my office. They shall in particular draw attention to the relationship of the operator’s representatives to the owners of these land. I think it is or personally I think that every service can be saved for mutual satisfaction. See, the owner of the farm in the municipality, as I said earlier, stretching through the narrow valley, will be caused by a new pipeline in the middle of agricultural and building plots by a lot of additional degradation of the farm and due to the inability to negotiate by the operator, together with an offer that is undervalued for the owner, has also obtained a decision on the decommissioning procedure. So, basically, if you don't sign it, we'll just take it from you. We're in the 21st century and I don't think discharges in this way are acceptable. And to put it another way, this man in question has received five different offers so far. And I have the documentation that I'm going to hand over to you, and I believe that there will be a solution that will be of some mutual benefit. You know, there's some appreciation coming in, the appreciater gives an assessment, and after a while, the offer is different, completely different. And that's the problem that people have warned me about, and I think it's right for you, as Minister, to become acquainted with the activities that are taking place. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u185	Are you going to comment on the minister?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u186	Thank you very much for this opportunity to further explain in response to this question. In the highest possible number of cases where this is possible, of course, it is necessary to weigh between the expected benefits and the damage resulting from these decommissioning procedures. In most cases, of course, the methodology that sets the values is taken into account in the end; in these cases, the dispossessing beneficiary and the depriving party are somehow harmonised and these disputes do not arise. Of course, there are individual cases where these expectations and interests cannot always be reconciled, and in these cases there is no other way than to serve, in accordance with the applicable legislation, a procedure defined by the applicable legislation not only in this case, but also in other similar cases, which I would say is fairly clear and fairly precise. This is the so-called decommissioning procedure that takes place in front of administrative units, but I have already said that in cases where there is a marked discrepancy between what the interests of the disposing beneficiary and the expectations of the depriving party are, in such cases, if such non-conformity cannot be regulated, that there is still an open possibility of an assessment through an independent institution, and this is a judicial procedure through a regular court in this case. Unfortunately, there is no other way here, and investors are also limited in these practices in accordance with the value that can be determined through these valuation reports. In doing so, the legislation in force must be respected. Now for a specific case, I must say, I don't know. If the procedure has not been carried out in the way I said it before, which I must say is highly doubtful, because it is only clear rules of the game which are very precisely defined, we will get further explanations and, of course, forward them to the Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Dragan Bosic, question for the Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr. Žiga Turka.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! My question, Mr Minister, concerns the rules on school rules in secondary schools, at that point, is the fourth point which speaks of an excuse for absenteeism. There is one interesting item. Article 13 of this point refers to an apology or an excuse for absenteeism, namely, parents who justify the absence of a society, clubs, other schools in agreement or with the authority of their parents. Speaking of which, what bothers me here, if it's a full-year-old student, you could be excused for your absence. In fact, this article has been here since I can remember and is unchanged in this form. There is no practice everywhere in Europe that we do not trust a full-year-old person so much because the Constitution also gives them the right to vote and be loved at the age of eighteen after 43. And my question is very simple, and I want to know: Are you thinking about giving more autonomy to full - time students in regulating their school obligations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u190	Thank you so much for that interesting question. The fact is, students who, I'm going to say, regularly learn, regularly go to high school, usually end up there in their fourth year of age, and they might come up with or come up with a situation that you're wondering about. In fact, those students and students who have ever said things that were not so good would have come to the point of being a full - time adult, as you say, if they had, for example, sprayed themselves or for some other reason had not come to school. This proposal appears so much every time, I'm told at the Ministry. This proposal, of course, pre-debates the ministry with teachers, with parents and for the time being, to some majority support for the proposal, when some young person's education may change the regime, how an apology can be made for sports, cultural activities, a shorter disease or something else. This did not seem appropriate to parents or teachers once in a while if such arrangements were ever supported by the majority, of course we too are open to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u192	I'm sure I support what you've said, but there's a third factor. You said not to parents or teachers. We're talking about students. Now, it is true that not everyone, even at the final stage in some schools, ends up early, but it is true that the one who repeats becomes sooner, but we are thinking again about if we are raising a young person, then it is a responsibility. I listened to your statement on the radio when you said you couldn't be responsible for things you couldn't influence. That's okay with me, but they're here, but maybe they've turned the matter around a little bit, if I were to make it easier for these young people, maybe we'd develop some responsibility in them a little bit sooner, and then maybe things would change, because in Europe, we're talking about practice again, say Swiss, Germans and the like, because I've been looking into these things, they trust this kind of regulation. Of course, now we have too little time to debate what else they regulate in this way. Still, I would like to take some initiative or look at what the public thinks about it, but we may continue in this direction. I don't need an explanation, if you want to supplement it, otherwise [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u193	You want a minister? Okay. Then we're done with this question. The next one is Mrs Renata Brunskole. He has a question for the Minister of Education, Science Culture and Sport, Dr. Žig Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, distinguished Minister, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague, welcome! My question regarding pre-school education concerns two areas of pre-school education, namely volunteer traineeships and wage imbalances. Ms Mojca Škrinjar, State Secretary at your Ministry, replied at the 18th Professional Meeting of Directors and Directors of Slovenian kindergartens, held in Portorož on 8 and 9 October this year, to the question of the volunteer traineeships that the application for volunteer traineeships should be closed in the event of an obvious mistake, since there should be no restrictions on the implementation of these. The volunteer traineeship is a free-of-charge job, just so that young people have future opportunities to find new jobs, new jobs with already completed traineeships. In the Republic of Slovenia, only 100 volunteer traineeships in the field of pre-school education were awarded this year, of which 42 were assistant educators and 58 for the work of pre-school children or counselors and 7 traineeships with a closed working relationship. Mr. Secretary, I ask you: Will you allow unemployed young people to volunteer without restrictions in kindergartens, thus making it easier for them to find employment in the future? At the same time, training activities in public education are carried out by the educator, the assistant educator and other advisers. In addition, the tutor’s work with children is 30 hours and the assistant’s work is 35 hours a week. In doing so, let me say that four hours a day is the work of both the educator and the assistant. In doing so, I would point out, taking into account the differences between education and work obligations, that there are extremely large differences in personal income between educators and assistant educators, up to €500. So I ask you: How do you plan to settle this wage gap between educators and assistant educators? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u195	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u196	Thank you very much. First of all, about the internship. The fact is that traineeships are an important reference in job search, but it is not the only possible entry into the field of work. Statistics show that around 70% of people in this area gain work experience through traineeships, 30% in different ways. The fact is that the costs that the selected candidates represent for the ministry amount to EUR 15 000 53 for the trainee with a working relationship and EUR 418 for the payment of the mentor for the volunteer trainee, because the volunteer trainee actually has the same right to a quality mentor as everyone else. These costs should also include the cost of payment of compulsory medical examination before the start of work, the cost of occupational safety training, compulsory accident insurance, which is all the cost of the educational institution where the trainee performs his work. In the light of all the above and of the invisible financial situation in which the State is located, it is evident that it is not possible for anyone to make available the means available or to carry out volunteer training. The temptation may also arise to reduce employment in the field of preschool care, patching up gaps in maternity and similar, I will say, in a way that would not be fair to those seeking regular employment, not to those who are entitled to paid traineeships. With regard to the question of the wage relationship between the educator and the assistant or assistant, this is regulated by the Public Sector Salaries System Act and the Public Sector Collective Contract, which sets out the wage class. Of course, other acts also lay down some of the burdens or norms mentioned. When we talk about how to organize preschool education, as well as later schooling, in a way that is as painless as possible for all children, parents, and employees, we meet with similar information that you ask. The fact that sometimes incomes are disproportionate, that burdens are disproportionate, in short, at times when resources are less, become much more sensitive, is much more accurate compared with others. All these things will have to be taken into account when we try to place the burden of this saving as fairly as possible on all employees and, of course, on all the beneficiaries of social services in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Do you have a request for a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u198	Thank you very much. With this answer, I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, believe me, I can't be satisfied. All those who have ever worked in the field of local communities know that the Ministry of Education is, of course, the cost of mentoring, and the cost of working in kindergarten is the burden of local communities and parents. So here we know what we're talking about, that there's not too much of an education ministry here to talk about how big the cost of education is. It's the cost of mentoring in this direction, which you've been talking about, I agree. Second, we know that this is the burden of local communities, that is, municipalities. Only 100 volunteer traineeships at this time of unemployment, today there was a lot about this talk, previously asked a colleague of the Minister of Economy about it, it is unacceptable for us that only 100 volunteer traineeships were possible. Volunteer means free. I understand that you have pointed out to me in connection with the mentor that the cost of mentoring is €418, but this way these people might get a job if not in kindergarten, maybe in some protective work centre or something. But if they don't have a trainee, they're at zero, at first. When I read, we received a booklet from traineeship to retirement saying: "The transition from education to the labour market for most young people is not easy." It's really not easy, and I'm gonna ask you again: Will you, the competent ministry, also take a step forward in connection with wage imbalances and volunteer traineeships? You've only hired seven people. They got the internship by concluding the contract, by hiring. The others, as I said, were 100 volunteers.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u200	As you correctly note, some costs are borne directly by the state, some costs are borne by municipal budgets. Congregation budgets are also, in some ways, consumers of public money. The congregations also want to save some money. The scope of the traineeships that we are describing is consistent with or greater than the need for jobs, following employment in this area. That's what our data shows. If someone serves us with different information, if people are missing, because there is too little traineeship and so on, of course, we will be very happy to take these things into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u201	Do you have a motion to discuss the Minister's response?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u202	General debate. Dear Minister, I expected you to succeed, perhaps you have forgotten about this, and also to respond to the wage imbalances. I think it would be right for your competent ministry to finally settle this issue in this direction as well. Why I am also attached to your volunteer traineeships – this was the question of the principals and directors of Mrs State Secretary. So there's obviously a need. But I can tell you that please see how many volunteer traineeships were in the White Country, and you will know your own answer. Some areas hardly had this option. For such areas that fall under demographically threatened areas, such care for young families, if in this direction we look only at saving, then we are already young families, not we, but with the adoption of the law extra burden, you have to understand that this is not the right way. Therefore, I propose that a general discussion be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in conjunction with encouraging young people, when they complete secondary education, volunteering, if unfortunately they cannot already get a job, that they will later be able to work more easily and, on the other hand, in relation to the disproportionate pay in the area of preschool education. These are warnings from people who run institutions, these are warnings, they weren't warned by chance at the conference. And I believe, Mr Minister, that you are not very pleased with my proposal, but believe that this is for the benefit of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. This is my proposal for a general debate. To have an assistant educator, 670 euros in salary, and a teacher a thousand 170, for example, up to €500 is a difference, perhaps sometimes more, but this is a big difference between them. She also spends four or five hours with her children. They've been together four to five hours, all alone. I believe that this imbalance is extremely high, even if experts working in these institutions suggest so. I know, Mr Minister, that you are always ready to listen to your colleagues and I suggest that a general debate be held in this direction. Thanks for the answer, though.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u203	Good. You can't, unfortunately, you don't have the right to answer. Unfortunately, this is the rules of procedure, but we will decide on the proposal of my colleague Brunskola to discuss your response at the next meeting tomorrow. We turn to the next question to be raised by Mrs Tina Komel to the Minister without a portfolio responsible for Slovenians in place and around the world, Mrs Ludmili Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. In 2001 a protection law was passed in Italy for members of the Slovenian minority in Italy, and some of its good solutions are not guaranteed systematic financing of the Slovenian minority. Since the law does not determine the amount of funds received for its operation by Slovenian NGOs in Italy, Slovenian companies and organisations are in almost every year in a situation where, due to the failure to pay, the Italian governments are simply having difficulty in ensuring the implementation of their programmes and projects. You wrote in the coalition contract: "More attention must be paid to Slovenians in place and around the world, because it is about half a million precious people whose homeland has forgotten too many times." Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you: What were the views of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the coordination of ministries with the Government of the Italian Republic on Friday, 19 October 2012, in Brdo pri Kranj? Have you requested a change to the protection law in which the payment deadline and the amount of Slovenian minority financial resources in Italy would be fixed?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u205	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u206	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, dear colleagues, welcome! Thank you for your question. At the Office for Slovenians in place and around the world, we are keeping abreast of developments in substitution and also in the world, so I have met several times with the two presidents of the umbrella organisations and have reviewed the status of funding as well. As you have found, the law of protection does not provide for the dynamics of payments and the level of payments. This is a weakness of this law, so the Slovenian minority regularly encounters these problems; they are also partially mitigated by contributions from Slovenia. The Office for Slovenians, in place and around the world, has prepared extensive material for this meeting at ministerial level or for the Coordination Committee of Ministers. On the part of the Office, the Secretary of State, Mr Longar, participated in this meeting in accordance with established practice, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs raised these issues to the interlocutor, i.e. the requirement for systemic resolution of funding and also for funding within a normal period of time. The Minister also pointed out that Slovenia did not reduce funds for the Italian minority, so we rightly expect that Italy will not reduce funds for the Slovenian minority, and we also expect that these funds will be at the same level as they were in the past period. In addition, the Minister highlighted the financing of minority newspapers, including the Maritime Diary, which is also not systematically regulated. We have somehow welcomed the fact that, however, an omism for Slovenians has been set up with the Italian Minister for Home Affairs, and this omija is intended to solve all the current problems. They met once, the second meeting is expected to take place in November, and we expect that the Slovenian minority will also have the opportunity to raise all the questions and to get the answers. The Slovenian Government has therefore highlighted all these pressing issues, including with regard to the drafting of the new electoral legislation and the greater possibility of the election of the Slovenian Member, and has been assured by the Italian Minister that the Italian Government will do everything in its power to ensure that the Slovenian minority is adequately cared for. Now we can only hope and expect this promise to be fulfilled. If not, we will continue to warn the Italian government through our diplomatic-consular representation, through the foreign minister and through the office if these promises do not come true.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u207	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u208	Thanks for the answer. Minister Ludmila Novak, that we will all understand this ministry more easily than the citizens of television screens. It's been a while since you've been in this position, so I'd really appreciate it if you'd ask me, in addition to everything you've listed, to try to answer: When and how will these results be seen? All we can do right now is warn. Is there anything we can do? But let's do what you, the government, have promised.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u209	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u210	You can understand that there is now a step on the Italian side that we cannot do anything else at this time. You probably don't expect us to take remedial measures and we will therefore reduce the funds to the Italian minority. We are for both countries to respect agreements, respect commitments and now we have assurances from the Italian Government that these commitments will be met. I don't think there's anything else we can do right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u211	Thank you very much. The question to the Minister for Infrastructure and Space Mr Zvonk Černač will be raised by Mrs Janja Naast.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u212	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Dear Minister Černač, the course of the third development axis in the northern part of the A1 Velenje–Slovenia motorway is not a very easy solution to the spatial plan for several years and makes it difficult to put into space and start construction. The 2008 study, prepared by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, showed that the current projected part of the rapid road path in the Šentrupert–Velenje secession due to non-conformity with the environmental sector and three negative opinions on unacceptable interventions to agricultural land will probably no longer be appropriate and will therefore not be planned in this area. The Ministry has therefore set up a new material for a second solution on the fast road route, thus cutting between A1 and Velenje. The section from Velenje to Slovenj Gradac is not problematic. And as far as I know, it remains unchanged. The fact is that the higher part of the Savinja Valley is difficult for the economists and representatives of local communities to cope with this conclusion, as conditions for more coherent regional development and opening up the valley are once again at risk. The new version of the route should also provide an appropriate link for the upper Savinja Valley, as the current transport connection from Letusz towards the Logar Valley is poor. Even if another alternative solution were involved in the preparation of the State Spatial Plan, the people of Savinja and Shaleska Valley are concerned about the underrelationship of the upper part of the valley with a possible more remote fast road. If a new rapid-road route were to move away from this part of the region, it would also make sense to include a fast-road connection to the Upper Savinja Valley in the national spatial plan. The Chamber of Commerce and the local communities of the Shaleška and Zgornjesavina Valley advocates such a variant of the northern part of the third development axis, which, due to an economic, logistical problem, will allow implementation as soon as possible and will be technically justified. The third development axis is, as a long-term solution for more coherent regional development and better, an easier link between our region and the state and European space, fully designed to accelerate transport flows and better link with the rest of the country. Mr Minister, I am interested in your opinion on the possible re-examination of the variant of the A1 Šentrupert-Velenje motorway section and the possibility of analysing land interventions in other infrastructure projects in other parts of Slovenia. Speed in finding an appropriate priority solution is therefore also of interest to me: By what time does the Ministry intend to prepare an alternative solution to the possibility of a route to the northern part of the third development axis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u213	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u214	Thank you very much for that question. The placement of this route into the space takes place somewhere from 2005 and 2006. We are now in 2012 and 2013, and after seven years here on this part of the highway to Velenje we do not yet have the right solution or somehow we had it in 2008, but it turns out that it is not possible to actually realize it because of individual conflicting parameters. In September this year, the Ministry prepared a comprehensive report on activities in the preparation of individual State Spatial Plans, based on the Government Decision of 14 June this year and sent it to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and acceptance. The government will address this report in the coming month, and in the context of this report also a change in dynamics in the preparation of individual national spatial plans, in particular with a view to accelerating activities at individual sections where activities are taking too long. One priority is certainly the third development axis in the northern, southern and central parts. This report on the specific section of the route between Highway 1 and Velenje gives rise to a proposal for a correction of the planning points. In the process of preparing the VAT, a number of optimisations of the road route and other arrangements were carried out during the decision-making process on the most appropriate variant and the design of the idea project. The extremely high investment costs of these roads also raise serious questions and its feasibility in the future. The ventilation of the planning sites is also necessary due to problematic interference with agricultural land and social inadmissibility in the local environment. The key reason that we are forced to find a new solution at the section between Highway 1 and Velenje is that the planned F2-2 route, although confirmed in 2008, has proved impossible. For a year and a half, efforts have failed to obtain positive opinions from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment on the appropriateness of the environmental report. Three negative opinions have already been issued in this process, and without a positive opinion in this process it is not possible to continue the activity. In view of the fact that several variants have already been verified in both the central and the far eastern corridor in order to ensure the continuation and implementation of the project, it is proposed that a new proposal should be developed in the preparation of the VAT and the study of variants and environmental reports, which should take into account the following starting points: data prepared in the preparation of the 2007 version study will be used, and the variant should be adequately linked to the version E2 at the section of Velenje South–Slovenian Gradec South, for which the State Spatial Plan is to be adopted by the end of this year, the variant must demonstrate the maximum possible transport efficiency and the variant must be spatially and environmentally acceptable. The preparation of the relevant professional bases, the completion of the study of variants and the environmental report and the preparation of the new proposal will be completed by the end of this year. As part of the public decommissioning planned for this year or at the beginning of next year, the new basis for the most appropriate option will also be presented to local communities. In the case of positive decisions, in the case of a broader consensus around the selected option, I plan that the State Spatial Plan for this new version in the form of a Regulation would be adopted by the end of 2013 or a variant chosen by the Government sometime next April, which would then allow the adoption of this Regulation by the end of the following year. These are now some optimal hands and optimal procedures. We'll try to keep them in the best possible sense. We are aware, as you said and pointed out, that it is not just a road, but also an appropriate transport link to connect the entire space to the existing motorway network in a developmental sense. This aspect will be taken into account in the assessment of the most appropriate options. I am counting that, in cooperation with all that this section is tanning, and in the appropriate search for a solution that will not face negative deviations in the area of agricultural land and environmental issues, these deadlines, which are announced here, are feasible and, in this case, the beginning of the provision of adequate funds in 2014 is also realistic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u215	Would you like a refill? You don't want to. Thank you very much. We move on to the next question. The Minister without a department responsible for Slovenians in place and around the world, Mrs Ludmili Novak, will ask Mr Darko Jazbec a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u216	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! A special greeting to the Minister, which I can praise, that she has been sitting here for quite some time, even when there is no question of her. Your ministry has a very large title. But what I would like to stress is your concern for the Slovenians around the world. Look, in the Ljubljana maternity ward, between 6 and 7 thousand newborns are born a year. That's good. This year, however, Slovenia will leave between 7,000 and 8,000 inhabitants. That's not so good. We say that they leave the most successful ones who move into a more favourable environment, with more stimulating atmosphere and, above all, with adequate rewards for work. So we're talking about brain drain, which means that human capital is leaking out of our country. It is evident that investing in human resources has much greater added value than investing in physical resources. In particular, Slovenia is facing a decline in development this year, a loss of investment, i.e. those investments that have been invested in these staff, in these successful people, with the loss of development potential, especially those that bring money. Of course, the positive effects of this brain drain are also positive, but this is for the country that gains these experts. We simply observe that this year these departures have increased dramatically because people simply do not know what will happen tomorrow. We see how legislation is passed, everything by speedy procedure, overnight, the country changes before our eyes virtually every day. I will read from the interview, Dr. Breda Mulec said: "Slovenia is leaving because of lack of opportunities and lack of challenges. For little Slovenia, which has a publicly funded education programme, this is a huge economic loss." This lady was employed, at least then, at the Slovenian Government Office for Slovenians in place and around the world. So my question is as it was asked in principle: Are you following these departures of Slovenians from the country? Are you making any records? Are you active in any program, perhaps for the return of these experts to Slovenia? Maybe you're creating some kind of network to connect them to each other and your home? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u217	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u218	Thank you so much for asking me that question. The lady you quoted is still in the Office and we are discussing many times what to do with these new emigrants. In fact, in times of economic crisis, these displaced persons are more than ever. It is certainly a brain drain, as more educated people are now being evicted, usually young people who simply do not get a job here. Of course, I regret that there are no more jobs for such students, but I would like them to find their way back to their homeland after a certain period abroad and bring that knowledge with them. So our goal is to circle the brain, if we say so, so that they go for knowledge, come back, or to keep in touch with them, to keep in touch. In today’s global world, it is natural for people to go around the world, educate themselves, and seek jobs elsewhere. That's what the global world is like. We want to keep in touch with all of them or with those who want to. That is why we do some networks of contacts, including through our web, then we also support various conferences, projects carried out by scientists, economists of Slovenian origin abroad, so through the regular annual call for proposals we co-finance certain projects. We also support the organisation of various conferences organised by civil society dealing with Slovenians around the world. For example, this year the World Slovenian Congress organized a conference of young scientists, students, researchers living abroad or living there, as well as a conference of journalists from abroad, from foreign countries, scientists, economists. Thus, we have a web, a network, or a network of young people who can meet or exchange contacts in this way, and we also have a network of economists, which we complement in accordance with existing legislation, as well as a network of scientists. Given that these modern emigrants are more educated, they are somehow online, they are also meeting, they are communicating, and we are, of course, available to them to provide different information or also to support certain programmes. We do not keep records, but of course we are monitoring these migrations. However, we obtain records from the Ministry of the Interior, which has this information. As you stated, more than 6 000 citizens went away this year, but not all are defined later as Slovenians, so this data is very different and it is difficult to collect them very accurately. All of us, however, encourage them to register when they leave or check out and apply for permanent residence abroad. For this is also very important for the exercise of electoral law. Although not reporting is also a certain offence that can also lead to some punishment, unfortunately not everyone does. That is why, through our clubs, societies abroad, we encourage everyone through diplomatic and consular representations, however, to report their residence and in this way they are also accessible and can obtain electoral material.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u219	Here you go, Mr. Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u220	Thank you very much for your answer. Maybe I'll just fill it up a little bit. Nevertheless, it is necessary to know that, especially after the application of Zujf, this departure curve went up dramatically, that is, in the second quarter. That's when they moved out the most. In particular, given the negative spiral of the economy and the decline in investment in R & D. I can also say that 90 doctors this year have asked for a record of a good name, never so much. I've been talking to myself. I know six people who've gone abroad. If I might have known one before, they're all lined up now. And everyone said they weren't thinking about going back because of the situation here, so I'm not going to list it all now. So I want to ask you, are you paying more attention to preventing these departures in some way, or are you investing energy to try to get back, because maybe things will get better sometime, maybe the government will change, I don't know if it's more to keep the contacts themselves and keep the culture where they move. Another question might be that, Prime Minister Janša said that our boat has holes in its sails and it's hard to catch the wind, and I'm curious: Will this boat turn into a single submarine without a function? If you have an increased workload, do you expect additional funding for your increased workload? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u221	Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u222	As I said before, in every crisis, the number of departures abroad is certainly increasing. Thus, in our history, we record for decades when these departures were more or less. Of course, the ZUJF is also a result of the crisis in Slovenia. These departures, I think, are not the consequences of Zuyf, but it's all very connected. Working on prevention, of course, makes no sense. I personally wish, as well as the Government, that there would be as many jobs here as possible, so we are also taking various measures to promote the economy. But if they are not, then, of course, ambitious youths who have the knowledge that they need can leave, no one can stop them. I just wish that in Slovenia there would be such a situation again that we could gladly come back and also make Slovenia's knowledge available here. That is why we must work hard, and that is why we are trying to keep in touch with them, and we are also investing in keeping all those who are leaving in contact with Slovenia in the knowledge of the Slovenian language. That is why we also support, together with the Ministry of Education, Slovenian teachers who teach Slovenian language in various parts of the world, including for the children of these displaced persons. In short, it's our job to encourage them to keep in touch with the country. Of course, some also show the willingness to take on the practice of young people from Slovenia both in the economic field and in the field of education, in particular those at the institutes, in educational organisations, to help young people and Slovenia get some new knowledge.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin will ask the Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr. Žigi Turku.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Madam President. And we're going from abroad to our homeland. I'm going to ask the Minister, Dr. Turk, a question about the Predjama Castle. In fact, if I am not mistaken, the Act on the Protection of Cultural Heritage was adopted in 1999, according to which provisions should also find the administrator of that heritage, which is defined as a cultural monument of national importance. Among these monuments is the Predjam Castle, well known. It is officially called Predjama, the City of Jama. Let me say that the Environment Ministry of Natural Heritage, located under this castle, has already tendered and awarded concessions in 2004, while the cultural part of the government has not done so. So three and a half years ago, which was then, as president of the Society, April 23rd, from Postojna, I posed a question to the competent authorities at the Ministry of Culture when they intended to tender this concession or this lease. It was only after the intervention that I received an answer six months later, that the same year your ministerial, current ministerial colleague, then Member Zvonko Černač asked the same question. Well, as I am aware, the Ministry of Culture prepared this tender on the expiry of its term of office last December, i.e. the public gathering of offers for rent, and some offers were also made. Now I ask you, Mr. Secretary: Why was the invitation stopped? When do you intend to publish a new invitation to tender and thus fulfill your legal obligation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u226	Thank you very much for that question. The reasons for the cancellation of the invitation to tender are as follows: Before the publication of the public procurement bids, the Ministry did not coordinate itself with the Ministry of Environment and Space, which was responsible for the management of the natural values of the fixed cave system and the premium cave system, it was not coordinated with the Municipality of Postojna and was not coordinated with the local community of Bukovje. This non-coherence and the fact that the public collection of rental bids was published at the time when the Government or ministries were only allowed to carry out ongoing transactions is the reason why the Minister, in accordance with the published specific provisions on the tendering procedure and Article 35 of the Real Estate Regulation and the Local Self-Governmental Communities, Official Journal 34/11, stopped this procedure. Preparation of this invitation to tender is ongoing. These days we coordinate with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment because of the caves below and behind this castle, with the local communities due to the infrastructure in the village of Predjama and with the Institute of Knowledge or its founder Municipality Postojna in connection with the movements of the cave castle, with Postojna Cave, d.d., on their investments recognised under the contract on the transfer of the monument to possession of dated 13. 3. 2007 and their request for investments in Castle Jama in the immediate vicinity. Otherwise, there is no problem with the function of this castle alone. The visit is increasing very well. The castle visits about 100,000 visitors annually, which is significantly more than years ago. Joint marketing with the Postojna Cave is the most helpful. This common marketing is due to the fact that every fifth visitor to the Postojna Cave also visits the Predjam Castle. In this way it stays in Postojna or Postojna for a long time, which also increases the demand for guest and hotel services. The use of synergies between Postojna Cave and Predjam Castle also stems from the fact that Postojna Cave is a concessionary of the cave system of the Predjam Castle and also owner of parking spaces near the Predjam Castle. In these efforts, the Ministry is also paying attention to the interests of the local population, mainly due to the traffic time that the visit of the Predjam Castle, which is in itself positive, brings and wants to promote the connection between the concessionaire Postojna Cave, the tenants of the Predjam Castle, the local community and the municipality of Postojna, all in the interest of balancing tourism or economic development and the living conditions of the local population. In short, if I sum up, this invitation to tender is underway, but nothing is delayed because the castle is in place and actually has more visitors than ever.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u227	Here you go, Mr. Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You just answered a few questions, so thank you. However, I would like only, perhaps not so much to ask, but to focus on this, because Predjam Castle has 150 thousand visitors not 100,000 and is the fourth most visited tourist facility in Slovenia. So far, three operators have been replaced since the adoption of the law, which have not paid the state nothing. Given that the country is also in serious financial difficulties, it also seems unacceptable to me, as a Member, that we are delaying so long as we can get some rent, which has been foreseen at least EUR 150 000 per year in this call. In addition, I believe that there is even greater damage in the absence of a long-term lease, and none of the operators wants to accept or practically carry out some of the urgent matters that are necessary. So I must tell you, Minister, that this Predjam castle is in a much worse state, as regards cultural heritage in the castle itself. Although beautiful is the exterior and so on, while the castle is completely uprooted, because there are no micro-climate conditions for these museum collections to be kept there. It is therefore essential that a serious operator should be reached as soon as possible to change this. And secondly, the Predjam Castle should be right for those things you spoke about, namely, the Permanent and for the local community also a generator of political development. From this point of view, it would be wise to arrange as soon as possible for the country to get what belongs to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u230	With what you've said, I completely agree. My colleagues are also working on the fact that the rent or revenue, part of which has been created in recent years, is somehow trying to bring into the state budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u231	We are moving on to the next question. to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. Mr Andre Visiak and the Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenaku, will ask Mrs Alenka Bikar a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! Recently, we have been informed of the information that will inform the competent social work centres if the parents do not come after the child in time. Even more, after the third delay, the parents will take the child to the police station. I am aware of the responsibilities of teachers and supervisors of individual kindergartens to protect the child, especially in the light of the care and proper behaviour of parents, and especially in today's situation a somewhat inadequate legal basis for a child to be able to remain in kindergarten for a maximum of 9 hours. For certain parents, this may be stressful, and for single - parent families it may be virtually impossible. I am also aware of caution when it comes to identifying child neglect. But I'm asking you: How will social work centres ensure the presence of the relevant person who will take over such a child? How will they care for a child from a lower age? How will the police, or police, be organized when such a boy is taken over? Who will take care of him by the time his parents arrive, and in what way especially when we talk about children of the first century? The decisions of individual kindergartens are, according to some estimates, in the hands of individual kindergartens, parents, and founders, that is, the congregation. Regardless of the decisions and attempts of the parents, we know that sometimes it is almost necessary to practice magic so that you can take the child on time. And of course we say this about responsible parents, I stress responsible parents who do not neglect their children. It is therefore possible for the child to be brought to the competent social work centres or even to the police. That's why I'm asking you: Will they also, in cooperation with the competent Minister of Education, join the system-wide solution to the problem? Regardless of the fact that parents who do not take over their child should be a small number, I am convinced that, in the first place, they should think about the child, his development, his sense of belonging. Therefore, such decisions by individual kindergarteners who are conscientiously fulfilling their obligations may be questionable without further clarifications and envisaged measures. Since this is an extremely sensitive subject that clearly affects the development of an individual child, I ask you: Are they planning any additional educational activities within the competence of their ministry to assist employees in the possible acquisition of a child? Thank you so much for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u233	Mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u234	Your Honor, thank you so much for this interesting question. The Ministry of Work of the Family and Social Affairs is not officially aware of the actions of some of the kindergartens you are referring to and which concern your question. It is probably an article published in the Journal on Tuesday, October 16, this year. And here comes this hint that those parents who don't come in time can find their child somewhere other than kindergarten. So the main reason is that parents are late to take over their children. I think it is a matter that can really encourage such a set of meaningful processes that you have pointed out in the context of your parliamentary question, but I think that this would be a significant exaggeration in the light of the circumstances. The working time of the kindergarten is recorded in the home order of the kindergarten. Parents, on the other hand, trust the child in protection on the basis of a signed registration contract. In the event of a breach of this contract, because it is a breach of the contract if it does not occur in time, the kindergarten shall also have the possibility to impose contractual sanctions. For example, a spindle can charge the parent a surcharge if the child is in kindergarten for more than nine hours at a slightly higher price than agreed and so on. We believe that the envisaged kindergarten measure referred to in this article, which you have pointed out to be inconceivable, in particular in view of the specificity of the reasons why a child can be taken to another form of institutional protection. The envisaged measure, in our view, primarily protects kindergartens, not children. And that's the key problem. The police notification or even the placement in a crisis centre should be the last option, but only if it is clear and obvious that the parents do not intend to take over the child and that there is no one else who can take over the child, such as the old parents. In any event, in the event of suspicion of any neglect of parental rights on the part of parents, there is no doubt that there is no doubt in the case of a lack of respect for working time in kindergarten, it is, of course, obliged to inform the Centre for Social Work in accordance with Article 6 of the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence. So it's completely unconceivable, probably a bit of a blackmailing action by kindergartens, and it certainly doesn't open up the scales you mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u235	Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u236	Thank you very much. I am joining the opinion of my colleague Visiak. We really don't prepare for that kind of thing because the police don't "ahta" children for now, at least not yet. We do have a lot of work to do, but so far we do not have in the law of child protection, we have a general guarantee of safety, but not in this sense. In such a case, if what the Member had said had happened, we would have tried to help, to find foster families, workers of social work centres, what kind of crisis center number they would have given, they would not have taken over the child. It is true, however, that the police would probably do something, not likely, but certainly, in terms of verifying the circumstances and what crime in the sense of neglecting a child or something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u237	Here you go, Mrs. Bikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u238	Thank you for your answers. I have to say, I don't think I'm overreacting, I'm a parent myself, and I talk a lot to the other parents. There are many problems of coming in time for the child, it is said, in nine hours to pick up the child, thank God, some of us have a partner who can then come and somehow combine, some are just custodians, they don't have these options, then grandparents, as you mentioned, respected Minister Visjak, that they come many times right. Yeah, great, those who can. What about those who don't have it, and it happens unintentionally once, twice, three times, or can it actually happen then? As I've just heard from you, no. Great. But I do have one suggestion. Perhaps a solution could be found on the proposal of the President-in-Office of Brunskola when she suggested or asked why volunteering would not increase, given that we have only 100 of them, if I understood correctly, and perhaps in this direction, a solution could be found, not systemicly, or at least somehow, that these little ones would be provided even when after five hours the parents might not really be able to come in time. It seems to me that this would be one of the solutions, given that I hear that it doesn't even think about getting rid of it systematically, because it's obviously irrelevant to you. But how?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u239	Here you go, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u240	Dear Mrs. Bikar, I am the father of three children, all three were in kindergarten in Brežice. I have been an official in Ljubljana for 12 years and over. Everyone attended kindergarten when I was on my way to Ljubljana every day. My wife is working at the hospital and she's on a tour and we're lucky to have only old parents along the wife's line who are over 80 years old today. Never, under these conditions, have we ever missed a child in kindergarten. I just want to tell you that this is one of the basic obligations of parents to take care of some order even when they take over a child in kindergarten. There is no other than order and some normal obligation that can be enforced. Now, of course, if you want to create a problem out of this based on this article, which actually points to inappropriate solutions in such cases, it is your business. However, I would like to tell you that kindergartens should not use sanctions or measures once, twice or twice to call the social work centre or the police for reasons other than delays. Secondly, if there is a suspicion of a crime, abuse or neglect of a child, that is another matter. However, if it is a delay, kindergarten has all contractual possibilities to sanction through the procedure, through the courts of parents, if they do not arrive in time and if the costs are incurred in kindergarten as a result.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u241	Dr. Gorenak, perhaps? No, no, no. Please, Mrs. Bikar, would you like to have a general discussion? You don't want to. We are moving on to the next question. The Minister for Agriculture and the Environment will ask Mr Jože Velinja a question. The Minister is absent, but you will ask the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u242	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I'm a lovely greeting to the audience in the hall! Notwithstanding the absence of Minister Bogovic, I would like to ask a question regarding the operational waste management programme. On 13 September this year, the government adopted a third package of measures to promote the economy. Specific solutions also include the preparation of an updated operational waste management programme that will identify concrete measures to increase waste reuse, recycling, waste recovery and disposal. The Cohesion Fund for the Environment planned the construction of eight waste management centres during the 2007-2013 programming period. Several municipal waste management centres are already in operation, but most do not yet have all the necessary infrastructure built. It is therefore necessary to complete projects and upgrades. The only fully operational municipal waste management centre with all necessary facilities is in Celje. In recent times, we have been facing a trend in reducing the amount of mixed municipal waste, causing proper separation of waste already at source. The situation is, of course, very commendable from an environmental point of view, and the issue of achieving a critical mass of waste is being raised that would economically justify the construction or upgrading of existing and new regional waste management centres. For this reason, I ask Mr. Franz Bogovic, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment: Does the preparation of an operational waste management programme provide for specific measures at their Ministry to ensure that the pre-designated infrastructure of regional centres will not be built and that the critical amount of waste will enable each centre to operate normally? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u243	Thank you very much. The Minister will reply to the next regular meeting of the National Assembly due to the absence. We are moving on to the next question. The Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku, will ask Mr Matjaž Zanoskar a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u244	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, this issue has been addressed to you, your Ministry, and we have been following the process and process of reorganisation of the Institute for Education of the Republic of Slovenia for some time. To this end, we have also referred a written question to your Ministry in the Group of Positive Slovenia. However, since this answer has not yet been answered, but it is no problem that we have not yet received it, that time is probably still running out and that is the time frame for this answer, we have also decided to ask an oral question on this topic. [[...]] As we are aware of in the reorganisation of the Institute of Education of the Republic of Slovenia, you foresee the abolition of three regional units of the Institute of Education. This is about the Murska Sobota district unit, the Koper district unit and the Slovenj Gradec district unit, which is Koroška. There are two of them operating in a bilingual area. And among these three is the Institute of Education, the regional unit of Slovenj Gradec, that is to say Koroška. Koroška is not in the bilingual area, but it is a border region and has many contacts with Austria. In Wolfgang there is also a regional unit of the education institution of the Republic of Austria, with which it is strongly linked and cooperated. The Comenius project, which is important both for Slovenia and for the education system as well as for Austria, is currently under way. In many of the questions that we have addressed from all of these affected regions, your services have been able to answer our questions and it has been united in all the answers that you will use to strengthen the remaining areas of the units with experts, in a way that will fully cover the needs of all educational institutions in our country. Then you also said that it would contribute to better student performance in the national knowledge check in the regions. You also said that the costs of operating district units would be reduced. I think you could give me your comments and argue that this is not the case with all these answers, which were united. Above all, these peripheral regions, Koroška, Pomurje and Primorska, will be disadvantaged and disadvantaged with other regions that will continue to have educational institutions. This creates a lower standard of education and education, which also generates additional costs for the inhabitants of these regions, and we have already referred to you as a protest or a comment to this reorganisation at this stage of creation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u246	Thank you very much for this question, even for, I believe, the genuine concern for the operation of some parts of public institutions in a certain area. So far, we have not made any major structural changes in the field of education, but every small change is accompanied by quite a resistance, which is in some ways understandable. Those who somehow like the current situation are usually in the majority, more than those who may see that the future is better, even opponents are usually much louder than those who agree. This also applies to any association of schools or such. The fact is that we are preparing a reorganisation of public institutions carrying out the tasks set out in Article 28 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, including the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education. We are doing this reorganisation mainly to ensure that the Ministry and the entire school system in Slovenia receive one or two strong professional or research organisations, including the Ministry, instead of a dispersed crowd of small public institutions, which often perform the same or similar functions. The Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education has been operating with 9 organizational units located in the entire territory of Slovenia for a very long time, almost since its establishment. These organizational units also reflect some of the communication and other capabilities that were available in Slovenia at the time when there was no highway crossing, when there were no quick communications and so on. Many of these units of the Institute of Education have no professionally covered entire curriculum, they have no expertise in all areas. So it would be wrong to expect, for example, that in Murski Sobota, in Slovenj Gradc, or in another small regional centre, all experts are, for example, covered from there. For what kind of school subject in that area are experts from a nearby larger centre already covered; say, from Maribor, Kopra, Nova Gorica, depending on where we are. And our goal is to concentrate things in such a way that those institutions or those departments that remain scattered across Slovenia will be so powerful that they will be able to cover effectively an integrated entire curriculum and all aspects of a school without having to deal with one aspect, for example, experts from Slovenj Gradac, with other experts from Maribor, and for the third thing someone will come from Celje or Ljubljana. In doing so, I would like to add that the units of the Slovenian Institute of Education, the Koper base unit and the Murska Sobota base unit will continue to maintain the head of the unit or leader, and certainly all advisers who care for national issues and advisers who care for pre-school education and education during the first period.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u247	Here you go, Mr. Zanoskar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u248	Mr Minister, you must understand that Koroška is one of the regions that has given our country the most in the austerity programme; the most institutions have ceased in Koroška and everything is centralised either in Ljubljana, or in Celje, Maribor. With this reorganisation, it will be a smaller standard for those living in Koroška. However, the second thing that bothers us is that every reorganisation that has taken out an institution from the region of Korea has later shown itself not financially justified. The financial effects and material effects were not such as those caused by the injury. In this case, we are equally afraid that there will be no financial effects; you may have an answer to this, you may have calculated these financial effects, how much savings there will be, but so far we cannot talk about any country's move made in Koroška and argue some financial effects. That's what we're worried about. In addition, see, at the moment, special programmes, adapted programmes for children, not only for Koroška and the Šalejska Valley, are also being implemented at the Institute of Education, the unit in Slovenj Gradec. That is to say, from now on, these experts you spoke of will come, I don't know, from Ljubljana, from Celje, from Maribor, causing costs while Koroška will be lost. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] if experts or institutions are also located in a local environment, then this cooperation is much better and much more effective. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u249	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u250	I cannot agree with the first part of your implementation because these institutions – those who will be better, more fully equipped – will be able to do better for the whole area covered by them than they have done so far. This will help, support schools in Koroška better, because it will be more complete because the professional team will be stronger than it has been before. But I agree, and as I said at the outset, I understand your concern for jobs in Koroška, because these people are still bringing them into the environment. I think it's useful that you've asked this question and we'll make sure that we know very well whether it's really wise or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u251	General debate, Mr. Zanoskar?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u252	Yeah. No offense, but it's three regions that will somehow be deprived of certain things. It is also about what you yourself have said, job losses, and not least, as you yourself said, you will think about this in the process of reorganisation. I think that a general discussion based on Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure would be appropriate, but there may still be a crystallization of some answers to our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u253	Okay. On the proposal by Mr Matjaž Zanoskar to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education to his question, the National Assembly will decide on Tuesday, 23 October 2012, in the framework of the vote. We move on to the next question. The Minister of Infrastructure and Space will be asked by Mrs Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u254	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! There are also many questions about the difficulties of putting infrastructure facilities into space, and today's meeting is no exception. My question also relates to this area, namely the preparation of the State Spatial Plan for the Motorway at Jelsane–Postojna. There have been many discussions, few binding documents and no shovels have yet been planted on the site of the necessary highway. The first initiatives and plans were launched in 1968. The first official initiative for the preparation of the State Spatial Plan was presented by the Ministry of State in 2005. During last year, a complementary initiative for the preparation of the State Spatial Plan was presented, some variant studies were presented, and we are still quite far from adopting the State Spatial Plan, until the construction itself. Croatia has taken the highway across the river to the border crossing of the Hole-Yelšana. The following year Croatia joins the European Union, so we rightly expect additional road loads on the Jelsane-Ilirska Bistrica route and onward towards Postojna. The current road loads are high mainly due to daily migration and transit transport and summers due to the tourist season. Facing the fact that the construction of the railway along the Illyrian Bistrica is also being delayed, that there are numerous civil initiatives that oppose the installation of the highway, that the municipalities where the motorway is to take place are also unharmonised that the state treasury is empty, the day when we can take this highway is moving far into the future. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, What activities do you plan on doing in this regard in your mandate? I know it's unappreciative to predict numbers or dates, but despite all that, we want to hear your assessment: When could the government have adopted a state space plan? When would we be able to take a ride after this section of the highway for the first time? Given the constant difficulties in putting various infrastructure facilities into space and the longevity of procedures, I am interested in: When can we expect the first major legislative changes that will significantly deplete and speed up these procedures? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u255	Mr. Minister Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u256	Thank you very much for that question. If I can answer with one sentence what the objectives of this mandate are if they are fully met; the objective is to actually put this route through the adoption of the State Spatial Plan into a space to define it in two sub-sections, so that this subsection in the lower part, from Jelšan to the point of reference of the future corridor against the current motorway connection, can be implemented earlier. In this regard, a consensus in last year was reached by the mayors of all the municipalities that are being Tangled in this connection, and I think that this decision has also been made positively. Of course, the aim is to build at least the first part of this route within a period of two years of adoption of the State Spatial Plan. As you have already said, prior to 2011, professional bases were developed to define the most appropriate corridor of this highway connection, especially in the area of one of the municipalities where all variants have been severely affected by the existing population area. Unfortunately, the objective of these studies has not been achieved, they have not provided a single reply, nor have they somehow led to an appropriate decision on the basis of which these options could be assessed in terms of environmental, agricultural and other aspects. As a result, in my mandate, it was decided that the most appropriate route of the motorway would be found directly through a study of options in the DN preparation process and that three variants of the route would be studied in the study. The westernmost against Chebulovica, central towards Razdrdem and the eastmost towards Postojna. In this lower part, where all three routes on some exact front of the Illyrian Bistrica stream, there are no great dilemmas. We have more or less two options that can be developed in such a way that they will not be disputed in any way: not from a housing, not from an environmental and not from an agricultural point of view. As a result, it is also an ambition that, at the time that we arrive at the final route, we can also carry out this part more quickly and further. As a result, this VAT will be divided into two sub-sections, as we have the case on the northern part of the 3rd development axis, where this process is divided into four sub-sections. So it's an ambition that by the end of the year, somewhere by the end of the year, we'll have to clear these options -- let me put it simply: the one that has the least minuses and the most pluses, because none of these will have just any pluses, we're aware of that now. The one most acceptable in all these aspects will also be identified as the most appropriate in strong cooperation with local communities. It is an ambition to adopt the State Spatial Plan by the end of the following year, in 2014, after confirming the selected variant in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and also to implement this route in 2015. Of course, assuming an adequate financial structure, which will in some way be within the framework of a public-private partnership, in particular in connection with the procedures that we will be taking in the coming months, when we will look on the basis of an international call for concessionaire for the management of the entire motorway network in the Republic of Slovenia. In parallel, we will also look for potential partners to build missing motorway sections. It is said, on the third development axis of Drazenci-Gruškovje and in this part against Jelshan. In parallel with this interim period, these few years are said, but we want to improve the traffic gap on the existing state road and the existing link between the existing road link to the Existence in such a way that, through the modernisation of the existing road, through measures on individual parts of this link, we can make the best possible flow especially for passenger vehicles. In this context, we are also planning some measures for the next six months in the area of individual municipalities on which they are already being implemented and concluded during this period. Some, however, will be involved in this or the following year.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u258	Thank you. I'll use the rules of procedure and ask for a supplement. Although I am satisfied with the answer, especially with the deadline. I am confident that the Ministry will provide all the necessary guidance to make this happen. I would also like to ask for the Minister's vision of amendments to the legislation. He didn't give me the right answer to that point. We all know that there is an average time to house these infrastructure facilities, which is said to be the preparation of state spatial plans for more than six years, and this is very much today. I'd like to ask you in this direction for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u259	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u260	Thank you very much for this opportunity to complement. As you know, it was the first, let's say, minimalist step in this direction of simplifying legislation made in July this year with these smaller novelties of spatial legislation. Next, we are planning a little bigger in the coming months, in such a way that this amended legislation on space regulation and building could enter into force somewhere by the middle of next year. It is a law on the regulation of space, spatial planning and the law on the placement of spatial arrangements of State importance in the space. Instead of these three laws, we intend to refer one law to the National Assembly in a procedure that will regulate this area in its entirety, the law on the regulation of space, and another law on the construction of buildings that would regulate the area of the construction of buildings from A to Z in a much simpler way than before. Something similar applies to this legislation in the area of space regulation. All the attempts that have been made so far in recent years, which I believe have been made to improve the situation, have proved inadequate. Some of the additions that have been adopted have, unfortunately, still extended the procedures for placing individual accommodations in the space. There is still a very big problem in spatial planning at local level. Here we intend to amend this legislation through greater autonomy to local communities and through greater powers of one ministry in particular, saying that the ministry, which is responsible for a space that will at some point have to cut through a given situation and make decisions, is shortening this time, because we are still going to have very long periods of action. Our ambition is that by the end of the year the National Assembly will have this legislation under consideration. At the same time, it would also be presented in a public debate, which would have to be an expert argument. If we all make an appropriate effort together, I believe that we are all able to adopt these two laws by spring next year and then enforce them in the spring months. The aim is also to leave as little matter as possible to the sub-legislative acts, to be as many solutions as possible in laws and to regulate only individual implementing measures through sub-legislative acts, and not the substantive part of the legislation that we are witnessing today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u261	Thank you very much. We move on to the next question. The Minister of Finance, Dr Janez Šuštersič, will ask Mrs Polonca Komar a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u262	Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! You recently returned from America, where you travelled with the task of finding financial investors to cover a hole in the budget. We are interested in the reasons behind the decision of the Ministry of Finance to issue bonds on the US market. There are doubts in the public about the optimalness of this decision, so please explain the reasons and risks for issuing the bonds of the Republic of Slovenia on the US market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u263	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u264	Your Honor! Thank you for your question. Let me first say something about the reasons, although it may seem that we haven't talked much about this, that this was some kind of a hypnotic decision that was made in relation to other problems that we had. That is not the case, in fact, this decision has matured at the Ministry of Finance for a long time since I took up the post of Minister, and a visit has already been made by the Treasury in the United States, where they have checked this possibility, including the procedures for issuing the bond in dollars. At that time, it was found to be interesting. Above all, it was that key argument for us to talk to different investors there than here; it is said that you have another backdrop of investors like, say, in the European market. Anyone who wants to buy bonds or who is resident in the United States does not necessarily do so in the euro market. Most, those who were interested in our bonds, did not buy them before, but some already, in the euro market, did not buy them. So this expansion of the back of possible investors was the main reason. However, such an issue is complicated, it is necessary to go through a whole bunch of legal procedures that are different, even the rules on communication are very strict, the rules on prospectuses – only one detail, we had some presentations and we carried them with us, but we had to take them after each meeting because they are such requirements, and we could leave there only what was an official prospectus. Thus, the decision was based mainly on this. Now, we hear a lot of questions about why we did not commit ourselves to the euro market earlier. There was a favorable period at the beginning of the year, but I think it took a week. This was another reason why they thought very seriously about the dollar and perhaps other currencies. In fact, the euro market is very, as it is called, volatile and income-generating in the euro market or prices at which you can issue are not only up to us, depending on the whole lot of other things. At that time, as I said, the spring was a very short period, which was mainly caused by some favourable developments mainly in the euro area as a whole, and then the matter immediately went up because of Greece, the Greek elections and so on. Later, Slovenia became the focus of attention due mainly to problems in the banking sector. This is not always a good time, nor in Europe. As far as the risks are concerned. The main risk referred to is exchange rate risk, changes in the dollar/euro ratio. We have completely protected ourselves against this risk with the instruments available. We haven't talked about this much since there's usually a lot to talk about in this business practice in the financial markets, but we actually did this a few minutes Friday after the bonds were issued. Thus we have completely eliminated the currency risk and even in view of the expected movements in the markets, this foreign exchange operation even reduces our real costs of issuance, does not increase them, despite the fact that something has been paid for it, but the actual cost is lowering. Was this decision also optimal in terms of returns and so on? I think so. Then on Thursday, Friday, even now at the beginning of the week, in particular from abroad, we heard a lot of very positive comments, in particular the scope of the interest that was here, I think there was about 12 billion interest, of course not all at this price which was finally offered. Other countries that issued dollar bonds this year noted much less interest, even though it was Denmark or the Netherlands; Slovakia was also Israel. So no one has chosen such an interest by order. This is already known in the euro markets where part of this demand has moved; our bond has become more liquid, and incomes have been reduced today, as a result of the anticipated failure to issue bonds. If I'm just comparing [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Yes, very briefly. The purchase of this bond is 5 and a half percent, with this currency exchange real 5.3. At the beginning of 2011, 4,375 — with coupons — was issued in substantially better ratings. The difference between these two is 22 million a year. In the most difficult conditions for the country, this is certainly a good business, which enables us, as we say, for a few months to get rid of this stigma of the country, which everyone is watching, when they will kneel down and ask for any help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Mirko Brulc will ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franc Bogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Although the Minister is absent, I would ask a question and ask for an oral answer. Otherwise, colleague Jože Velenja is already a principle of this problem and there will be one answer for both. Slovenia has committed itself to meeting a range of environmental objectives, particularly in the field of waste management. We have relatively good results in separation and very bad results in disposal because we have no deposits. Reason – the country has left responsibility for the construction of waste treatment plants, which are regional facilities, arrangements between municipalities and here I have quite a few bitter experiences how this cannot be agreed on – because the neighbouring municipality would have its own waste treatment centre and even a incinerator or would drive waste to Tržič, Italy, etc. We're still idiots in this Slovenia. In the operational programme, there was a constant change in the number of regional centres. During a period of time, it was agreed that there would be two centres; one in Cyprus, the other in Goriška. Then there was a center in Logatco that wouldn't live. The arrangement is now left to the municipalities again, depending on the capacity of the mayors or municipal administrations, where the centre is envisaged, if they can convince them that they would also drive the waste to their centre. According to the latest information, most of the interior, karst and southern coastal municipalities decide to join the Ljubljana Centre. This raises questions about the economic viability of the new mountain centre, so I ask the minister: What will it do to make the inhabitants of Slovenia approximately the same burden by paying for waste treatment? This price must not depend on the ability or incompetence of mayors or municipal authorities to negotiate, but must be of the interest of the State that these rates are as low as possible. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u267	Thank you very much. As I understand from you, Mr Brulc, you wish to hear Mr Bogovic's oral reply at the next meeting. We move on to the next question. Mrs Tamara Vont will ask the Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u268	Thank you very much. My parliamentary question will certainly not come up with sympathy and approval, but it is probably not meant to do so, at least so. Some Roma days ago, some ten of them were expected to be in the Municipality of Škocjan to receive decisions on the demolition of buildings – or as an example of a roof. I hope this is not a response to the Ombudsman's special report on the situation of Roma in the south-east of Slovenia. It is clear that matters are within the competence of local communities, but it is increasingly showing that there should be active cooperation between both local communities and Roma and state institutions. In this mandate, the Roma theme, the distinguished minister, was placed in your ministry, and I am, of course, referring the question to you: Do you think, for example, the demolition of existing facilities would help solve the problems of Roma and the surrounding population in the area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u269	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u270	Thank you very much. It is true that the area of Roma issues has moved to the Ministry of the Interior, but it has not crossed over the area of construction inspections or the areas of work of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Indeed, we, as the Ministry of the Interior, have nothing to do with any decisions on demolitions. It is therefore very difficult to answer this question, nor do I have the data that such decisions would be issued anywhere. What I managed to find in our records is as follows. The construction inspection requested the Šentjernej Police Station to assist in the process of registering illegal objects in that Roma settlement. The police station commander has also approved the so-called assistance or assistance in official action and the matter will be carried out in the coming days. It is therefore a matter of registering illegal objects and not demolishing them. I have no record of any demolition. However, if I try to take advantage of this time, I will say: Slovenia is one of the few countries in the European Union that has the Roma Community Act in the Republic of Slovenia, that is the first. Secondly, on the basis of this law it has been – I also note this in a conversation with many ambassadors who actually commend Slovenia in this context. On the basis of this law, the National Programme of Action for Roma for the period 2010-2015 has been adopted, but we also have a Commission for the protection of the Roma community, also led by colleague Bogovic. The main message or the underlying event that is currently underway is as follows. Firstly, it is legalisation, so it is the legalisation of Roma settlements, and in this context I believe that this is also the event which is supposed to be in the region of St. In fact, first they want to record these illegal objects. The local communities are further tasked with trying to determine these Roma settlements and to try to legalise these settlements. So, unfortunately, I really don't have any information about any demolition going anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u271	Mrs. Tamara Vont, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u272	I have three such decisions, if you like, I can give them to you. Three demolition decisions; it's not about recording, it's about demolition. I have only opened this question for one reason, because I would like to show in essence also that it would be possible to cover this topic more meaningfully within – I mean, the Commission itself is a little bit of a mess, no offense – of a ministry or something that we could turn to all things. Actually, this is what's happening. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment answered the question about the Roma in Loka. With regard to water as a temporary emergency measure in the village, we ask the Ministry of Infrastructure, where they answer us that this is not in their domain. One of the coalition parties announced financing of infrastructure in Roma settlements for 2013, but did not talk about informal settlements; others say so. Which one? So there's no answer. Let us therefore address all the questions to the government committee dealing with this. The Commission met once, and at the end of the summer, September and as such nothing can be solved. Solutions can be found within and between ministries and are not always related to funds. I just want to know: Whom should we ask? When we ask questions in writing, we also have great difficulty in getting answers because one ministry to another ministry assumes this responsibility. This seems a little irresponsible to me, despite the fact that we have a law that we both know should be greatly changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u273	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u274	I can do it again and answer the following. The decisions you have may exist, but we do not have them in our office, nor do we have them and we are not entitled to them. Apparently, they were issued by a competent ministry. I don't know any more about these decisions. As for the basic connotation of the law and the basics, from the national programme and the activities of the commission, they go: for the first time, to legalisation. When this is done — where it will be done — the local communities are the ones who are supposed to – such as the law and the national programme – to take care of further living conditions, but I also belong to electricity, I belong to water and so on. I'm afraid I can't answer any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u275	Thank you very much. You don't want a general discussion? [[No, no, ……]] Question sent to the Minister [[...]] Here you go, procedurally, Mr. Zanoskar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u276	President, we see that the interest of coalition Members and Members is great when we ask important questions for our country – one is here, and I see one. I would like to propose that, due to austerity measures, we do not spend so much energy in this great hall that we go to the positive Slovenia office to discuss; we will make you coffee because we are already a little tired. Or I propose that the meeting be suspended and that it continue tomorrow, when the coalition Members and Members of Parliament are also present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u277	Dear Mr Zanoškar, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I inform you that, given that the time of the Rules of Procedure has been set in advance and that there are respected ministers here, we will by no means change the space. But I understand you, and I have also counted and found that we are all together, if we are counted correctly, 19 Members and Members. He is indeed a member of the Slovenian People's Party and others from Positive Slovenia, here you are right. But we're just going to continue the session. Dr Janez Šušteršič, Minister of Finance, will ask Mr Aloj Potočnik a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u278	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister! On several occasions, we discussed the collection of taxes, contributions and other obligations on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and on the role of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia in this regard. The single opinion of the panellists is that we need a highly trained, efficient and well-organised tax administration, especially at a time which is not good for taxpayers. In order to achieve this, it is imperative to increase the number of employees in control, I am thinking mainly of inspectors and controllers, as well as of workers involved in informing taxpayers. The number of inspectors doing the most difficult work has fallen dramatically in recent years. In so doing, to mention that the training of the tax inspector lasts for many years, it cannot depend solely on self-education. In the meantime, tax evasion is not in place, but it goes on. Material incentives would also be subject to serious consideration, regardless of the time in which we are. So I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General: How and when will you act in this area? Is the efficiency of tax collection, the increase in the number of tax control workers and their training among the priorities of this government? And the key is: Is the step from words to actions also seen in the 2013 and 2014 budgets of the Republic of Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u279	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u280	Thank you for your question and also for your interest in the good work of the tax administration. I think that's our common interest. But first, I'd like to mention some of the things we have in mind. In line with the government's recruitments, we will propose to split up into two parts; one part that will be smaller and will carry out legal tasks at the Ministry; and another part that will be larger and will carry out inspections of tasks under the tax administration in the future, and a few people who will be able to deal with anything else will come along. The merger of the tax and customs administrations, of course, will also make it possible not only to strengthen matters human resources, but to better organise the work. With a new tax-customs service law – as we will call it – perhaps a national financial office or something like that – we can also give them other powers, a different way of working and thus provide these formal or institutional conditions for their work. Otherwise, I do not link the number of inspectors, the number of employees at the DURS with efficiency. I think there's a lot of things that we could do better with the powers they have. I think today, to be very frank, the tax administration is not only part of the solution, but sometimes it is part of the problem. These are the things that no new people need to save, or they don't need more people, they probably need someone new compared to the ones they have. There are a lot of things they can do, and they don't need the Minister's decision or the Minister's consent, but it's good if they have the Minister's support; and they will have it. For example, the last time I tried a press conference was when there was talk of only two inspectors working on tax havens. But you know, how many inspectors he's working on is an autonomous decision by the director of the tax administration. If he considers that some inspectors are less needed, somewhere else he is more needed, he has all the necessary powers and all the necessary powers to direct them to work differently and he does not have to go to press conferences to do so. Second thing. There are a whole bunch of examples of us on the other hand – on the one hand, Members ask someone else, including the unions, and who else, when we step on our fingers, we get a whole bunch of information from the economy about how sometimes the tax administration does things that are not necessary and which can also be a burden, an unnecessary burden on the economy. For the last time, the Alliance of Accountants, for example, pointed to the problems still posed by the new tax information system. This year we had €60 million wrongly written in public revenues due to this information system, and they went to the wrong cash registers, etc. There is a huge amount of executions that are unfounded, which are due to uncoordinated records, a huge amount of time spent by inspectors for this, a huge amount of time and nerve of the debtors, who have to prove that this is not the case. There are many cases of uncoordinated operations by inspector or controller or a lower-level reference to give information that you have to account for such and such a tax, and then someone at a higher level says that you should do something different. Once again, the costs, the nerves, the time and burden of this adjustment are passed on to the debtors. I had one such experience myself, so that I would not be too long now; at the end, when we had done everything, I received a letter telling me that they could not deal with my role because it was sent by post and was not signed by hand – after they had saved everything. The problem was that there were always other officials on the letters I sent signed on the left hand side, but the problem was that on the right hand side there was always the same director of the tax administration – those who were dealing with me at the time, of course, completely unfounded. In short, what I would like to say is that I am sure that most people in the tax administration are doing well and want to do well, but there are also many cases when work is done unprofessionally, when looking for things that you don't have to look for when it comes to finding out when it gets involved in unjustified procedures; and all of this, of course, increases costs. The tax administration has recently received a new CEO, and I expect him to choose a team that will be professionally strong in the tax area, which will be able to set priorities that will also be able to say good-bye to those who may be working poorly and who do not know how to set the right priorities and instead will educate those who will [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u281	Mr. Potočnik, do you have a supplement to the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u282	I would take advantage of it, although I must say that the Minister has mentioned more problems than I have, and I think he already said in his opening speech that taxes are a problem for him and not just a solution. If I remember correctly, that's what was said today. [[...]] However, I would compare two tax offices which are very similar after the organisation and performance of the tasks, namely the Celov tax office and the tax office in Kranj. They have about the same number of debtors, Kranski even more. The number of inspectors in Kranj is 15, in Celovac 45, by the fact that the tax inspectors in Austria have only taxes in their workaround, but not the contributions that other institutions dealing with the payment of pension and health insurance are looking at there. I would say one more thing; in Austria it is organised – and of course I also accept your initiative – a special department dealing with black work or a grey economy. In Celovac, there are 15 inspectors involved, that's as much as we do with the whole issue of the tax system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Minister for Complementary Response.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u284	I don't think there was a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u285	Thank you very much. It's mag. Alenka Bratušek, please, you have a question for the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr. Žig Turk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, when you moved to the place where you are sitting now, I understand why you have been with us for so long. So now I really welcome you to the Group of Positive Slovenia, because there is no other Member. But I'm happy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u287	I've been to this point many times in many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u288	Mr President, in principle, the chairman does not go into the word, but well. I also welcome all the ministers who are with us, and I am glad that they are answering the questions of Positive Slovenia. At the same time, I am sad that no other Member is interested. Mr Turk, at the previous meeting, my colleague Prevc asked you about the reorganization of secondary schools in Kranj. I read my tape again, but you didn't tell me why you were going. So I'd like to ask: On what basis did you have this reorganisation? Why is this supposed to happen on January 1st? Because in the Children with Special Needs Act because of the same problems that something should not be done in the middle of the year, you move or propose a delay to September 1. The last most crucial issue is that you said that this reorganisation was also supported by the mayor of the municipality of Kranj. That's not true. The mayor of the Municipality of Kranj has put you on a lie. I've checked, I've checked on the municipal council. Is it true that our mayor supports this reorganisation? This was one of the few arguments listed. So now, I'm asking besides what I asked earlier: Does this fact change your desire to reorganize?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Dr. Taga Turk, Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u290	Thank you very much. There was a lot of substantive answers, I think in the previous session, Mr. Prevc. The fact is that we create a network of secondary schools in Slovenia according to the number of populations that are enrolled in a certain environment in secondary schools, even in accordance with the needs of the economy, and we are particularly concerned about the preservation of the professions that society needs. The number of students in Slovenia fell from more than 104 000 in 2000 to less than 79,000 students this year. In regulating the school network, we will also pay more attention to increasing enrolment in vocational and professional schools in the future, in accordance with the Coalition Treaty. The reorganisations of these schools into school centres have been taking place since 2003 and we have many good cases, successful cases where such school centres are an important source of knowledge, offer many programmes, run on European projects, develop higher education and so on. So far, we have always said that due to the reorganisations there will be no relocation, there will be no abolition of the programmes. This is what we stick to, and this is how it will be done when we reorganise in Kranj. Since nothing changes for students because they go to the same school, to the same teacher, to the same class, to the same classroom, to the same gym, there is no reason, of course, that they could not do so on 1st or 2nd January, on 1st February or on any date, because it is mainly a measure that changes the organisation or organizational unit that deals with the education of students. You know that by law, the founder of secondary schools is the state that determines and regulates this network. For all reorganisations, we are talking to directors or directors, as we have also done in Kranj. The director of both centres, which will unite in Kranj, supports our moves, at least my information is such, I have not personally met them. It is also my information that the Mayor of the Municipality of Kranj supports the merger of these two centres. It may also be that he supported them when he first encountered this problem in our ministry, and it may also be that he then received opinions from various political sides, that it is the order for such things to be resisted, but we are convinced that such a merger for the development of secondary and also vocational education in Kranj is good. In this particular case, we negotiated, we wanted to talk without having to do so or being ordered by the Swiss Union, which did not participate in the discussions, which, of course, we regret. We all know together that some professions from Kranj have already disappeared; for example, all professions from the textile or rubber industry. The trend of decline in Kranj needs to be halted, including with reorganisations and better leadership. We want to maintain all programs, despite a small number of students.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? [[Yeah.]] Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u292	You haven't answered my question if the fact that the mayor doesn't support it changes the decision of you or the Ministry. However, before you mention the names that support it in the National Assembly, the mayor assured you that he never supported it. He was at a meeting where he was aware of the changes, but he did not support it. Yes, it is a matter of state because it is the founder of the state, but it is all happening at the level of the congregation, so I suppose that's why you invited him to the meeting. And once again: Does that change the fact? But until next time, I will also check with the two directors, because you have now stated for yourself that you are not sure if this is true – or only your sources have told you – and I do not know who told you that the things you are talking about here should hold. But in the specific case of the mayor, you've made a false statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Dr. Giga Turk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u294	I find it very difficult to judge what someone said. I have assurances from the Director of my Directorate about the support of the Kranj mayor, and I believe him more than I believe you. In answer to the question whether and how much this changes – secondary schools go beyond the scope and terrain of one congregation. They are not municipal, they are the founder of the state, the state is responsible for this network. Of course, we would like the support of the local community, if there is no support for it, first of all we would be interested in the arguments of the other party that the support has turned into opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u295	Thank you very much. You obviously want to discuss the answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u296	I want this, Mr. Minister, what you just said, I don't think you should ever allow yourself again. You can trust your director more than I do, but you haven't got me on a lie yet, and I've just got you. I'll bring you a magnetogram from the municipal council, where I'll put you and your director on a lie. I ask that the Minister deceives about what he is saying – at least the Positive Slovenia Group, because for other Members such questions are not worth sitting here. I therefore propose that we discuss this. Mr. Minister, earlier your colleague had warned one of my colleagues that he should behave. I'm not gonna do that, but I'd expect a minister, a doctor of science, to know what a bonton is.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u297	Thank you very much. The discussion on the answer will take place in the event that tomorrow it will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of the vote – tomorrow, Tuesday 23 October. We turn to the question of Mrs Alenka Pavlič, who has a question for the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, mag. Andrea Vissiak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u298	On the proposal for a new law on pension and disability insurance, as we understand from the well-known explanations of the bill, you will also intervene in the area of so-called occupational pensions. This is a compulsory supplementary pension insurance, or an increase in the remuneration of the insurance period and is intended for workers working on particularly difficult and health-related harmful parts or parts which cannot be performed successfully after a certain age. This is the occupational pension insurance carried out by the Fund for Compulsory Additional Pension Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia and the fund manager is the Capital Company for Pension and Disability Insurance. At the end of 2009, there were 40 thousand 750 insured and the value of the funds was EUR 263 million. According to the law in force, compulsory supplementary pension insurance was compulsory for all those jobs for which, under the rules applicable to the application of this law, the insurance period with an increase was considered. As mentioned in the proposal for new legislation, compulsory supplementary pension insurance faces shortcomings. However, you are convinced that an additional pension insurance obligation can be transformed into an effective occupational insurance scheme aimed at drawing early retirement pensions for those workers who work in jobs that are difficult and harmful to health or are unable to perform successfully after a certain age. The current regulation concerns a system of pre-defined rights, as the amount of the occupational pension is fixed in advance. This means that the occupational pension is equal to the old age and the insurance age of the insured person in the institution by increasing the age added to the compulsory supplementary pension. In the future, you propose that the current system be transformed into a system of predetermined contributions where the amount of the occupational pension will no longer be fixed but will depend on the amount of the funds raised in the fund's personal account at the time of the exercise of the right to a professional pension. I'm asking you: What will therefore be the contribution to the financial resources being sufficient? How will this affect the height of an individual’s pension? In what way will you patch up the existing manna for payments today, which in some ways allows for a legal one-off raise of certain beneficiaries? As we know, it's a 15-million-dollar hole right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u299	Thank you very much. The word is from the Minister of Magic. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u300	Your Honor, it's true! This is another of the holes that this government inherited. You rightly pointed out that the issue of occupational pensions dates back to the 2000 pension reform when the paradox was created. On the one hand, we had a system of pre-paid contributions and rights were created on the basis of a system of pre-defined rights. And all right and all right, as long as the contributions covered these predetermined rights and not in a wide variety of professions. It called for a hole, and today we must, unfortunately, cover this hole as well in the pension reform. That is why we have already had three to four hours of coordination meetings with trade unions to fill this hole. I must say that they have been successful and relatively constructive, that part of this will have to be ensured. Some of these burdens of the past will have to be covered. However, I would like to tell you one thing that, from 2000 until today, no one has tackled this problem, even though this problem has yawned and the hole has been growing deeper in the 12 years. I would like to see a number of positive Slovenia species sitting on the opposite side, who knew about this problem or could at least start solving it, not starting to solve it. Now it's come down to us, and we'll figure it out. What do we suggest? Firstly, the rewinding of the list of jobs for which it is compulsory to include in professional insurance since the system in force is completely obsolete and does not take account of the consequences of progress under working conditions. The private sector is not the only one suffering from this. Many in the private sector are concerned that employers have to pay this additional compulsory pension insurance for jobs where there are no more risks due to the progress of agriculture and in detail. Let me mention that, say, even in the country that pays this compulsory supplementary pension insurance for as many as 25,000 people, for example, at the Ministry of Defence, that is several thousand more than even soldiers. I wonder who all this extra compulsory pension insurance is paid for. I believe that this should be paid for those who participate in it operationally or in any way; but – no! It pays for a few thousand more people. Probably the police and a lot more. And no one, sir, has ever done that before. Because we did this, he was a problem. We will resolve the problem in cooperation with the social partners.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Mrs. Alenka Pavlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u302	Mr. Minister, you were answering the second part of the question that I now wanted to ask. In the first part of what I asked you – you did not answer; how much will the contribution to the financial resources be sufficient – you did not answer; how will this affect the amount of the individual’s pension – you have not answered and how will you patch it up, let’s just say that you have answered that. [[...]] But if I'm going to look at the other part now, I'm wondering: How will you convince the beneficiaries that they will not raise their pensions at once? In what way will you stimulate the gradual rise or payment of these pensions? In part, you have already answered this question, which I now quote: How do you feel about first approaching the preparation of a more appropriate classification of those jobs, or the work on which individuals work in difficult and healthy working environments? And I'm also curious: How do you view the comparison: on the one hand, drivers who do not have the opportunity to obtain professional pensions and on the other hand drivers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u304	Let's go to the back first. There are these categories both in railways and in road transport, and it is not true that they are somewhere else. It's the right thing to do. Second thing. That's right. See, on how to solve and fill a hole and to what extent it will challenge and how much this will affect the individual's budget, negotiations are under way. Therefore, it is impossible to explicitly state the amount at this point, since this amount also depends on the case to the case. Let me also tell you this case, for example, some who have been involved in this supplementary compulsory pension insurance, would very much like to return to the old system of one bag, as it were. For with the year 2000, individual pension accounts were opened, individual ones. Before that, he was together. Those who did not have sufficient funds for a professional pension from 2000 to 2012 – as I said, the contributions were fixed and the right was set in advance. For some, contributions were too low for this pre-expected right and for some contributions were large enough for the pre-expected right. For example, here are police officers in very different situations of visa, say, pilots. Cases are therefore very different. It is therefore impossible to answer your question how many individuals: it depends on how much has been collected in his individual account and, of course, how much contributions have been paid and to what extent is the so-called mixture. For many also draw benefits from the benefits of the pension age, which was before the year 2000. Thus, the problem is much more complex than you point out, and we are now solving it in social dialogue with all involved. It is true that there will be a compromise somewhere in the middle: between these so-called expected rights and between these so-called contributions paid for these expected rights. That's right. We're preparing to rewind the list. A lot has changed during this time and, in my opinion, there is a lot of injustice, because some workers are entitled to this compulsory supplementary pension insurance, and elsewhere they are not. Once again: I would be very happy to have this problem opened five, six or ten years earlier. With great ease, this system was put in place and adopted in 2000 in which holes were formed shortly after adoption. Today is a problem that we are solving; we are solving it as part of other problems of pension reform and I believe that we will also be successful in solving it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural question? Do you have a request for a hearing? [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u306	Thank you very much. I don't know why you're so surprised if I have this request. I guess I have a right under the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u307	Of course, and I wasn't surprised.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u308	I propose that, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we hold a debate in view of the fact that the Minister himself wants a wider debate – as he has now said – and where he can explain again – which he has not replied to, what will be the contribution – perhaps by then – that the financial resources will be sufficient and how this will affect the amount of the individual's pension. Above all, I was delighted at the fact that they were going to blow up jobs. I hope that the carriers will get their professional pensions back, because this area is very well known, and in the previous government was the Minister of Economy. We met at many of the openings of Inter-European where he was happy to open new warehouses, and he was also at the opening of this controversial purchase of trucks during the presidency of Mr Andrej Lošin. That is why I think he is extremely well aware of the situation in transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, which is Tuesday, 23 October, in the framework of the votes. It's mag. Mr Leila Hercegovac, who has a question on behalf of Mr Tomaž Gantar's Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u310	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, Ministers, Members and Members of the Positive Slovenia! In Europe and Slovenia, the need to provide health services is on the rise. The reason for this is, of course, more: demographic change, population ageing, increase in chronic diseases, other diseases, as a result of lifestyles, the demands of people for new, more difficult diagnostic and therapeutic methods. As a result, the volume of services and their associated costs are increasing, and health treasury stability is becoming increasingly questionable. Change is necessary. The European Commission sees one way to solve problems by introducing new services based on new models and new information and telecommunications solutions and is expected to be more effective. Health and home care services at a distance are services of the future for an ageing Europe. Dear Minister, Slovenia does not have a strategy to implement the rapidly evolving area of the provision of distance health services using information and telecommunications technologies, including telecommunications services. The upgrading of the health system by 2020 should therefore have a priority as one of the two strategic documents of the Government or the Ministry of Health, and this is the optimisation of data flow, information and analysis. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister: Will you also introduce a long-distance health service into the EHealth system? My question is really just a contribution to the national health strategy. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u312	Good evening, everyone. Thank you for that. Therefore, the national telemedicine strategy is essentially being prepared and these basic guidelines will be prepared by the end of this year. In fact, he holds to what you said. It is said that different countries have this in some important area, given that, on the one hand, it is possible to ensure adequate quality of health and, on the other hand, to achieve some rationalisation of work, which would also cost longer-term treatment. There are two projects running alongside us: one already mentioned E-health, which we have already talked about here. The important element for telemedicine is also partly E-health. In fact, EHealth will allow for the harmonisation of this information system and then also the collection, access and security of data on individual patients and the collection of relevant information in registers. This interoperable spine for these purposes is being developed and will also be ready by the end of the year and is an important step, but this long-distance health upgrade with telemedicine is also important. Something has already been done in this area, but something else is being done. In concrete terms, some of the possibilities of a telecommunications network that is available in Slovenia, I am talking here about individual projects that are already under way, this is a teleradiology that is in certain institutions; it is the right exchange of images and data and readings in the field of radiology. Then there is something done in the field of transfusion medicine, then exchanges of basic data and monitoring in some situations, such as monitoring of heart function, basic breathing functions, blood sugar and some of these pathways. The problem is that this is not largely present at the moment, because this interoperable spine is not yet in place. The other thing that we have now adopted on the previous healthcare board is a new project, that is TeleKap, which includes diagnostics on the one hand and treatment on the other. The following month, this national centre will be established within the framework of a neurological clinic. It is said that this is the treatment of acute strokes throughout Slovenia; it is said that someone will then do appropriate diagnostics, imaging at the other end of Slovenia and will receive feedback on what treatment should be done in a particular patient to minimise the consequences. I think we're doing a lot of work in this area. I say that the first part of EHealth is obviously linked to European funds, for the second part we will try to provide them, and for TeleCap we have already foreseen through the Health Council for the following year and started working already this year. Of course, there are still many possibilities of upgrades, including telemonitoring, telediagnostics, consultations. But, as we say, we need a proper link between all operators first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u314	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm glad you're bringing this in. True, in Slovenia we have a system of transfusions for the whole of Slovenia and at the last IT congress I asked what the price is. 660 million. A month to maintain the whole system is €4,000 500. So at first, there is an investment, but in the long run, it brings great financial benefits. We've already been introduced to pediatrics in intensive care, neurology, like you said, and something in radiology. Of course, we need it at the preventive level and primary for advice, for therapy, for high pressure and other reasons, because this would save a lot of money in the health treasury. In Switzerland they have an insurance company that has introduced this system and in the long term rewards its patients for visits via telecommunications, i.e. distance therapy to avoid visiting their doctor because there are 1.6 visits to a family doctor and in Slovenia between 4 and 7. So there is a lot of savings here – I mean, financial assets remain in the long run. In the Health 2020 strategy, we wrote that Slovenia is a country with a highly informed and proactive population, with an optimal network of service providers, a sustainable funding system, services are high-quality and safe and accessible to all people. I believe this will continue, and I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u315	Thank you very much. I have not observed any requests to complete the response, but if you would like, Mr. Minister, to add something else to the previous one. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u316	As we say, the possibilities are extremely high. But it is the starting point that we need to make before, this connection and system unification between operators, and then the upgrade is much simpler, and we are working on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič has a question for the Minister for Infrastructure and Space of Mr Zvonk Černač and Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mag. Merry Christmas. Here you go, Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u318	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, hello! I'm asking you something that's very up to date today. They received the question in advance, and I believe that they have prepared themselves for an answer so that they do not get some dry-cleaning answer, as we have usually received in the past. I expect you to give me an answer today, just like it does. According to SURS data, the value of construction works performed in July 2012 is 18.3% lower than in July 2011. The decline in construction works is so high and reflects an alarming situation in the Slovenian economy. Recognizing that the loss of one job in construction means the loss of two jobs in related industries, the construction sector needs to be revived by the construction of major infrastructure projects that have been planned and delayed for many years, from the mandate to the mandate, and for which financial resources in the European Structural Funds are reserved in the current financial perspective 2007-2013. Further start-up and development of the Slovenian economy cannot be planned without building the necessary infrastructure, for which, during the financial and economic crisis, the only concrete financial resources are to the European Investment Bank and the European Structural Funds, and we are lagging behind mainly due to unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles. A few hundred million euros of investment in the construction of infrastructure facilities would have a multiple effect on the whole economy, maintaining and opening new jobs and raising economic growth, without which we cannot imagine future sustainability, at least not the long-term sustainability of public finances, nor the medium-term. And the famous question they've been waiting for all day: Until when does the government intend to observe the decline of the economy, which point of negative development trend must we come to in order to take concrete measures, in the right order of course, and incentives to start the economy? Here, too, in implementation today, Mr President of the Government said that the rehabilitation of the banking system would not do much good if we did not solve the economy in parallel. So without economic development, without economic growth, there will be no sustainability of public finances. The only thing that can save us are large infrastructure projects and a few hundred million euros compared to the billions that we will give to rehabilitate the banking system, but once the banking system is fixed, if the economy is not healthy, there will be no credit-takers because they will not be credit-worthy [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Minister Zvonko Blackach. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u320	Thank you very much for that question. One part of this response is certainly in the part relating to state projects to major state projects, particularly in the area of infrastructure. However, a large part of the response is to the appropriate stable state of the banking and financial system, to the fact that we have the appropriate banks supporting healthy projects, which are some support to the economy and which provide support for the implementation of new investments. Here is the great task of this national council, which you have already done, but you will have to do it again tomorrow, in connection with the so-called bad bank. If we do not clear these balance sheets, then this path position, which we have witnessed now — at least two years too long — will continue in the banking system and many of the investments that could be made in the relevant sound banks will continue. Otherwise, for comparison, I can say the area of our ministry. Only 81 million investment funds were used in the Ministry in 2011, when investments at this state level should already be intensively initiated. This year, there will be twice as many, around €180 million. In the future, in 2013, over 300 million euros. This year was one of those where we had to weigh in order to ensure some stability of public finances and prepare appropriate foundations for the future. It is clear, however, that major investment projects are being implemented over a longer period of time and that if we were to prepare over a period of past years, we could now launch some projects more quickly, for which we are only now preparing suitable bases. Nevertheless, there are quite a few of these projects that we have launched and will be implemented in the coming years, especially in 2013-2014 and 2015. In the area of transport infrastructure, more than € 2 billion and a half of investment projects will take place in the next period. In the area of modernisation of railway infrastructure, the projects of electrification and reconstruction of the railway line and modernisation of the level crossings of Prague-Hodoš have already been mentioned, the ongoing project of modernisation of the existing railway line on the Divača-Koper route of over EUR 100 million. We are preparing or selecting an operator to introduce a radio digital telecommunications system on a rail network of over 100 million euros. We are preparing bases for the Drazenci-Gruškovje motorway section. In the coming year, investment works will start on anti-group fences on highways, on all motorway sections of more than €50 million, on Maribor’s airport infrastructure, Jožet Pučnik’s airport – both slightly less than €100 million and over €100 million. In the field of energy - hydropower plants, each is worth about 100 million euros and so on. I think we are preparing intensively for those projects and programmes that should already be ready and could be implemented even faster if we had a prepared basis for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u322	Maybe a sentence or two. There's probably no one in this room who'd be sure that there's no need to rehabilitate the banking system. Without the resolution of the banking system, as soon as possible and as quickly as possible – the economy in Slovenia will not be able to provide and will not be realized. I hope that you too are talking to economists, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who are telling you exactly that there is no funding and that is why banks need to be saved. I hope that this most important project will not be blocked at this time because it will be disastrous for the economy. In fact, a weak bank is a condition that we can quickly clear the bank balance sheets and, on the basis of new recapitalisers, establish the conditions for banks to start operating normally. However, as far as construction is concerned, I absolutely agree with you that there will be no start-up of construction without investment, both public infrastructure investments and public sector investments. However, we have two problems regarding public investment, you are well aware, the Minister has already said; for the first time, we have missed the preparation of state spatial plans and projects for some key infrastructure facilities – railways, roads and so on. This is where the maximum stuff is pushed forward. Secondly, the financing of these public infrastructure projects and also, as you know, models are being prepared; and [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] to finance matters. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Will you make a request to complete your response? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u324	Thank you for a fairly acceptable answer and also this incentive to understand what the real problem is. Someone said that the Ministry of Finance is key in the country of Slovenia. No, someone made a mistake. The key ministries are headed by you: the Ministry of Economy and Infrastructure and Space! These are the two most important ministries and I'd like to give them the agriculture ministry. Personally, I strongly recommend that you listen to the words of Joseph Stiglitz, the Nobel Prize winner for the economy he warned about, and he wrote: "The priority must be to promote economic growth. This can be achieved in a variety of ways, by investing the country in infrastructure, technology, education...... and so on. "The savings measures in European countries only increase social inequality. Consumption in these countries is almost gone. As the country saves, consumption is further declining. As consumption declines, the economy cannot grow, unemployment is increasing, wages are falling, social security is decreasing," she explains. Finally, it suggests that the ECB could help if, of course, this was proposed. Stiglitz also proposes debt consolidation, which would reduce interest rates and release money for productive investments. The European Central Bank is supposed to be the only institution that can take useful and important measures overnight, not as in the case of Greece: in order to save you, we must kill you first. Don't kill our economy! Our economy is sick, it needs treatment. And now! As I said before, our economic system needs an infusion directly into the vein. If you do this today at the same time as the rehabilitation of banks, we will save the Slovenian economy and thus actually gain time and we will also have a consolidated public finances and a balanced budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u326	One part is definitely this public infrastructure investment that I was talking about. But I wouldn't miss investment in the real sector, that is, in the economy. See, for these investments as well as for those public infrastructure investments, we need the right conditions, the business environment, in order to make it attractive, if you want, for foreign investors as well. I've had some serious conversations lately, including abroad, with investors interested in greenfield investments. I am not talking about buying state property, I am talking about the interest of investors for greenfield investments in Slovenia. You know what they told me? Let us discuss in Slovenia what you would like. Do you want to have investments or don't you want to have investments? We monitor what is happening, we listen to your unions – and this is the wrong world. So we need the conditions for someone with money in their pocket to invest in Slovenia. The government is therefore in charge of creating conditions. You know that through three packages of measures to promote the economy, we have prepared many measures in this particular segment of creating a more favourable, more business-friendly environment for investment. However, I must say that many of these are simply not aware in Slovenia. Not least, the local communities, which require investors who want to invest from a municipal contribution to everything else, to high land prices, etc., to simply drive away foreign investment. We have to change that, and we'll change that.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Would you like to make a proposal to discuss the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u328	Minister, thank you. That's what I'm going to say: from your mouth to God's ears. If you really do as you say now, we will all applaud, and we who are in the opposition today, as I see, are the only ones still present in this hall. Of course, Mr Vice-President, in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that a discussion be held at the next meeting on this subject. I think it would be right to hold a public debate on this issue for the sake of economic resolution and the sustainability of public finances, because there is no deficit as a result of a weak economy, but the poor economy has caused a deficit and it is therefore necessary to discuss this in fact and also to discuss it with those experts who may not be sitting on the side of the ruling coalition. In Slovenia, we may not be aware of our geostrategic position, geotransmitter position, and this gives us geopolitical power, but we have not been able to take advantage of this for more than 21 years. Maybe it's time to take a look at ourselves and see where the solutions really are. I repeat that we must help Europe, because Europe has also gone by if we want and want to save ourselves. I see Slovenia as a color TV with super HD options, which is included in the space on the specified cable instead of on broadband. Therefore, Mr Cernač, as Minister of Infrastructure, you should accelerate all infrastructure projects, connections. The second track should not wait for 2020. The second track should have started yesterday, and it would have been nice if that was the case. There are other projects. Europe today says corridor 5 and corridor 10 are already history, we are now talking about some famous TT network project or connection with the Baltic, etc. I hope there is so much better work on our part here, because in the past it has happened that we have almost been bypassed. We're really important and we have a great geostrategic position, but if we're too complicated because we're so small, they're gonna walk us around. Power is in connectivity and speed, and if we know how to make use of it, we will actually achieve development. Yeah, that's right. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Is my time up yet? No, 26, 25 seconds! Mr. Vice President, please don't pee to me. Can I just say one more thing?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u329	I'm sorry, it's just a pee machine, not me.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u330	Okay. When Mr. Minister or Vice-President visited us a while ago, I believe that the Iraqi government, which has experienced a great disaster, said that our greatest wealth is nature. And let's take advantage of that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u331	Thank you very much. Explanation. The device is beeping itself, I am not writing anything; the catalogues continue when 30 seconds before the end of your time. Your proposal that the National Assembly hold a discussion on the response of the two ministers for the next meeting will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, in the framework of the votes. We are here on Mrs Renata Brunskole's question, namely, for the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, mag. Andrea Vissiak. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u332	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted, once again! I'm asking a question to the esteemed Lord Magi. Mr Andrej Viszak, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, in connection with the appointment of heads of social work centres in Slovenia or directors or officials and staff exchanges in social security institutions before the end of the term of office. Mr Minister, according to information, the individual councils of the social work centres should be appointed directors or directors, who are due this year, despite the fulfilment of the conditions, to perform duties for a period of one year. In this regard, I ask you: What happens after one year if the reorganisation of the centres that have already been discussed by representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will not happen? Similarly, the Ministry of Human Resources Policy does not agree with the Community of Centres for Social Work of Slovenia, which has already highlighted the legality of the implementation of such procedures. Individual homes for older citizens should also receive a decision on the discharge of the whole world of the institution without explanation, which means that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has at the same time resolved the members of the Council of the institution appointed by the local community, i.e. the municipalities. At the same time, new members, representatives of the founder, were appointed. I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General: Do they hold this information? Why did the government decide on such procedures in the management and management of individual homes? I also ask you: Does such measures by the Ministry mean, on the one hand, that the directors of social work centres so far are now appointed to perform, or that they are also distrustful of, the current members of the boards of institutions of older people's homes? At least: Is it in the direction of centralisation or termination on one side of certain social work centres in Slovenia as well as the home of the elderly in Slovenia? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u333	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak, Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u334	Thank you very much. Dear and esteemed Member, Mrs Renata Brunskole, I will be happy to answer your question. First of all, regarding the reorganisation of social work centres. We currently have 62 centres for social work in the Republic of Slovenia. We have 62 directors, we probably have a few less business secretaries, we have a little less, or so many financial services and the rest of these 62 hubs. We believe that, through the rationalisation of these common services centres and in the sense of reorganisation in a dual-level way, we can also ensure rationalisation in this work without suffering this level of people who work directly with the users of social work centres, i.e. those who have contacts with people. In contrast to this process, we want to further strengthen this first level, and to develop it in environments where we see that there is a greater need for services, for social protection services and also for the presence of these social services. Of course, we find it difficult to believe that 62 directors of social work centres, together with their directors, are rational arrangements in this country. That is why we have decided to extend the mandate to all those who, during this period, have a permanent mandate to reorganise them, not to extend it to a permanent mandate, but to perform their work as duty-holders. We will start implementing the project probably in the Goren region as a pilot region next year, with the aim of establishing a regional level and this local level as a subordinate level. We would also like to combine those important professional functions at the regional level from a professional point of view, such functions as those that are not everyday, such as adoptions and the like, and we want to upgrade and strengthen those social security services that citizens need and use every day. Of course, this has nothing to do with the question of the Metlik Rest House, where the institution’s world has changed and on which this second aspect of the issue is likely to fly. By a decision of the Government since 2009, the structure and composition of the Council of the Metlik House of Rest has changed from 11 members to 7 members. I think that this is a logical move, where of these seven new members, by decision of the Government of 2009, there are four representatives of the founder, one representative of the workers, one representative of the lodgers of the House of Rest and one representative of the local community. And by the decision of the Government of October this year we have merely aligned the actual composition of the Council of the House of Rest of this Decision of 2009 – if I am not mistaken, you were then also a member of the ruling coalition. So there is no conspiracy here, there is no opposition or mistrust to the previous members of the board of the institution, but only compliance with the government's existing acts.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u336	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. I wouldn't ask you about that if you didn't actually experience exactly what you said was not the same meter for everyone. And I don't personally blame you for not misunderstanding. However, if in some centres for social parts in Slovenia we do not confirm the Director or Director again for a mandate, somewhere else, and elsewhere in the White landscape, and presumably for the performers of duty – that I will not only be about the White Landscape – it would be normal for me. All right, the reorganisation of 2014, as far as I know, is planned. All right, everybody's doing the duty. But since we know that some have been confirmed for a term of office, then something doesn't count. At that time, one really wonders whether the essence of party signs is here, or does that mean that we do not have uniform standards in this area; and also in the homes of the elderly. Chicas would have had uniform criteria, I understand – they're all psychics, it's no different. Because that was not the case and because she complained or disagreed with the Community of Centres for Social Work of Slovenia – that is why I asked you! Next thing. At the homes of the elderly, as you called them. It is true that I, too, was the previous Member and Mayor's mandate, and I recall that we have appointed the President of SLS Metlik in the home of the elderly as the representative of the local community. This man is now dismissed as a representative of the municipality in this world, he is called the representative of the local SDS elections for the mayor, from another municipality, apparently a representative of the national elections, the National Gazette. It's that there's no conspiracy. But you know, it works politically, especially it's too visible what it feels at the local level and in a small place it's extremely sensitive. The dissatisfaction of people is [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u337	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u338	The honourable Member, something other than that we have merely aligned the actual composition of the Council of the House of Rest of Metlik with the decision adopted in 2009. In fact, it used to be an 11-member world. I think it is right — if not too much — that it is seven-member. In short, we have rationalised the work, and the presence of a representative of the local community is also ensured here. I used to be the mayor of Brežice, just as you used to be mayor of Metlika, but this has nothing to do with the current composition of both and the other environment from which we are and who we probably value equally. That's one thing. The other thing is to reorganise social work centres. It is true that the project has taken place and in a way within the meaning of this a few months ago and that since then we have been mostly in those centres where we believe that the work will be organised differently, we have been relatively careful to re-confirm the nominations or mandates of the directors of social work centres. For example, imagine that we want to establish a regional level in some part, such as Dolenjska with the White Country, and imagine that the headquarters of such a regional level in the New Town will probably be what it would be like to appoint people everywhere else as director and then probably have a difficult, probably insurmountable problem in such a reorganisation. That is why we have followed this course without having any other criteria in mind or available. In fact, I do not know a case where the centre or community of social work centres would resist any human resources action by the Ministry. On the contrary! I think we are doing well and well together, but it is true that each reorganisation and especially reorganisation, when the centres no longer have 62 directors but15, causes certain vibrations, disagreements, because it is also the personal positions of individuals who will not then be so-called directors, but will probably be heads of any exhibitions or units, or whatever they will be called. There are problems, I am aware of these problems, but these problems are not at our forefront. For us, for the first time, professionally effective and, last but not least, rational work of social work centres is at the forefront.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u339	Thank you very much. I note that you wish to propose a discussion on the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u340	Dear Mr. Secretary. Thank you for your answer. I still can't get rid of the feeling, even in some way the political impact on the fact that people were obviously resolved without an explanation. I talked about this in social security institutions or in the home of the elderly. In this booklet, which I have already talked about today, the statistical office from traineeship to retirement states "times were turbulent". We know that they are also now: there were 824 thousand active persons in Slovenia in 2011 and 111 thousand were registered at the Employment Institute. The registered unemployment rate was 11,8 %. In accordance with Rule 249 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we hold a general debate on today's crisis period, when there are extremely many people who are unemployed. Given the fact that we want to help the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, because it is obvious at this point in time that a large number of unemployed people, who are in social distress and need the assistance of social work centres, would make sense to have a general debate on the irregular strategy for the reorganisation of social work centres in Slovenia and the related various human resources criteria. Also in connection with staff exchanges in social security institutions before the end of the term of office, without justification. I am confident that, with this general debate, we will be able to help prepare more clearly the strategy or reorganisation of the Centre for Social Work in Slovenia, not by reducing it; so that we will be able to take these centres where areas such as Koroška, such as Koroška, and elsewhere in Slovenia, where there are demographic threats – as colleagues Zanoškar discussed earlier, related to units of educational institutions. I think it would be a good idea, Mr Minister, to think about it, so I propose that a general debate be held. Otherwise, thank you again for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u341	Thank you very much. The general debate will now not be held, but, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a discussion will be held on the Minister's response to the question you have given him, in the event that the State Assembly decides tomorrow in the context of the vote. Mr Jerko Čehovin, who has a question for the Minister of Infrastructure and the premises of Mr Zvonk Černač, is next. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u342	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, after nine months, I'm also asking my fellow Ukrainian a question, not because I want to draw this debate, but because I think some things need answers. Minister Cernač, the problem of economic growth is becoming a central problem for Europe, and especially for Slovenia's political and economic agenda. It is precisely due to the dramatic decline in economic activity that the promotion of growth should be at the heart of the government's efforts and here your ministry is one of the decisive factors from which concrete solutions are expected in terms of sectoral investment in state infrastructure projects. Like the roads. Well, you know, because you probably know that economic growth, as Bell calls it in his part The cultural contradiction of capitalism, is a secularized religion of developed societies, even though these priorities are somehow mixed with us. However, if we go from these fundamental questions to a more concrete issue, there is doubt as to how you can successfully carry out these tasks, if you crash on projects as small as – say, we both know that – repair or reconstruction of the overpass at Postojna highway or the legendary construction, again in our vicinity, of the one-kilometre roads through Peljenje pri Pivka, because things have been going on for three years. Last but not least, I am not saying that this is the only thing causing traffic congestion in the tourist season. May 23rd and the last weekend in August, the first weekend in September, when we had a catastrophic situation on this road cross or in all the settlements, when it took about three hours to get from the Košanska Valley and to the highway. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister: How will you ensure the effective completion of the projects already started in the field? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u343	Thank you very much. Minister Zvonko Blackach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u344	Thank you very much for the question, dear colleague Chehovin. Surely we all agree that at the time that this country had a budget at the beginning of this year, under which it was envisaged that it would spend 2 billion 300 million euros more this year than would result in the budget, the first step was to curb this abnormal gap. This was also done by the Government, the National Assembly discussed this legislation in the spring of this year, and it was also largely coordinated with the social partners, and these scissors were more than halved. This was necessary, otherwise we are probably more here today, at least in the sovereign way that we are currently discussing, it would not be because we would be inequitable. Intervention of excessive expenditure planned under completely different circumstances was necessary. Just as the budget has now been urgently adopted or budgets adopted by the Government will be adopted for 2013 and 2014, which provide for the continuation of this corresponding deficit below 3% of the corresponding expenditure investments at a significantly higher level, in particular on the basis of the better use of the European funds available in this financial perspective, which will be concluded in 2013 and 2015, and the resources available in the future financial perspective, which will start in 2014, which is kind of a cut-off year between the present and the future financial perspective. That's why I have to repeat the numbers I said before. It is incomprehensible that during the period when the wheel started to stop, it was also strongly stopped in the investment field. There was no need at the expense of such high expenditure that only €81 million was allocated to investments at the Ministry in 2011. If more than 2 times that can be allocated this year at substantially less than the remaining expenditure, and if we spend more than 330 million euros next year. This is one part of the story, the second part of the story is related to the rehabilitation of the banking system and the fact that it is essential that what should be done already in 2009, cut off this cancer tissue, especially in state banks, eliminate what is bad, and allow these banks to function normally and support the economy, entrepreneurs, and, on the other hand, that in the part where it comes to identifying the bad, we also begin to manage as soon as possible. One such large segment, which is very important for construction, is housing. We now have several thousand blocked apartments in these banks. There's nothing to do with them. If this gap does not occur, this so-called bad bank will not be in operation for a few years. It was therefore necessary to do so here, as it is necessary to ensure better management of public infrastructure, better planning of public infrastructure investments. I must say here that I am very critical in the final stage of my past work as well. But he's only got 24 hours and nothing more. We have huge reserves in the area of better investment project planning and more cost-effective spending for these projects. One of the cases that you specifically mentioned is this overpass over the highway to Postojna, where the contractor went to bankruptcy and because of this too slow installation we have now seen that Dars, because this is his jurisdiction, this part of the investment will temporarily dream over winter and spring this work through the choice of a new contractor in accordance with the Public Procurement Act to which Dars is also committed, complete. In the case of Rooster, the investment was suspended due to the summer season. This section will now continue and will be completed within the next 10 or 15 days. In order to be more cost-effective, more rational, and, above all, to invest more effectively in the resources available to us or from the European Union funds, it is essential that we do so on the basis of a long-term programme that I have expected to be ready, but that this has proved to be a rather extensive task and that in these days, we will set up a scheme by 2020 in the field of road and rail infrastructure. On the other hand, it is important to ensure the better functioning of individual subsystems, in particular the operators of both the state road network and the state highway network and those responsible for the engineering of the business in these matters, which is a state-owned company for the development of investments. We intend to do these things, and I'm sure [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u345	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u346	I want to complement the answer, as well as the minister's ability to speak a little further. In the first part, because my question was general, you also answered the general question, but I think that legislation should also be amended here. In fact, too many projects are being stopped in Slovenia at the moment due to the public procurement system and because individual contractors are going into forced settlement or bankruptcy. These cases are quite a few in Slovenia. This is not just the case here in Postojna, I pulled this particular case because we both know him well and we drive by every day. In fact, it's impossible to agree to the thesis that 150 meters of one thing drags on for a year. I think you too, Mr Minister, agree that this cannot be the case in the future. The second thing that I think should be – the ones that I have been talking about – increased cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior. We know exactly when these peaks are, and we know exactly what weekends they are and what holidays they are. I think that there is also a need for more physical presence of the police on such days, which is not a question for you, but it is a matter of working together and of dealing with these matters in such a way as to make transport more flowful than it was this year's season.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u347	Thank you very much. Minister Zvonko Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u348	Thank you very much. He's holding a public order. One part of the problem is in appropriate organisational operational implementation in such a case, while the other part is in law. It is open or in the legislative procedure is a new law on public procurement. Some amendments are proposed to allow for more operational implementation or action in cases where the operator is in bankruptcy or candid inefficiencies. If, in the framework of the parliamentary debate, anything else has to be added and this will be good, we will support it, at least personally. I think that much of the problem is actually in this Public Procurement Act, which in a way, like today, prevents more operational action in these cases. With regard to the second part concerning unnecessary traffic burdens mainly on motorways, the change in the Ministry's regulation is mainly due to the fact that, despite the great efforts of myself and my colleagues, we have somehow not been successful in establishing an agreed system of conduct in these cases. I must say that we have worked hard in this area, but obviously it will be no different than for these rules of the game to be prescribed by some regulation, and then every controller will have to stick to them. One of the things that is very disturbing and causing these congestions is the performance of individual maintenance works that could be performed at different times or at night. These recommendations have been made, unfortunately they have not been taken into account, and will therefore be enacted or prescribed by amending the Regulation. The second requirement, which was respected in most cases, was that, in the case of works that were more extensive and lasting longer, it was necessary to ensure, at any time, the flow of traffic on two lanes in each direction. Third, agreements are under way at operational level with a view to improving action in such cases as has been mentioned, particularly in the sense that procedures and ways are very precisely foreseen, what and how to ensure as soon as possible the flow of traffic. It is unacceptable that the motorway is closed four hours ago, which happened in one case a while ago near Postojna – but it is necessary to ensure the speedy and appropriate operationality of traffic at parallel locations when such an unforeseeable event occurs. This is where our efforts are going. If we do not succeed in the agreements, we will prescribe these rules with instructions or with a rulebook.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u349	Thank you very much. The Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku, will ask Mrs Maja Dimitrovski a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u350	Thank you for your word. In accordance with the Basic School Act, respected ministers are gifted students who demonstrate a high average ability to think or achieve extraordinary achievements in individual learning areas, in art or sport. The school must provide them with adequate conditions for education and education by adapting their content, methods and forms of work and by enabling them to participate in additional education, other forms of individual and group assistance and other forms of work. School professionals believe that caring for gifted students is their duty and responsibility, but the Ministry does not approve a talent test contract for savings actions by external experts. Therefore, the procedures for the detection of gifted pupils are not completed and these pupils are not provided with adapted conditions for education and education or are not encouraged by their identifiable potential. Mr Minister, I hope that we agree on the importance of educational work with talented students and that this should be one of the key guidelines of school policy, so I ask you: What are you going to do in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Dr. Mark Turk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u352	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your question as well. Working with talented students is certainly one of the important areas of primary school work. This is precisely the purpose of Article 12 of the Basic School Act, which highlights work with talented students. As early as 1999, the Slovenian General Education Council adopted the concept of working with talented students. All primary schools adapt their work on the basis of this accepted concept, and they have done so before and still do. The Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education plays an important role in this regard. This institution prepares a redesign of learning plans for individual subjects and pays particular attention to methodological-didactic guidelines for more effective work with talented people. Every year, the Ministry provides all primary schools with special means for carrying out talent tests worth 17.28 euros per student in the fourth grade. In your letter, you ask that contracts with properly trained psychologists should be restricted to perform talent tests. This school year, the Ministry received five applications for prior agreement from the Minister. All applications were resolved positively, two years ago. Three applications, which are dated 17. Ten. 2012, that's five days ago, and they were saved today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u353	Thank you very much. Would you like to propose a supplement to the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u354	Thank you. Dear Minister, in the school year 2011/2012, the remaining generation of sixth and seventh grades of primary schools remained unappreciated by the majority, thus depriving the necessary incentives for talented students. That's why I want to know: How can you, if any, replace children who have already been deprived of their talent and creativity in testing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u355	Thank you very much. Dr. Mark Turk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u356	The honourable Member, if this part of the question were to be made known in writing, would also be given an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u357	Thank you very much. To the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic, who is absent from today's meeting, and to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mag. Mr Branko Ficko will ask Radovan Žerjav a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u358	Good evening to all present! Although this question is a small magical and indirect culprit, it is the agricultural ministry, and I will try to ask in the first part Minister Gerav, who in my view is injured in this case. This is about natural parks in Slovenia and in particular their effect in the field of tourism on the specific case of Krajina Park Goričko. The town of Goričkem became recognized as a special tourist destination with the traditional Halloween event. Last year, there were already 20,000 visitors, which well filled the available accommodation facilities. It has become an interesting tourist product that has offered visitors access to local culinary offers, and many local societies have almost the only source of funding for their activities. After 13 years of events, it's over. The case began to get complicated when the park manager of the Public Institute ordered the production of a so-called security study. According to them, the venue for such an event is extremely inappropriate and the risks are very high. The fact is that if the institution took rigorous account of the content of the study, it would prohibit not only the movement of visitors at this mass event, but even employees and visitors on other days when the castle is open to visitors. However, the event took place five years before the establishment of the landscape park and took place for 7 years at the time the park was already established and when the castle was already in the management of the plant, an event took place under the same rules that are in force today and which suddenly became an insurmountable obstacle to the event. As a result, much disappointment is understandable. The practice in this case shows us that the integration of an area into the natural parks of the population brings restrictions, which often lead to a deterioration of development options rather than creating conditions for accelerated and sustainable development. Mr. Minister: How do you see this concrete example of putting unreasonable barriers and constraints to promoting economic development in particular, this is tourism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u359	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u360	Thank you very much. After all, I understood the question a little differently, but nothing about it. We both know that what happened in Gorički was stupidity without chance, that any other term could be used for what happened to prevent, banned, whatever they said, an event where, in fact, the only real tourist event that attracted a lot of people, a lot of tourists from near and far away. According to my assessment, it is certainly not the basic purpose of landscape parks or national parks or whatever we call them to ban everything that is possible and more. I think that the goal is to preserve the environment, to preserve the cultural heritage, maybe something else, but to allow people to survive there and to live normally, like everyone else. This event was the source of some income for places where there are not many of these incomes, and therefore it seems to me that the matter is even more pointless. The case is also escalating in Triglav National Park for similar matters. I think it will be necessary in the future, so we have talked to the Gorenjeks not least, to look at this legislation and see if it is optimally written or indeed, as you say, that it is too difficult to function or live if you want, in these landscape parks. I think that the obstacle is too much and that, if I say so myself, those institutions that run these landscape parks allow you to do a little too much. That's what happened when they banned Halloween, which was a great event. I'd be happy if we could re-organize the night of the castle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u361	Thank you very much. I have a concrete suggestion that Minister Bogovic, given that he is absent, will give you his part of the answer in writing. Do you want to complete the reply? Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u362	I would like to thank the Minister that we are of the same mind. We both know that this measure was not good. However, I will raise a question for Minister Bogovic, who would like to ask him next time for an oral answer, and I would like him to answer my question: At the Ministry of Agriculture, do they support the requirements of the Goričko Regional Park administration and thus prevent the economic development of local communities? In this particular case, how will they act against the park administration, which has caused economic damage, damage to tourism in Pomour and dissatisfaction to the countries? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u363	Your proposal is accepted because it is also a mag. Radovan Žerjav left some time to answer to Minister Bogovic. We turn to Mr Dragan Bosic's question, namely, to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic, who is, as we say, absent and will answer you at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u364	Thank you. Once again, welcome to my colleagues who, with their presence, give some weight to these issues and also make sense. I would like to ask the question – otherwise I am also in trouble here, although I do not doubt the Minister's absence, but this is my first case in my life to speak to the chair, and I expect an oral answer to one of the first ones where there will be a minister present. In the draft budget, I saw that for the next year, there will be quite a few funds for the promotion of Slovenian agriculture, some 4 million. My question concerns this money. I want to know: What will happen to these funds? What is the promotion plan in the coming years? What are the targeted sectors that will receive these funds? What target groups will the State address with these means? How will the evaluation of the use of these funds be carried out? Please, if the Minister will then answer this question at the next meeting, orally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u365	Thank you very much. That's what's gonna happen. It's Mrs. Sasha Kos's turn. He has a question for the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr. Žig Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u366	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! Dear Minister! It has recently been seen in the public that the establishment of a new agricultural high school is in New Town, although today agriculture can be studied at five higher education institutions and four higher education institutions. Until the establishment of a new agricultural school, the Slovenian profession has reservations or objections. The idea of establishing a new university in Dolenjska should be hidden in the interests of the establishment. The 2013 and 2014 budget rebalancing, as well as the 2013 and 2014 budget proposals, has been making drastic cuts in funding for higher education. In the Coalition Treaty you foresee the establishment of a state-owned Slovenian University of Technology, which will closely link its operation to the needs of the economy. As a result, it can be envisaged that you will intervene in the adopted Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme 20011-2020, since the resolution does not provide for new colleges or universities, but foresees the diversification of higher education institutions towards binaryism, with some institutions being more theoretically and research-oriented and more economic-related. The document states that available financial and human resources enable the operation of up to three public universities. The resolution also provides that only those private higher education institutions which are not implemented in the public sector, which are subject to public funding or co-financed, may be financed or co-financed by public funding, as well as quality implementation. The question I'm asking you: How many private higher education institutions are currently financed or co-financed by the State? Do you think it makes sense in Slovenia, compared to other countries, to think about the establishment of new universities? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u367	Thank you very much. Dr. Mark Turk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u368	Thank you very much for the last question this evening. Under the Higher Education Act, higher education institutions may establish domestic and foreign natural or legal persons. The Republic of Slovenia, such as the State, establishes public higher education institutions for the provision of public service in higher education. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has no influence on the establishment of private higher education institutions. I assume that the school you were talking about is private. Accreditation of new higher education institutions and study programmes is under the competence of the National Agency for Quality in Higher Education, which, as far as these procedures are concerned – without accreditation – completely autonomous; so again, the state, the ministry has no influence. You are asking how much private higher education institutions are currently financed or co-financed by the state. Today there are 13 private higher education institutions in the Republic of Slovenia, but it is not entirely true to say that these institutions are co-financed by the state, but the state co-financed their programmes or studies of Slovenian students in these higher education institutions in the same way as free of charge in public higher education institutions. The Republic of Slovenia does not plan to establish new higher education institutions in a given financial situation, nor does it plan to grant new concessions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u369	Thank you very much. Are you going to postpone the response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u370	Thank you. I certainly agree with you, Mr Minister, and thank you for your answer. This is certainly a private school, but I still have concerns about this, because this is then complemented by the fact that some funds are also going from the state budget to these private schools. This is a practice from the past, which is likely to happen again in this case too, Mr Minister. According to your words and predictions, we can rightly fear that Max Secretary's 2006 statement will be renewed. In fact, instead of spending money on improving the quality of our higher education in existing schools, especially for technical schools, money is invested in low-quality new school programmes. That the background is often simply a simple interest in re-analysing state money into the pockets of people close to authority, there is a self-evident conclusion in such situations. During the 2004-2008 mandate, the government, as one of 35 development programmes, also envisaged the establishment of a Ljubljana polytechnics, which should also provide for the link between science and the economy in Ljubljana's Faculty of Natural Sciences, which could only be done through the dismemberment of the University of Ljubljana. Dear Minister, much more important than the establishment of private higher education institutions is to ensure and promote the appropriate quality of higher education universities, which I hope you are also aware of, because you have acknowledged that you are personally affected by budget cuts. The question to be asked is: What are you actually advocating, Mr Minister: for the appropriate quality of higher education institutions or for the interests of individuals? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u371	Thank you very much. Dr. Mark Turk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u372	Well, you know this prank about us being private school advocates at the Ministry and trying to destroy public education on a private account, I've had enough. When we were working on the rebalancing of this year's budget, even when we were preparing the 2013 budget, we did not favour private education in any way, even in this regulation, the ratio between the funding it receives for the study of these thirteen private institutions compared to public institutions remains exactly the same. You talked about the practice of the past; the practice of the past, those of the past twenty, twenty, twenty-five years ago, was that the state had specifically allowed for each thing whether someone should deal with something or not, the exception was the craftsmen who first could have one, then two then five, and if anyone was particularly decent, twenty employees, but everything else had to be state. Of course, I believe that there are different interests in these debates. I also remember the debates when, say, a Slovenian company, a monopoly advocated that there was no reason to enter the Slovenian market in the area of x another player. Because, wouldn't it be wiser to deal with his quality? The fact is that the quality of Slovenian education stands and falls with public work because this public part has about 98% of the share of the target, 96% of the share in higher education. Perhaps only about 80% of the share in music education, which we have actually started today. Quality stands and falls on what's public. But private schools, with different ideas, with different pedagogics, with fresh approaches, introduce something fresh into this place, introduce some small competition, so the public works can be better. On the first day of school I was at the opening of the Valdorf School in Ljubljana; the building was built with the public funds of the Municipality of Ljubljana. There was no halo, the school is private and enters the Slovenian school space with freshness. There is something similar with private education in other areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u373	Thank you very much. This concludes with all the questions, and I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, which is Tuesday, 23 October, when the National Assembly will decide on the proposed decisions in the context of the vote. I am also adjourning the 7th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you so much and good night.
