ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 8th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's continuation of the meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members or only Members: Dr Gregor Virant, mag. Marko Pogačnik, Ivan Simčič, Zoran Jankovic, Jerko Čehovin, Dr. László Göncz between 16.15 and 18:00 and Branko Ficko. I say hello to everyone who's here! We move on to the 2nd A-point of the agenda, which is the Defence Proposal for the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia under the Emergency Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr. Janez Šuštersič, Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u2	Mr President, President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In May 2010, the National Assembly adopted the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia. In the practice of this implementation of the law, certain difficulties have been identified, particularly in the adoption of strategic documents based on this law. This is why a novelty was adopted last year or in 2011, which was last year, which had to be temporarily regulated by this law because the strategic documents had not yet been adopted. In the practice of managing investment, there have been some decisions that the majority of the professional public have not seen as good, but at the same time we have some important decisions ahead of us in the coming months, some important procedures for managing the country's capital investments. It is the recapitalisation of banks, the resolution of firms that have problems, in short, for emergency responses to the situation of the economic and financial crisis. As a result, we have assessed that there is a need to propose a transitional solution within a period of several months, until we propose a comprehensive new law, a system law on capital investment management or state property, a temporary interim solution that will enable the government to prevent wrong decisions that would be harmful or to assume its part of the responsibility to manage these investments. What does this law propose? In view of the more effective coordination between state-owned owners, it is mainly laid down that the Capital Investment Management Agency must obtain the government's consent before exercising voting rights in the assembly of companies where it executes it. I would remind you of the word "get" which is an active word, it is a verb in an active way and talking about that you should not send papers here and there, but actually try to harmonise. The agency will not act as a postman in this regard, but as someone who will make a proposal that will be substantively, it is not an empty envelope to which the Government would write what it wants, but, of course, its proposals in accordance with its competences and competences. However, the government will assess and give its consent or propose any additions. We have also had cases in the past where, say, individual state-owned property managers have not been harmonised, so there have been blockades between them. We have had cases where even some other state - owned owners did not vote because something had happened in the congregation that they were not prepared for. We believe that this guidance can be given or given to the congregation in a way that is open and flexible enough to prevent most of these situations. I would also point you out in this brief speech that the Agency is still in an active role, in the role of the one who proposes to coordinate this with the Government, that it is said that its proposals, which the Government may then adopt as proposed, are another possibility in the transitional provisions, which is determined by which we do not deal with this situation, in which there is no capital investment management strategy of the State and when there may be a situation where an urgent decision is to be taken, is that we then give the Government the opportunity to come directly to the National Assembly and obtain some way of managing the State's assets, such as to recapitalise the bank which would need it, and it does so in its competence. I would warn you that this article is limited to two very clear restrictions. Such a proposal by the Government must be necessary in order to resolve the economic, financial or fiscal crisis and must also be submitted to the National Assembly, because the Government cannot take this responsibility on its own, but must obtain the consent or approval of the National Assembly. I think that by doing so, it is enough to prevent the government from acting on its own initiative, and at the same time, it is enough safeguards on our part to allow us to achieve in these three months a comprehensive solution that will be better than what we now have and which we have in the past, we can also do those urgent things that are related to the management of state property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. To Andre Shirtzle. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u4	Dear President, Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! As has already been said, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, at its 11th urgent meeting yesterday, as a parent working body, considered the proposal of this Act with a proposal for an urgent procedure to be considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and with a legislative technical aspect. The Service made comments on Articles 4 and 7 of the proposal. The Committee was presented as working material with proposals for amendments to the Committee by Articles 1, 2, and 7. However, the Group of Social Democrats has tabled an amendment to Article 4. Meetings of the Committee were attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legislative and Legal Service and the Capital Investment Management Agency. To further explain, the Minister of Finance gave a more detailed presentation of the purpose of the law and the proposed solutions. He said that the area of capital investment management in Slovenia was regulated so that there was a gap between the responsibilities and responsibilities of the investment manager. The question, therefore, is how to regulate the system in such a way that proportionality will be the law. It is also true that the law has not been fully implemented since the Agency should make capital investments on the basis of a strategy that has not yet been prepared. The government doesn't want the agency to be shut down, but a solution needs to be found. Therefore, a decision has been taken by the Government to set up a group to prepare a systemic solution to this area. Because the agency remains like the one that will decide how to manage the assets and will have to obtain the government's consent to do so. Transitional provisions also provide for the possibility of action by the Government, if necessary for the financial and fiscal stability of the State, by proposing a decision to the National Assembly. Such a solution makes sense for a transitional period until a permanent and systemic solution to the area is established. In the context of the explanation of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, her representative made comments to Article 1 concerning the correction of the minor shortcomings. It is necessary to specify a regulation that is being amended. To Article 4 of the bill, she commented on the Agency's status or institutional independence, which so far had decided on specific matters that did not exceed EUR 20 million. Now she's going to need a new government agreement. With regard to Article 7, she stressed that in the new regulation, it would be considered that, in cases of urgency, the State Assembly would decide, or the Agency itself, with the prior agreement of the Government. In the debate, the discussers asked what the role of the Agency and its status would now be and whether it was in line with the OECD Guidelines. They were interested in the Agency's mission and its results and the Agency's actual responsibility for its decisions. Some members expressed the view that, until now, the exercise of state property had been unsuccessful, others that it had been successful. The panellists stressed the fact that both the administration and the Board of Agencies are causing problems in the management of the Agency. In the debate, the Minister said that the Agency was independent in relation to the law in force, but it is true that it must comply with the Government and obtain its consent. In this respect, the government only assumes the role of consenting. The current solution is temporary until a systemic solution is drawn up for the entire area of capital investment management. On the basis of Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has drawn up and adopted the following amendments, namely Articles 1 and 2. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee defined and did not adopt until the amendment of the SD Group of Members to Article 4. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u6	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Colleagues and Fellows! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia. In opening, let me say that in the position of the DeSUS Group, we will not dispute the content of the law under consideration, which, as we see, raises a lot of dust. Our Group of Members has taken the position to support this law. Such a decision is taken because the solution to the management of the country's capital investments, which we now have on the parliamentary benches, will be only temporary, transitional, as announced by the Minister. The systemic changes envisaged by the Coalition Treaty, which provides for the unification and centralisation of the management of state-owned capital investments, are expected to be ready by summer. At the moment, the absence of key documents, which are a prerequisite for effective, rational and responsible decision-making on what to do with individual state assets, constitutes the inoperability of the management of public property itself, which we cannot afford. This is why we will support the proposed changes at this time, of course, in anticipation of the adoption of a permanent solution that will follow the OECD Guidelines on Good Governance of State-owned Enterprises, take into account the principle of prudent withdrawal from the economy and the principle of non-interference of policy in the sphere of governance, assigning to state-owned enterprises the primary task of creating profits and nobility of capital value, prescribes the acquisition of this profit in the budget, not in private pockets, establish a high degree of transparency of governance and a system of responsibility for the failure or irresponsible management of companies, and require the provision of an effective method of control to appointed members of the administration and supervision, and impose a personal and material responsibility for the mismanagement of companies. As stated in the introduction, we will support the law in the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u7	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič will give an opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u8	Mr President, Mr Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! That the involvement of policy in the management of state-owned enterprises in the past has mainly produced poor results, non-competitiveness and other bad economic indicators, we know virtually everyone. Thus, at some point in the previous mandate, the former authorities tried to follow the example of some other countries in setting up a State Property Management Agency, which was to be completely independent and independent of their decisions. A seemingly attractive move, however, with one bad quality: Each time a government can run from responsibility for bad decisions. Germany also has, as an example, a special public institution for the management of assets belonging to the Ministry of Finance, but it will be difficult for us in the Slovenian People's Party's Group to convince us that the Cabinet of German Chancellor Angela Merkel has no influence on certain decisions in the handling of state property. So let us stop blinding ourselves and pour ourselves, as we like to say, pure wine. Let us recognise that the matter currently functions as a burden of responsibility and that we must lay down clear rules of the game, clear guidelines, clear criteria for recruitment and also clear responsibility for these decisions. Also, if we do not find the professional staff to run the home, let us find it abroad, because when we talk about the independence of the agency, we forget the actual relationship between competence and responsibility. We've obviously never won a particular concept. When something goes wrong, when a state-owned company makes a mistake that costs more than 100 million euros, when a government of a state-owned enterprise makes a completely wrong business move, the owner seeks or requires the responsibility of a leading staff. This is going in the opposite direction. Just look at the example when the agency even asked the most successful state directors to take part in the recapitalisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor. It is with such and similar stories that the Agency for Capital Investments has lost the confidence of Members of the Slovenian People's Party. Even more, with recent disclosures about clientelism and political corruption, I ask: Do you feel that with the current regulation of corporate governance we have eliminated any more customerism? Have we put an end to the depletion of state-owned enterprises in the last term? Are our state-owned companies more competitive in global markets? Have we actually provided better management and better results for companies? I am afraid that there is no significant progress, as the real comparison is not a percentage of performance in relation to the previous year, as some members of the opposition would like to point out, but a concrete comparison of numbers with comparable companies elsewhere in the world. Some in the opposition were of the opinion that the Agency should be given time for a longer period of action. But what if, five years later, it turns out that this was completely wrong? What are we gonna do then? They've replaced the director, and all the problems will end in one piece? However, the most common observation from some opposition species is that we do not follow the recommendations of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Ladies and gentlemen, if you had taken only a fraction of the OECD guidelines into account in the previous mandate, today you would very likely not have a two billion-dollar budget hole and a completely fresh 7 billion state debt. This is your legacy. However, I wonder if you have taken responsibility for them too, if you have already taken some task of on-call criticism of government decisions. Today we only accept transitional amendments to the law. No one erases responsibility, but we re-establish it. The Minister of Finance and, as a result, the government today not only assumes formal responsibility but also direct responsibility to citizens. The success of these moves can be assessed when the first results are visible. We will support both the novelty and the harmonisation amendments in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I will present the position of New Slovenia, which monitored the establishment of the Capital Investment Management Agency and the adoption of the relevant law from outside, not from Parliament. And as citizens, we have tracked the following. We have seen that, above all, the coalition troika has spent a lot of energy on the debate, on the critics on the one hand and, of course, on the defense of this agency. And how can you now be a simple citizen who is not a lawyer, who is not a financier, how to imagine and how to trust this agency to manage a large state property. The current mission of the Capital Investment Management Agency, after being provided for by the law in force, shows that the issue of institutional and personal responsibility is even more competitive. And if we don't start building on personal responsibility once, then we really don't do well in Slovenia. We in Novi Slovenija understand the necessity of amending the law on capital investment, as presented by Mr Minister on behalf of the government, and this must be done now because we are approaching the season of companies' assemblies. On the other hand, we would like to say that we have nowhere to see the OECD Slovenia explicitly ordering us to establish an agency in Slovenia. This request was never received by the OECD Slovenia. The Agency is supposed to be a guardian and head of state investment, a custodian and a staff selector, a world supervisor. After a year and a few months, the Agency still does not have a politically accepted and validated development strategy for the management of state property, without which it cannot formally decide on the recapitalisation, purchase and sale of companies. The Agency is, on the one hand, a collector of sectoral strategies of ministries, on the other hand, merely an autonomous service of strategic policy orientations of the National Assembly. Critical to the establishment of the Agency and, above all, to the legislation establishing the Agency or setting up the Agency, are Slovenian finance and economics professionals and university teachers. The capital investment management agency is neither an economic company nor a typical state authority. We could say he's some kind of mutant, like Professor Dr. Rajko Pirnat says. In the case of the agency, they actually made an impossible glue, that is, a combination of two different beings that can't work in any way. The law regulates the agency as a legal person, but this is not clearly defined, but at the same time they have made it very clear in the law that the agency is a separate state authority, which is subject to a different management system – they do not have an administration and a world. We know that the Capital Investment Management Agency has the Administration and the Board of the Agency. The public authority shall normally consist of one person, e.g. a minister, an inspector, or a college body such as the Government, the Audit Commission, the Court of Auditors, etc. In any event, the State authority is composed of people and does not yet have its own authorities. In our opinion, it is also disputed that the Agency has both the administration and the council of the Agency. This is causing a lot of problems in managing the agency. Various other rules and laws governing the financial functioning of the State and its authorities shall speak of the President. Who represents the chairman in the case of the Capital Investment Management Agency? The whole board or just the president or the president of the board? I think that, apart from matters expressly identified as tasks of the entire administration under the Capital Investment Management Act, others are decided by the President of the Administration as chairman. In the introduction, I have already talked about responsibility, especially in New Slovenia, we always stress personal responsibility. When I ask myself what the Agency's compensation is like, I can't find or find a simple answer. For all of this, in New Slovenia we will support a new concept of capital investment management, as drafted by the Slovenian Government by law. We will also support the complementary draft law that we are considering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u12	Good-bye! Ladies and gentlemen, the president, the Minister with the co-workers! Today we are talking about all that remains of this country as financial assets – capital investments. The value of all of this is so much different every day. Five years ago, much, much less today. Why? To a large extent, this has been influenced by the crisis and developments in world markets, and to a large extent we have influenced this by ourselves. Poor management of our financial assets is a fact, but this does not mean only or especially at a time since the agency has taken care of this property, but also before it was the same as the new law on the management of our assets will be the responsibility of the government. Not the government of Janez Janša, but the Slovenian government led by Janez Janša, we were taught on the Committee on Finance yesterday. At that time, there were exchanges of leaders in the companies Luka Koper, Intereuropa, Hit Nova Gorica and could still be listed. At that time, investments in astronomical values were happening, and they are worth much, much less today, and their balance sheets are still poor. And someone took responsibility? Did anyone answer for everything that happened? Nobody. Moreover, we are hearing that the government could not be responsible for what was happening in these companies because it had no impact. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the government coalition, you have obviously changed your opinion and opinion in this case as well. Yesterday, on the Committee on Finance, we listened for three hours to take on the responsibility of the government by means of this amendment of the law. We certainly agree with that. No one else is and cannot be responsible for the management of state property. But then why are we fixing something in half today? Why don't you take your time and do the right thing and do the right thing. Yesterday we heard that the reason for such a work and haste was Nova Ljubljanska banka and the fear that it would happen again at the recapitalisation of another Slovenian bank where the President of the Government said something and then the Agency did another. We agree that this kind of work casts a bad light on Slovenia. But do you really think that a comprehensive solution could not be found, whether it was the termination or the transformation of the agency? Now you're doing something in half. The Agency, as an independent and independent body in charge of the National Assembly, remains and will have to obtain the government's consent for a large majority of its actions. So only government mailmen will be well-paid employees at the agency?Oh, my God! On the Committee on Finance itself, you replaced the word “Council of the Agency” with the word “government” and replaced the word “Council of the Agency” with the word “government” by the word “government” and took all the powers of the Board of the Agency, which remained the Authority of the Agency after yesterday. So we have an agency council that no longer has powers and powers. I think it was even a surprise for the Minister of Finance. How the government feels about this, we have not found out, but the minister said he would respect the decisions to be taken in the National Assembly. We are taking a completely inappropriate decision on such important matters as the management of capital investments with temporary solutions. And these temporary solutions, dear colleagues, are all too much in this government. In Positive Slovenia we agree that this area needs to be regulated, but not so semi-economically. They would be prepared to support a law that would fully resolve the matter. As you have probably already understood from my statements, we cannot support the proposal for a new law because of all of this. Dear Minister, I hope that the fact that we will vote as we think it is right to vote will not upset you too much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party supports the main solutions in the law that the AUKN alone will have a capital investment of up to €5 million without the government. It also agrees that if the country's capital investment management strategy is not adopted, then the National Assembly will decide. It also supports the need for the Agency to comply with the government in advance with the names of the new supervisors on voting in the Assembly. We agree that the Ministry assumes direct powers to manage capital investments in international financial institutions and investments received by the State under the laws on tax procedure, enforcement of criminal sanctions and succession. And we certainly agree that the Ministry will be given the right to receive direct electronic data on capital investments, to be able to exercise its powers, its work and therefore to be responsible. These are the main solutions to the bill proposed by the Ministry or government, thus uniting the centralised management tasks of capital investments owned by the State. In fact, this will also ensure that this state property, which, as has already been said, is worth a different assessment every day, is managed in a predictable way every day. A predictable way in which what and how will be recapitalised, how it will be managed, and not finally what will be sold can actually be known in advance. In fact, this law also allows this to be done in a transparent way, effectively and that those who manage property on behalf of the State will also be responsible. These are the principles laid down by the OECD for the management of state ownership. If we are talking about different OECD guidelines, then of course we must say that they are not binding and that they do not provide individual content, but that they actually set principles without content and without a specific form. These guidelines apply in different ways to the European Union countries. For example, Finland has a special office with the Prime Minister for the administration of state property, Germany within the Ministry of Finance and France has a special agency, just as we have actually had one. Such a solution actually ensures transparent governance and, of course, we will fully support the amendment of the law and the harmonisation amendments in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Last but not least, we have also witnessed certain acts of the Agency in the past, certain solutions that we cannot agree with in any way. This was a recapitalisation of the NKBM, as instructed by the agency. In doing so, those who recapitalised it, namely, GEN energy, Mail, Eles, actually lost their money, lost their funds. And in this way, we certainly cannot agree. This is, of course, another reason to support the proposal for a new law, including amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u16	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Let me say that, in the Group of Social Democrats, we oppose the changes and additions to the Capital Investment Management Act because it reintroduces direct policy interference into the economy, both through political recruitment and the return of the agreement on the sale of Slovenian assets into the cabinet of the Prime Minister, of course, introduces political decision-making in the sphere of the economy, which is extremely damaging. This is a big step back, which actually brings us back to the time of the previous Janša government when we met with Taiwan's takeovers and the exhaustion of businesses due to political recruitment. With the creation of a capital investment management agency, the Social Democrats have put an end to political recruitment and the non-transparent sale of capital shares by businesses and banks. In a very short time in which the Agency operates, it became operational on 20 October 2010, when the Council of the Agency was appointed. The mid-term report on the Agency's functioning, which brings the date of October 2011, shows that giving priority to professional decisions and the withdrawal of policies from the economy has had a very strong impact in the operations of state-owned companies. The business profit increased by 45% or in numbers to EUR 289 million. This has proved to the Social Democrats that the Agency can function as any private owner of property. The speed of depriving the Agency of all powers, since the entire Board of the Agency has withdrawn from the Committee, and the transmission of decisions on the recruitment and provision of voting instructions to the Assemblys in the Government, shows that the new authority has been afraid that it will run out of arguments as to why it opposes the decisions of the Capital Investment Management Agency. Economists and lawyers also consider the proposed solution to be a step backwards. In the management of the country's capital investments, policy interference has always been shown in history to be inadequate. There are also opinions that the proposed solution will lead to problems in the enforcement of state rights in state-owned companies' assemblies. We can conclude that all of this leads to the early cheap sale of state-owned enterprises and banks without a serious analysis of the implications for the development of the country and the welfare of the people. This will obviously also be done by the Government regardless of the possible negative position of the OECD, which can bring even the exclusion of Slovenia from this international organisation. This, of course, will further undermine the country's credibility. The confidence of investors will decline further, making it even more difficult for us to recover from the economic recovery that everyone is so eager and difficult to expect. These are the reasons why we oppose the proposed amendments to the Capital Investment Management Act. We hope that he will not really receive majority support at today's meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Starman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u18	Good day to you all! The Parliamentary Group The Civil Code will support the amendment of the law, because we think it is right to take away part of the responsibility of the agency that manages this property and that the Government assumes part of the responsibility for managing this property. I think it is also right to avoid any wrong decisions on large assets that could make our situation worse. But I wonder, now that all the birds are chirping and getting married, why this unfortunate country of ours is such a bad master. And it's true. Unfortunately, it's true. I can't imagine when I fly through some of the things we've accepted on a quick trip, but I'm going back so I don't interfere with any government. In 1964, we invented a tozda. During the night, we had thousands of new directors, new ficuses, new labour councils, new costs. That was catastrophic. No one calculated the consequences. Then we made the property. Yeah, that's terrible! We have somehow made a seemingly fair division between the citizens who created the property, among the state funds and so on. Did anyone think we'd made such a mess of it, that we'd set up thousands of equity companies overnight that aren't even close to being part of the company? We've established thousands of control councils, quasi-supervisory worlds that have caused enormous costs. We've made a complete mess of this. Then there was not so much smart as all the experts we have to give a moratorium on the sale of these certificates to citizens for at least 15 years. Because you can't throw a huge thing into the market because you've completely evaluated it. That's why we've come up with a few thousand people who own all this property, but we've all lost everything. I must say that in a number of times, working self-governance was better than those companies were later managed by these fragmented owners. Then the tycoons happened, and instead of preventing the state from lending any kind of stock purchase, we even encouraged such things, which were known in advance to be complete nonsense. Then we decided in tax policy to make a wonderful move to tax wages. And where in the world, even now, at this point, one who has 41% of income and 23 total gross contributions, and then the company 16 wholes, because it only gets 30% of the employees. This was corrected in 2005 or 2006, when this income scale was 50 and the additional wage tax was paid. Who has these conditions? In the economy, they say, "Well, for God's sake, give us conditions such as competition by the state." And we don't know how to calculate that, we force our heads through the wall, and we destroy this economy 100 an hour. Then let's just make up our minds to go into the area of wages, how much someone has to get, and all sorts of things. We're really doing all the stupid things, and it's strange that we're still so powerful that our economy is still so alive. Not to mention government property management. It's a disaster. And we invent different forms, different ways, we debate, Czech, country from economy, country to economy. After all, the country can be a master and must be a good master of its assets, no matter how it got to it. I think you really need to ask yourself what and why we can't fix it. Apparently, some privileged people who have this power to influence us all together are whatever the government is, and they can cut off pieces of this property through equal privileges. That's why you even have to kill a cow if you want one steak steak. In fact, we do this all the time, and I really wonder why. That's why I think it's right to go to a new law, but I don't think there's much to write about. We say and demand from the one who manages the assets, it can be a private institution that offers a price for how much it manages, and we place as government conditions, and we say, "at least 10% yield, no stock purchases or loans without the consent of the state". So it's settled. You don't have to write much. We want to write everything and then make such a fog that we do such nonsense that we get dizzy. Then we wonder why. At least in our situation, this global economic crisis is at fault here. What we're doing in the economy, and thousands of other things, tycoons, that's terrible. Why did we make this up and let this happen so we could pay these bills? I'm not talking about banks, I'm not talking about the various stupidities that we're doing just for the reason that we're trying to make things better for each other in some way, but we're all doing the same thing, we're cataclysmicly mismanagement and we're creating catastrophic conditions for the economy and for the poor economy of property. That's why something has to be changed here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I note that the amendments to Articles 2, 7 and 9 have been tabled. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on all these articles. First, I open the debate on Article 2. Two amendments are tabled under Article 2, namely the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the coalition's sent groups, the SDS, the National Gazette, the Slovenian People's Party, the Democratic Party of Pensioners and New Slovenia. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I'm opening the application. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u20	The new law is already disputed by the agreement contained in Article 4. This agreement de facto abolishes the independence of the Capital Investment Management Agency. But the real purpose of the applicants was only demonstrated yesterday on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy when the SDS Group proposed an amendment that simply placed all the powers of the Agency's Council, that is to say, the authority of the Agency, into the government. In this way, the Agency's tasks as internal tasks are transferred to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Lawmakers argue that they do this because responsibility has to be established. I would like to know what responsibility has been established against the political holders of functions in the period 2004-2008, the period in which we are now returning to renaissance and allowing the policy to be rescinded by economic operators. Consider a few examples. Intereuropa, where the President of the Supervisory Board was then and current Secretary-General of the Government. Luka Koper, Mercury, Mercator, Laško and all similar stories, which in many cases resulted in the tycunization of Slovenia after the end of the human resources tsunami. We warn you, don't go back that way! All these stories that we could have seen during that period were the reason why we decided in this country to manage capital investments once and for all with an agency which, in accordance with the OECD guidelines and guidelines, will be an independent institution and which will manage state assets on professional criteria. If we were willing to take so much time and consider an interim report on the functioning of this agency, we would find that the Agency has improved the returns from the management of these state investments, and perhaps within a few years we would reach that magical limit of 7%, as far as, say, it represents a capital return in some other countries, in particular France, where they have almost identical arrangements as you are today. You say it's a responsibility. You may be disturbed by the fact that in many cases, when the Agency analyses what has happened in economic operators, criminal charges are also brought against those who today have to be held accountable for the damage done to state property in these entities. You're saying you're going to put political responsibility instead. This is a bad decision because it wide opens the door to politics to re-staff in state-owned economic operators. We invite you to accept the amendments of the Social Democrats to Article 2 and the powers that the Council of the Agency has so far had as an independent body, carefully composed of experts of various political orientations, if you wish, to give these powers back to this world, not to make the world an organ within the Agency, in fact, only on paper and without any jurisdiction. Let us note in this regard that such an intervention in Article 2 of this Act has also resulted in internal non-consistency of the law, which cannot be abolished in this procedure. The Government's possible harmonisation amendment will also affect other articles that are not open in this process. Will this be the singing new standard in the adoption of legislation, which was also promised by the President of the National Assembly, Gregor Virant, when he said that we would introduce new quality legislation into the Rules of Procedure and reject laws that would not comply with these standards of quality? Is this possible, in accordance with the resolution on the normative activity by which the previous opposition, today's first government party, has repeatedly challenged and argued that we do not adhere to this resolution? No! No! You will bypass the Rules of Procedure with the rape of corporate governance, which should be our common interest in improving the benefits of public finances, improving the capital flows to the state budget and to these companies in order to avoid reckless privatisation of this family silver. I call on you to support the amendment to the 2nd Article of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I owe you one explanation. Given that the law has been added to the agenda of this extraordinary meeting as an additional item, after we have announced the time for discussion, each discusser shall have five minutes to discuss it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So much for an explanation. Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor to prepare Mrs Alenka Pavlič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u22	Good-bye! We are back in times of political interference in the economy. We've been used to that. And today it has been said that this is not a permanent solution today. Admit it, the permanent solution is to end the AUKN. And we'll probably come to that if you don't vote on the amendments we've drafted by the Social Democrats. The agency, despite its initial mistakes, is good at things. She won nearly 300 million dollars on the property of the state. All over the world, these things run like this, but we're at the beginning, and we need some time. What is new is what we have learned today is that the Council of the Agency is also abolishing to transfer tasks to the government to get ministers back to play an important role in this decision. This is about selling out businesses and banks as little resistance as possible. I think that the problem is not only that this action is at odds with the requirements of the OECD, but the problem is that we are going back to the period when state shares were estranged. Let me list: Mercator, Istrabenz, Mercury, Iskra Commerce, Mlinotest, Primorje, Work, Alpine, Iskra, Jelovica, Lip Bled, Forest Economy Bled and so on. This is a disaster that shows what was inherited by the government that came before this government. And the powers remaining under this coalition programme at the Agency are to have the shares of the state in companies such as the Official Gazette, Transport Control, Snowman, Borzen, Future Maribor, the Holiday Community Krško, water management companies and some companies that are bankrupt. So, the point is to put this thing out. And be brave and say that today, not to drag things around. But I am counting on the discretion of Members and Members, and therefore I propose that you support the amendment to Article 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Ms Alenka Pavlič has the floor, Mr Janez Ribič is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u24	Dear Chairman, respectable coalition, respectable opposition! First, I will reply to a colleague who made a statement on the Finance Committee yesterday that the AUKN was the subject of the first uncontested coalition falling apart. I'm afraid that's not the case. This pitiful scenario was written earlier. We don't need the AUKN. Let's stop him and do it now! Who would be honored to cut a cat's tail off on sausages if we knew it would hurt less if we cut it off right now?Oh, my God! The minister said yesterday that the AUKN is doing a bad job. It's supposed to be a temporary solution. Fine. Why, then, the elements of perversion can be fished in mud during this time period. We've seen all this before. Deja vu. I wouldn't repeat my speech. You know, state-owned companies, Intereuropa and the rest of them, where they are and who's responsible. Let the government stand out and answer. You're funny, but people outside this theater aren't funny! They cry, they lose their jobs, they lose their purpose in life. And the government is playing. I would explain to all those who were not on the Committee on Finance yesterday the opinion or why my colleague Bratušek is concerned that the Minister would not be too angry. I quote: "If I am very angry, I will suggest that those who support such laws, which prevent me from leading this process, renounce their parliamentary salaries for a few months." End of story. I wish the Minister wouldn't be very angry, too. What about you? I would also tell him that, following the Minister's constitution, Members are confirmed and suspended. And not the other way around. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor. Get Mrs. Renata Brunskole ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Article 2 refers to the responsibilities and responsibilities of the Agency and the State. Just as an example, I mentioned it earlier, so much is heard about independence, but nothing about responsibility. Someone tell me who was responsible for the move to date that successful state-owned companies had to participate in the recapitalisation of the New Bank of Maribor, as ordered by the agency. So who is responsible for directly interfering with the business policy of individual successful companies, to which we have practically taken the surplus, taken the investment potential and diverted it into the purchase of bank shares? Was that the Prime Minister? Head of the agency? Officials at the agency? No one, respected colleagues, has taken responsibility for this, because right now, responsibility and authority have been erased. And there's a lot of these moves that are evident to be controversial. That's why I think it needs to be arranged for a new one. Therefore, I think it is appropriate to know exactly who is responsible for what and to whom we can attribute the results, but not to divide the responsibility at all possible levels, and in the end no one is to blame. The Agency may carry out certain analyses and carry out an advisory role in the management of state assets. However, in every normal country, the final decisions are taken by the Government and thus take full responsibility and responsibility, and I therefore support the government's changes and the amendment we have tabled in the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor to prepare Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! It is difficult to believe that the matter is truly of a transitional nature, as has been pointed out today. No offense, but in this mandate we have already witnessed the allegations, "we will propose in the coalition contract the return of the prosecution to the judiciary", but we have not experienced this. We're probably going to have a hard time with that too. It does not go with a bill that will not be operational. It is best for the government if it wants to be effective to just shut down the AUKN. The government should assume responsibility for asset management. The fact is, however, that this is clearly a reduction in the autonomy and competence of the AUKN. In Article 2, this is a debate on amendments, and in particular in Article 21, it was important to understand that the statement - from the Council of the Agency's decision-making to the government - would change. Practically everything will be taken over by the government, almost all day activities. It is not just strategic matters, but it will end up being illogical. For example, the government will appoint members of the Accreditation Commission on a proposal from the Administration. The OECD Guidelines provide for the separation of the function of sectoral policy makers and public investment managers. Article 21 will replace the statement of competence of the Board of the Agency with that of the Government. The bill is truly so inoperable, really illogical and, in my opinion, it is difficult for the Minister at this time, because he is aware, and probably also for the Ministry's professional services, that there is so much confusion in this proposal, so much disconnection in the entire amendment proposal and the addition of the law, that it would be good to think about the fact that it is "swift slowly". It was also not heard at the meeting of the Committee that, taking into account the OECD, it is linked to corporate governance of state-owned companies, because they say that the government must not interfere with the day-to-day management of companies. However, apparently all these statements are not so important today, and I expect the coalition to vote on what it has decided to do. But once again, I would like to point out that this is not about the coalition voting. It is a matter of state property, of strategic affairs, of very important matters, and, if it was correct to understand the Minister at the meeting of the Finance Committee, he made it clear to us that this amendment and amendment of the law is primarily related to the management of state banks and the envisaged recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. I hope that not all of us will be angry, but also sad if there is a sale of state property and that we will still be without the state silver we have today, as we say. We believe that this would be extremely irresponsible for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I will not support the bill as well as fellow Members of Positive Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! In the introduction, the relationship between authority and responsibility always comes into my mind, which is responsible for something, who is responsible for something, who is responsible, who is responsible for something, but the transfer of knowledge leads to perversion, and who is turned into the confusion of the right state or, if you want, the truth. In practice, there has been widespread mistrust in this country. Each time, the National Assembly considers and adopts hundreds of laws that entail a number of measures, bureaucratic measures that have an important impact on the lives and work of citizens and citizens. In the past, poorly prepared laws have enabled the theft of state property or property, and by setting up the Capital Investment Management Agency, the past government has tried to correct or prevent bad decisions from the past, but this time it has also proved that AUKN is not the happiest decision. And what's the problem? The problem lies in ethics and morality and in the constant involvement of policy in so-called professional decisions. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Minister, for 2,000 years we have followed the Ten Commandments of God and lived a better life than we do today. I note that every law should re-write these 10 commandments of God again and again, perhaps by doing so we would be able to ensure that politicians, executives and law-makers, and all the others, whose laws are affected in one way or another, are not deceived by them, that they do not lie to us, that they do not steal and that they do not exploit and could still be listed. The adoption of the proposed Capital Investment Act once again seeks to blur something out, abolishes the independence of the AUKN, marries its competence, rather than simply abolishing it, maintains itself as a possible barrier to the wrong political decisions of this government. I'm afraid I won't support such a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The first list of those you wanted to discuss is exhausted. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I'm opening the application. We are still discussing the amendments to Article 2. Mr Franz Pukšič is about to prepare Mrs Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, the minister with the team! The amendment drafted by the coalition will be supported and the amendment drafted by the opposition will not be supported. Some members of the opposition, especially Positive Slovenia, also spoke extensively in their pre-election performances about this agency and were aware that this should be abolished or said that such a way could not be done. At this point, we were united. Now you may be putting a little pressure on why the agency, or why these changes, is likely to run in many such and different congregations, etc. Some things just have to be prepared, matured, and then moved on. I would agree with all those who say it would be best to stop. I don't know what the government's strategy is, but it's a matter of a minister and a government, and I'm sure they'll do the best they can. You know, it's like this, by those who are defending this agency, a bluff that's been going on for three years, or at least for a while, and it's been going on for a while. You set up your own people through the agency and then you pull the strings and you're basically not responsible for anything. I am sure that such instructions have not been given by the former Prime Minister, but that there have been hundreds of such around this agency as Mr Pezdir has just named in Finance. And the agency up, the agency down, the lobbyist left, right, short of these suitcases was probably a lot, and then the responsibility falls on the other. And after all, where are we today? Completely pompous. The farm's on the dog. One year earlier, we had an early election. Yeah, what did someone do to make it happen? Was there any responsibility? There was no personal responsibility. Was it political responsibility? There was no political responsibility either. That they did go and the LDS from Parliament, but that another party, as the boors said, was created, we're going to rename it to another party. So that's not what it was. As for the NKBM, the NLB, you know, these are horrors. We warned about what was going on, and we had an agency, and I don't know what. What was the value of the NKBM? There's about €27, as I recall, today it's under three euros. And what happened to the construction sector? I agree with my forerunner when he spoke of the Ten Commandments of God: don't lie or steal. Only one Court of Auditors report states that it gave a negative opinion because the municipality did not operate in accordance with the rules in the following cases. On the one hand, when I picked it up together, there are 16 million euros in lies and thefts. So mea maxima culpa. If those with these options were to do so, it would be significantly different in this country and today they would not be discussing workers who are unemployed or who have 400 or 500 euros in wages. It would be very different if there were no such lies and places.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs Romana Tomc has the floor to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. The establishment of the Agency was an attempt by the Government to take a step forward in the area of transparency, efficiency and responsibility of capital investment management. If we can agree that the goal was good, that the goals were well set, we must, unfortunately, find that the implementation was very unfortunate and bad. Because of its contentious actions, the Agency has not earned either the trust of the profession or the trust of politics or the confidence of the public. If we consider the fact that the Agency has not actually done its basic homework, which is the preparation of a capital investment management strategy, then, in relation to its operation, some extremely unreasonable actions have been made in the public eye, which rightly raise doubts that this agency is credible, that it is professional and that it is independent. Let me mention some of them. The recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank has already been mentioned many times. The Agency literally forced companies to recapitalise the NKBM. This investment is not an honor to companies that behave effectively, to good managers. As a result of this move, certain adjustments had to be made in their balance sheets, which had an impact on the poorer business performance. The postal service of Slovenia is therefore €10 million – money that would otherwise benefit the budget in the form of dividends. So we know that this is a direct loss to the budget. How, in this case, will responsibility for unwise professional decisions be identified? About the frame-up. When the agency took care of the recapitalisation of the NKBM, we have listened to the Agency's concerns about the poor results for the past few days, and therefore the Board of the Agency said that due to inefficient control, uncoordinated and uncoordinated action, it was necessary to replace all members of the Supervisory Board and appoint new members. Why now, why not before? Are there any other moves in the back? We have also witnessed in the past that members of the Accreditation Council have been members of the Accreditation Council because of their business cooperation with state-owned companies in conflict of interest; you probably remember well and I will not mention names in this particular case. Who can then ensure that recruitment and other decisions take place without the influence of third parties, without political influence and without the influence of certain personal interests? Let us also mention the unreasonable increase in the prizes of supervisors in times of crisis. One of the most unreasonable moves is to count this increase in awards. The prizes, according to the new agency proposal, are, of course, even higher than they were at the time we had economic growth. Let me mention the case of Adrie. While the state has provided EUR 50 million as a financial injection to Adria, supervisors are entitled to a meeting of EUR 275 for each meeting, up to EUR 10 000 300 for a fixed amount and the President up to EUR 15 000 and several. I estimate that the Agency has failed to meet the expectations that it has been established that these interventions proposed by the Government are justified, but of course I expect this to be a temporary solution and that we will soon have a comprehensive strategy for managing the country's investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Let's get Mrs. Patricia Shulin ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. First, I must say that the amendment proposed by the coalition will be supported and the amendment proposed in the SD will not be supported. However, there is no way that I can pass through the constant attempt to convince the Slovenian public that the SD party and the current opposition have tried to end political recruitment in the previous term. This was said today by one of the SD Members. When I say that, I just want to say two things. First time. Remember Mr. Toplek, who became Chairman of the NKBM Supervisory Board. If anyone here in Parliament can claim that this was not a purely political recruitment, which the party belongs to and who put it in. Not to mention now that we're touching the AUKN, the situation that happened a few days ago. Look at Elektro Maribor. One of the 17 candidates was elected president of the administration, by chance or preference, Mr., who was the mayor in Maribor, was also an ambassador. I'm talking about Mr. Sovic, a very important man of SD. Can anyone else here tell me that this wasn't the political recruitment of AUKN? There were 17 candidates, including at least half of the specialist experts who are employed in the company, know things and know what it is. No, the AUKN has decided that the Supervisory Board must support Mr Sovic, a pure policy. So much for the transfer of SD and the mixture of Pahoreva and Jankovic's party. This is a transfer to the cup, dear colleagues and colleagues! And look what the previous Prime Minister said in July 2011. He stated that he was aware that the tasks and powers of the Agency in the law were not sufficiently clearly recorded and that the transition to new management had not been properly carried out. That is what Mr Pahor said a few months ago, who is sitting in Parliament today and is a member of the SD Group of Members. What is this party talking about here in Parliament today? It's a perfect play. You've completely turned the board around. How can you say the same things about the same person from the same party in a few months different. And this is supposed to be the opposition of some credibility! Please! Who else believes such nonsense? To conclude, my personal assessment, I speak as Marijan Pojbič, Member, is absolutely essential that politics withdraw from business. It is absolutely necessary. Looking back from history, this is precisely the fundamental problem that the economy, as far as state-owned enterprises are concerned, is today where it is. 25% plus one share, that's what we can talk about Slovenian silver. Everything else must be decided by those who know the economy and have clear objectives of protecting and upgrading that property. Certainly not some political organization like AUKN. Absolutely not. And if we want to remove policy from the economy, this is the only way that the country does not have more than 25% plus 1% in state-owned enterprises. This is the only way for the country to withdraw from politics because it is the best and most important for the Slovenian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs Patricia Shulin has the floor, Mr Srečko Meh is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Amendments and additions to the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia are more specifically governed by disproportionate responsibilities and responsibilities between the Agency and the Government. The area of capital investments is now regulated in a way that creates a disproportionate relationship between responsibility and competence. I hope I don't repeat myself. If the government has set up an agency to have a minor impact on its governance or on the management of state property, then I do not know how you explain yourself to the situation, as in the case of NKBM, which we have already heard about today, when state-owned companies participated in its recapitalisation, at the request of AUKN, because the state did not have the resources to cooperate. We know that for Mail Slovenia, buying shares in the new NKBM last year meant that it had to deduct more than half of the profits made. As a result, the profit before tax decreased by EUR 4 and a half million, and AUKN was never responsible for this reduction in profits. Let me just remind you that the 48 million cartridge in NKBM is worth less than half today. Also in view of the fact that the anti-corruption commission has been examining the impact on the management of the AUKN, I wonder whether the AUKN is really so credible and independent in its operation. All of this makes changes and supplements to the law necessary. But they are only, as the Minister of Finance has explained, a temporary solution because a more lasting and comprehensive solution is being prepared. It is also important that the change will lead to better cooperation between the AUKN and the Government. Nor does the proposal for a novelty involve policy involvement in the management of investments. By transferring the Agency's Council's powers to the government, we are actually reducing certain procedures and thus allowing the Agency to function more effectively. Also, the findings around the OECD definitions are not accurate and some of them would like to be shown differently in public, since the OECD has never given guidance on how individual countries should have resolved this area, only sets out the principles and guidelines for good governance of state-owned enterprises. But I can't get past the Ten Commandments and how nice we used to be. Therefore, let me say that we Slovenians had before the second world free 80% of the Austrian standard. In 1990, only 20% before independence. The answer to this is how nice we were, everyone will find it with us, especially in the fact that Slovenia owes almost EUR 17 billion today, up to an annual interest of almost 650 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Meh has the floor to prepare Mr Roman Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u40	Mr Minister, honourable Members and Members, Mr Vice-President. Actually, we're in an interesting situation. First of all, we are in an interesting situation because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by emergency procedure, proposes to amend the law on the agency for the management of capital shares. This, of course, tells the public that this is the biggest problem at this time. Secondly, it is very interesting that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has put this into an urgent process without being able to discuss it without being able to respect the principles that the Government has spoken and the President has said that we will discuss together what is problematic about our Slovenia. If, therefore, a respected position, a respected Minister and Government, you understand the functioning of this House, then of course I cannot agree with it. But I certainly expect that in the three months that we are here, in fact after the elections, we will get another proposal on what will happen, not a proposal to reshape the agency that has certainly shown results in the last year. And yet there's no analysis on the table of how the agency worked. Was she doing well or was she not doing well? What did this agency do wrong? To say that when the world is brought to an end, one who can really help with politics in the management of state property is purely seductive. When the government agreed on what they could do at the agency, it did two things — it extended time and found the culprit. And this is the culprit who will be responsible for everything – that is, the responsibility will be with the AUKN, but someone else will decide – the government. And because of this, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is extremely poor, extremely difficult. As an example, you gave NKBM. Someone talked about the 25% and one that there would be no politics. Please! You speak as they say, even at 25 or one share will be policy if politics interferes. Politics will interfere as long as it has the opportunity and as long as it interferes with anything while we can make decisions. We were talking about the NKBM. Is there an analysis of whether property was damaged? What would happen if we didn't recapitalize the New Maribor Credit Bank? What would happen then? If we didn't recapitalize it, what would be its value? How much damage would the state’s assets have been damaged? One possible solution was that the agency ordered and did something to keep the stake in NKBM. Actually, there's been a lot of talk about that. So today, of course, I would expect us to shut down the agency, and I would say, this is a man or a woman's act, anyhow, someone just tells a woman to shut down the agency and let's make a decision that the government will decide everything. And she'll have a responsibility. It is not that we have made a mailbox to which the guilty will fly, but that the government, the responsible ministers, and others will decide. And if anyone thinks that no one from the SDS should be appointed to any function of state-owned enterprises or SD or any other party, of course they are wrong. When we talked about Mr. Sovic, he was Secretary of State, a graduate electrical engineer, even a master. So a man who has all the qualities to be able to do this kind of work. We can say he's a member of a party, but he's certainly an expert. Therefore, I think that the amendment to Article 2 should also be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Jakič has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Melita Zupevec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Let me start by saying that I will not support any amendments and I will not support the proposed marriage solution. Let me also say that this government is actually very new, but it can already be named, as the colleague on Twitter called it: the government of temporary solutions. You come before the National Assembly with temporary solutions when it is a matter of the prosecution or when it is a matter of abolishing or reorganising the Capital Investment Management Agency. And that's not serious. We would come up with a proposal or wait and come up with the main proposal then, not to do it in the middle. Why are you working? Perhaps even because of what we heard from this side when we heard about political recruitment, I do not know why you pointed to Positive Slovenia with your finger. This party was established a few months ago. But if we are already in the field of political personnel, you may have left out the last political deployment in Maribor with Mr. Hauc, who is known from stories with a freeman. And we're not going to go through with this. I must say, I was surprised when we speak, for example, about the New Bank of Credit Maribor and the New Bank of Ljubljana and then the vehement words begin, how many millions. But no one tells you why you are not equally angry with the question of Bell 1 and Bell 2, which made 700 million holes in these two state banks, NLB and New Maribor Credit Bank, put 10,000 people on the road and we know that these claims will not be paid. All the others, the Scots and others, will be paid sooner or later, and the Church will never pay for it. Nobody's talking about it! But you're talking about other things. There's still something else I'd like to talk about before I say it substantively. Dr. Šuštaršič said that this statement he had on the committee yesterday was unwise and demanded an apology for not being able to talk about the metaphor. Metaphor – you know what it is. In the National Assembly, a secretary of state fell when he spoke of a metaphor, but he was talking about Matilda, who was walking around with a piece. Therefore, it would already be due to respect for the National Assembly, which is, of course, your superior – I have already said this today that in this country the government of parliamentary democracy rather than government democracy – so please treat the National Assembly with respect, as we treat the Government with respect, even though it is not ours. But if we're talking about the issue on the agenda, look, someone in this country needs to learn how to rule, and it's got to be the government. It follows from the Slovenian Book Language Dictionary that the government has the supreme executive power in the country, and to rule means to decide, to order in an organised social community, in particular in the country. When I listened to my colleague Tomc, I found that he thinks in essence as I do or as the Positive Slovenia Group thinks, that the Capital Investment Management Agency should be abolished. And you're doing something in between. I agree with my colleague Meho here. There's someone hiding behind some of the agency's fronts again. All decisions, which will be higher than €5 million, will be decided by the Government in this way. If the government wants to take responsibility for this and has to take over it, then terminate the AUKN. That would be the end of it. I will not support any amendments, I will vote against the law, and I hope that this government will become a government, not a government of temporary solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Melita Župevc, get Mr. Joseph Horvat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will not support the amendments or the marriage. But I can't support such a marriage for a simple reason, because this marriage is a cover. A cover that the government can hide behind. As has already been said today: if the Government has seized all the powers of the Capital Investment Management Agency, then all the key powers should simply be lifted. It has been said that we do not need any temporary solutions, not monthly or six months, since this reminds us of another solution. The Prosecutor's Office at the Ministry of the Interior is also likely to be temporary for four years and so on. In this place, I would like to say very clearly and frankly that I have never been satisfied with the work of the AUKN so far. In my previous term, I was critical to the work of this agency's leadership. In very specific cases, AUKN waved and held his hands on his ears, saw nothing, heard nothing. As a matter of fact, I was very often critical to the leadership of this agency and to work. But is the law with which the government comes a better way? I am sure that it does not hold what the Government says in its argument that this law will manage state property better, more economically, more responsibly. You'll find this very hard to convince me. Because you're working with this law, as has been said today, just some bypass, some cover. Take responsibility, abort AUKN now! This law could have a single article: "AUKN terminates." - Very simple. I will also tell you in plastic why it will be very difficult for this government to convince me that it will manage state property more economically, more responsibly. A comparison was made earlier, a comparison with Finland, when Finland has a special office or body with the Prime Minister who is concerned about the management of the state property of this case, but there is at least one important difference, namely that the Prime Minister is not Janez Janša. In the past, 2004-2008, we have clearly seen how Janša's government represents government management of state property. I've seen this before, so second time, I'm sorry, I can't believe it. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister with co-workers! Let me say that the New Slovenia Group will support the coalition amendment to Article 2 and will reject the amendment to Article 2 proposed by colleagues from the Social Democrats Group. I would like to remind you all that we have a new government in the Republic of Slovenia for one month and four days. In Nova Slovenije we understand temporary solutions because they are necessary because the time of assemblies is coming in the stock companies. That's the only reason. Managing capital investments in the country is not an easy matter and cannot be resolved without careful consideration. Therefore, we also expect our government to prepare quality solutions in the area of capital investment management of the Republic of Slovenia according to European criteria. I'm sure she'll prepare them, and the National Assembly will accept them. Some colleagues and colleagues, in particular those who are actually responsible for the establishment of this agency, have debated that this is an extremely politically independent organisation — an agency. Surely you, your respected colleagues and colleagues, have been monitoring in all Slovenian media how political accounts were conducted on the backs of this agency, especially at the top of the three KGB. We've all seen this and we've all read about it, and here I agree with the thought of colleague Melita Župevc. In New Slovenia, we believe that the country should be at least twice as careful as other ordinary owners in respect of corporate governance rules. We note that state supervisors in companies are now more delegated. In this area, ladies and gentlemen, we returned 20 to 30 years ago. In our opinion, the supervisory awards and fixed monthly lump sums, which they advocate and advocated at the AUKN, are not as controversial as the fact that supervision does not go in the direction of professionalization of this profession when supervisors live out of it and are responsible for any bad work. In Novi Slovenija we highlight the responsibility in particular and unfortunately there is no responsibility in Slovenia. Thus, we can conclude that there is a feeling that this is the afternoon earnings of delegates who have a predetermined way of voting and what they should even ask at the meetings of the supervisory boards. However, the acquisition of the Capital Investment Management Agency for senior supervisory lump sums is not unusual at all. We all remember how this agency has taken the initiative to reduce the employee's regression, for example, at the Triglav Insurance Company, rather than restrict the regressions upwards for senior employees, if of course it is under the competence of the AUKN. We believe that in a good year, if it were the right will, corporate governance by the State could be brought into the European established framework. So we are? We're not, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we must act, not after whispering, but after thorough reflection, with a responsibility that we are also aware of in the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. In this law, we have a lively debate, which mainly points to one thing: that the government has begun to rule. She started making decisions, and that's right. We will, of course, evaluate these decisions and, on the basis of these decisions, we will assess this government in four years. However, today is certainly such a time for decisions to be made. In particular, because failure to make a decision means a worse situation, it means a situation in which today, unfortunately, we have been and in which we may have been the last six, seven months, when there have been no real or wrong decisions. It must have been the worst situation at the time. Today, the question is, why don't we shut down the Agency? Very clear: knowledge of the Slovenian capital area implies that we must take into account that we now have a capital company alongside the Agency, a Slovenian compensation company, a DSU, a d.o.o., and some legal persons, a PDP and so on, dealing with the property of the country. All of these are concerned with the property of the country and all of these are created by some kind of inertia based on different laws, different decisions. Of course, this is bad, it's opaque, it's opaque, it's unpredictable, it's not responsible and it's not effective. That's probably why we have less assets today than we had six months ago or than we had two years ago, three years ago. I'm sorry. To increase the value of assets, it is necessary to centralise governance in one place so that we know what we have and what we will do with it. The Agency did not carry out its homework, did not write a governance strategy for state property. He's just gone. Which means we simply do not have predictable decisions that will take place in front of the congregations of the most important financial institutions, the largest companies where, if you want, the country has its own silver. It would be irresponsible to leave it to no one or leave it to someone who does not actually have a strategy to be adopted by the National Assembly. The other thing is that we are talking today about the so-called OECD guidelines. The OECD will not exclude us for this. The OECD guidelines do not specify either the form or content. The OECD guidelines say that the government must not interfere with this law on a daily basis, but the government will not interfere with business operations on a daily basis. This is probably clear to everyone, and this is why the creation of such fears is completely superfluous. The government rules. The government has begun to rule, and it is likely that it will also be able and will be able to staff according to its skills and expertise. These personnel will also be responsible to the government. However, before the government starts to recruit, if you want to politically, it is necessary to remove policy from the current supervisory councils, administrations and so on. For today, there are enough policies in the supervisory councils and administrations that actually make bad decisions, and because of these bad decisions, we always have less property. In addition to the case already mentioned, the Agency has taken contested decisions not only here, but also in the case of Elan, Photone, Adrie Airways, Gorenje, Geoterma, etc. In short, these decisions are not limited. I am talking about disputed decisions when, for example, it came to the effect that a stopover would harm State property. We have three cases here, these are public cases. That is why it is right and I will personally support all the coalition amendments and the law as a whole in order to prevent such anomalies as have occurred in the past and to start to manage state property wisely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The list of applicants has been exhausted. Again, I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I can see that. I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. The word has magic. Dejan Židan, get Mr. Janko Weber ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u50	Mr President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Mr Minister! The minister doesn't feel the need to be in our company anymore. Today's debate is interesting because it's a lot of fog and it's like you're afraid to tell the truth what you want. The fact is simple: part of the policy wants – this is also what you had in the electoral programmes – to sell part of Slovenian property. Don't hide it, that's what you want to do! We're against it, we think it's a big mistake. I want you to do this first, go to Hungary, there is a government like the current Slovenian, and ask them why they are now correcting this mistake they have made. But don't hide it from the Slovenian public! Second of all, don't hide it either. You do not want Slovenian companies, where the country is the majority owner, to be run professionally, outside of politics. You have a good experience with Intereuropo – it is gone, Luka Koper you managed to get on your knees and these companies are still quite a lot in Slovenia. I'm sorry you don't take this experience into account in your plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. The mere fact that the current government has an immediate intervention in its priority with the Capital Investment Management Agency speaks of the importance of this agency. If this agency were not so important, we would not have this law today at this extraordinary meeting, and if we follow what has happened with the urgency of this law – it was announced in the College before the Government even considered this law – it shows that the real appetites for capital investments in Slovenia are very large. When you say that former Prime Minister Pahor mentioned that the operation of the Capital Investment Management Agency needs to be improved, it is a fact. That is still what we today say and defend. Even if today the Social Democrats had the opportunity to lead the Slovenian government, they would upgrade the functioning of the Capital Investment Management Agency in precisely those areas and parts that we felt during this short period of operation of the Agency in order to upgrade them. However, the fact is that in this short operation, i.e. since October 2010, the Agency's report makes it very clear that the profit from the operation increased by 45 % to EUR 289 million. The net profit almost tripled to EUR 186 million. The net return on equity increased from 1.5 % to 3 %. Companies increased their share of equity funding by 49.8%. Therefore, it is clear evidence that the Agency acted with State property as well as any private owner. And that is what we wanted before we discussed this law, to present it to the committee in the National Assembly, to discuss first what the Agency had done and what had actually happened. You do not want to hear this, you want to decide only on the political position and close this matter as soon as possible and reach your goal of making a drastic contribution to capital investments. With regard to the appointment of Mr Sovič to an energy company in Maribor. In this mandate, when we are not Social Democrats in power, the Agency appointed Mr Sovic. If we were in power, of course we could talk about political recruitment. However, since Mr Sovič is an energy expert, the Agency has only proved that, irrespective of the current authority, there is more expertise than political decisions. That's concrete proof of that. About the New Maribor Credit Bank. Why did the Agency propose a replacement, make a proposal to replace the Supervisory Board? Because she wanted to take responsibility for all those companies that bought out the bank's share or invested their funds in the New Credit Bank Maribor and, last but not least, this bank remained in 51% of the ownership of the Slovenian state. The Post Bank of Slovenia remained in our possession, the Maribor Insurance Office also; hence, it secured the property of the Republic of Slovenia. Since the Agency wanted to successfully carry out and justify the trust of those who invested their funds in the New Credit Bank Maribor, it is normal to require the management of the good operation of this bank. Only good bank management can bring about an increase in shares and thus maintain the investments made by these companies by investing in this bank. Finally, Nova Credit Bank Maribor also maintained a very high standard of business according to international estimates. No one can shut that up. The new candidate who wants to take over management, Mr Hauc, also makes this clear and speaks out loud. Therefore, it is very responsible for the Agency's actions that, if it has already entrusted someone as a state-owned company to buy a stake in a state bank, it also wants this bank to operate successfully. So it is a very consistent policy of operation and management, professional management of capital investments; all of this is what you want to end overnight and with political interests to manage again capital investments. That's proven poorly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Certainly, this matter and these changes to the law are extremely important. Already in the introduction, one of the Members of your team said that once and for all, political interference with the Agency had been resolved and even good corporate governance had been ensured. This is absolutely not true because then the situation in Slovenia would be different, then the Agency would have a higher profit, 10% not only 3%. I can believe that the intentions were good – I am looking across the spectrum. For that they were good purposes, I can also believe on the basis that many times the path to hell is pressed with good intentions. I must say that most of the parties had before the elections a plan to abolish the Agency, but from various interests. Those we have now taken power to better manage capital investments. Here, your client, I must say that the Agency has been on many journeys and has also been setting up financial oligarchic circles around your President – the former mayor, and now the candidate for the Ljubljana mayor. We know that she was very much on the road, because in some things I must even commend the AUKN for replacing the Chairman of the NKBM Supervisory Board, which I have repeatedly pointed out here, far earlier that the experience with him is such that he will not care about state property. Two years ago, three years earlier, I had warned and asked the then minister how the then authority for financial supervisors placed wolves as sheep keepers. It's been a long time, and here I consider it good for the Agency to finally replace it. Of course, there was panic in these circles, because that president was once an SD candidate there, not in the finals, forerunners in the elections, but then he went under the influence or his whole life was under the influence of those whom Mr. Židan once called "the uncle from behind". And those "backset uncles" have, of course, supported these oligarchic circles that have merged around Mr Jankovic. That's why the Agency was stumbled, and I admit she was stumbled. As a result, the capital cycles — or an extremely powerful financial oligarchy — have been politically and interestingly employed by the Council of the Agency. However, I think it is wise for the Government to do something here to ensure good governance. Today, when we say this, I must say that not every recruitment by the state is political, or sometimes politics can be a savior. We know about Mr Starman that he was a politician before, and then he went and saved something. There's more than one case like this. I must say that the intentions are right this time, so I support these changes to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list again. I take it you're still asking me to discuss it? [[...]] I'm reopening the debate. I stress that we are discussing two amendments to Article 2 of the Act. Check-in is on. Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor, Mr Jože Tanko is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u56	I'm going to repeat the two sentences again, by supporting the amendment of the coalition and not supporting the amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u57	Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly, at the proposal of any Member, must decide that each Member may discuss the same subject only once. There was no such proposal and therefore Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Like I said, around the amendments. True, statistics and percentages are a very strange thing. Statistics are meant to say what you want to say. With statistics, you can still manipulate percentages. To say that the Agency has been successful – perhaps in some areas, I am not saying no. But don't tell me how successful she was if she got ten million out of five million, she was 100 percent better. But maybe the results should be 50, 90, 100 million. I'll tell you exactly. Many times it has been said: drawing on European funds. We have improved the use of European funds by 86%. But please! What we have also noted today is that the use of European funds over the three years under the previous government has been catastrophic. There were no calls, no contracts, and the statistics they showed were misleading and very incorrect. The results that have been as they are — we see where we are. The only thing you've done is you've been in charge of this country for three years. That didn't work out for the three Drnovsk governments before, and he did the highway with it. As for the replacement, you were consistent – you replaced the President of the Supervisory Board of the New Credit Bank of Mr Toplek. Almost on our knees we asked, we wrote letters to Minister Križanič, I don't know what we proved, everything was transparent about how the secret owner of the secret society, the director of the state society, and so on. Because of everything that's happened, today the value of the NKB is almost zero where it is. So don't say it was good, obviously it wasn't. This government wants to rule and must rule, and it is right that it will do as it thinks it can rule and lead these things towards the start of economic development. Since we are no longer in debt, all we have to do is work — and no more loans!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't think in this short period of time, since we have established the Government, it's possible to come before the National Assembly with some systemic solution that would regulate fully, as you say in the SD, the management of state property. It's impossible. By the way, the Capital Investment Management Agency was unable to prepare a management strategy for these investments within two years and had a part of this segment. And you demand that someone prepare a systemic approach in this area within one month. At the same time, I would like to remind you that even in your species, they are aware that the management of capital assets, as set out in this law, is not good. In fact, Prime Minister Borut Pahor's former Prime Minister found that the law was not comprehensive, that the law was not good, that certain solutions were lacking, and he also realized that the management of the assets was not independent, but through the Agency, that it was managed through the Agency's administration and the Council of the Agency by the background gentlemen. This is why last summer he also reported the behaviour of AUKN to the anti-corruption commission. It is said that the awareness of the former Prime Minister, who has processed this law through the government and through the coalition in the National Assembly, is such that he does not attach to what you so vehemently emphasize. If it had not been managed in this area by suspicion of corruption, the former Prime Minister of his institution's principal, known as AUKN, would probably not have reported to the anti-corruption commission. That the work in this area was blurred, Mr Zoran Jankovic also stated just before the vote in the national elections. It is said that the awareness that things are not going as transparent, as transparent, as responsible, as effective as some say, is present in the National Assembly and is also present in your highest policies in the National Assembly – the president of your party, Ambassador Borut Pahor, knows that it is not as you say. Mr Zoran Jankovic also knows that it is not as some say. Given the state's assets, I wonder what it's wise to do in this case. Whether to let gentlemen from the background manage this property, as Mr Borut Pahor and Mr Zoran Jankovic have determined, or whether the state, the Government, on its behalf, makes a serious short-term move and cuts these cords, these extensions in this area. I think that the proposal in the National Assembly is the only right, the only one worthy, the only rational one to make order in this area, and that whoever has taken responsibility to give consent to this procedure will also assume responsibility for these actions. Everything else that you're talking about and what you're rooting for means essentially the same thing as a sticker - it says, some hidden label where they're transferred, where they're created, some form, I'll say, politically corporate monopolies and manage these things in an opaque, non-transparent way somewhere in the background, and channel state property in ways that aren't good. That the work in this area is not good, it will likely also be seen from the balance sheets of banks, one, the other, the third or any other in this work. No one is brilliant, gentlemen. They're showing a loss. There is likely to be something that needs to be taken into account in this area. Even if the Agency itself has not done its work well, there is also a variety of agreement on the appointment of directors. For example, Slovenian Railways are already such a case when the Supervisory Board appointed the director of one of the largest companies in the country, the Agency did not give its consent – it is not appointed. We leave 8,000 employees of the biggest railway operator in Slovenia to lose leadership. There are many of these cases, including in banks, in particular, this is happening because Nova Ljubljanska Banka does not yet have operational leadership. It's hard for someone to tell me that the agency's work in this area is responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Boyan Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. I have proposed several times in the last 10, 15 years that it would be wise and useful to pool all the state's assets in one place in the country and in some way ensure quality management of this property. Of course, this can only be managed qualitatively by those who are qualified to do so, who know this and who have a well-established strategy and game rules. I've said it many times. It may be the Agency, it may be anyone, but the state is obliged to lay down very clear rules of play, conduct, strategy and all, then it can only monitor implementation. If, within the framework of these rules laid down by the State, the matter is being realized, carried out, then this agency is, or anyone has already succeeded. But if you don't, you need to replace the agency, the people in the agency, if that's state or whatever. Therefore, the situation of this agency that we now have is also clear. Someone said that the State Investment Management Act was not fully implemented – as it is well said. The fact is that no strategy has been adopted. If, in my opinion, it would be very easy to say, this agency should not exercise its powers until this strategy has been adopted, confirmed by the Government or wherever – it is also obliged to prepare – and whatever it does it should not, because there are no prescribed and written rules for the game to behave. Each government will then control itself or do what is right — for one another, not for the other. If this were to be written clearly and clearly, then there would not be this constant conjecture, who and how it affects and interferes with these matters. In my opinion, this agency should not work because the government has not adopted an essential element for the functioning of the Agency. That's wrong. The minister cannot say that the proposal prepared by the agency is bad – which was prepared last year. You should not allow the Agency to operate until there are certain rules for the game to operate on. That's why I think this temporary proposal is real and I'm going to support this thing. This government, and all I ask, to make these rules of the game and then to have anyone run by these rules, which we will decide here in the National Assembly. And even on this occasion, when I spoke earlier about the general situation in the economy, let, for God's sake, do something as quickly as possible to improve the conditions of the economy, for our greater competitiveness in the markets, because we are actually in a dead end. Our companies, not just state-owned, are all failing. National companies, these are monopolistic companies that have virtually a market provided by Petrol, Telekom, various companies, not to mention insurance companies, banks – these are companies for which we also know who is in control in banks. As Chairman of the Finance Committee, I went to the Council of the Bank of Slovenia and listened, but I warned about what was wrong, and they also corrected what was wrong. The Supervisory Council, the Government, was also invited to the meeting. Why, for God's sake, there's at least a little bit of intelligence out there, even though they're secret, you can see something. This situation that has happened could be prevented, but as I said before, we want and always make such a perfect fog that everyone can then fish in this mud sea, or water, or anything. That is why order must be made, and action must be taken very quickly, and so it cannot go on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Plevčak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. I'd like to join you and maybe just continue here where Mr. Starman ended up. Indeed, we are all aware that in the end it does not matter who has the main word or who leads: whether it is a committee or whether it is a government or not. The primary focus is control and control of the flow of financial resources. We need to be clear here once again that financial flows need to be controlled, monitored, because our democratic consciousness is not yet so far away from being fair enough for me. I think that in this area too, when adopting these rules or rules of operation and mode of management, it will be necessary to say "bob" and put in leading positions – that is to say, in the Administrative and Supervisory Committees – responsible people who will respond financially, materially, criminally. Then I hope that we will not have such problems and that our control can work or that we will know where our money is leaking and leaking. We know there's a lot of him out there, abroad, and that's the means that we could really use right now in these times of crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Anyone else? Please sign up for the debate. Thank you very much. Two panellists have been reported. I give the floor to Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u66	Madam Vice President, I think you're behind this chair for the first time, let me congratulate you once again! You are talking about the need to exercise greater responsibility and that political responsibility will be the guarantee that prevents abuses and also thefts in companies. I'm afraid it's a hoax because we've had nothing from political responsibility so far. Today, if we did not talk in this House on these political trenches, where this power gap between the government and the opposition is so strong that we do not know how to talk about the arguments, then we could find that even with the AUKN, including with the two powerful bodies within this agency, it is possible to provide greater responsibility. This law states that the Agency reports to the National Assembly once a year. Why we did not take advantage of this opportunity and consider the interim report, which would, inter alia, show that the profit from operating in the economic operators managed by the Agency increased by 45 %; that net profit almost tripled to EUR 186 million; that the net return on equity increased from 1.5 % to 3 %. And no one is saying that this is enough to achieve the objective of quality capital management of the country's investments! On the contrary! But it is wise to once set up a system, as Mr Starman says. And we have put the system in the previous term, and you are now putting it on your head – it will be your responsibility. Among other things, this law would require a clearer definition of when the National Assembly could call off the Agency's administration or council. We haven't taken advantage of any of these opportunities! Instead, we change the concept – to the head. Of course, the fear of the opposition is so much greater because it is predicted that a large number of things are being privatized in this country. The banks are specifically mentioned, and I remember the 2004 and 2008 mandates, when Holding the Slovenian Power Plant and among them the pearl of Slovenian energy – the Drava Power Plants chain, which produce the most competitive energy in Slovenia. That was even a government strategy back then. This strategy has created two pillars of Slovenian energy. But do we really want to go into selling out everything in this Slovenia that we will depend on for a long time? No! No! Because we don't want to be a state of servants! Because we want to bet on Slovenian knowledge and that economic operators will create an opportunity here! General navigation is currently on sale, although it is prepared in a strategy that, by the way, seemed too restrictive for someone to sell state investments, which has not yet reached parliament – today is a minority share, 25.1% of the share that Kad and the Court have. What will be the next move of the majority owner? The management of the fleet of 30 ships will simply transfer to Hamburg and we will be able to forget about those dreams to swim across the ocean and sail around the world under the Slovenian flag. You talk a lot about the New Maribor Credit Bank. Why? Not only the Agency, but also the National Assembly in the previous term prevented the initial proposed method of recapitalisation of the New KBM, because this would result in the loss of the acquisition premium by the State. In the night, 51% of the bank's owners would become 34% owner of the bank; and one thing is, when you sell 51%, it's completely different when you sell 34%. Even more than Mariborčan, I oppose the privatisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor. Neoliberal economists will never know what benefits a bank, a healthy environmental operator in the form of support for sport, culture and other activities can provide. When you decide to privatize the New KBM, I respectfully ask you what people in Maribor think. And by the way, when did we crash the banks? When did we crash the banks? We failed banks in a specific period between 2004 and 2008, which is why [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me, that's a fact! And that's why, ironically, today's political elite has the same opportunity to privatize this bank. How interesting.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u68	Today, again or very much has been said about whether we have a national property management strategy. This strategy has been developed, this strategy has been in government and has been addressed and requested by the Government to complement. Today we accept a change of law without talking about this strategy. I don't know if the new government has talked about this strategy. I don't know if the government has a strategy. When Mr Starman spoke about the fact that we should have a strategy on the way and that the AUKN should not work at all until it has a strategy and what it can do – I'm sorry, even the government has no strategy. Today, with the amendment to Article 2, the change in the world that we are about to accept today is something that we do not even know what the result will be. But, gentlemen! One year will pass quickly, and one year from now we will talk about what the results are, and then we will be able to talk about whether we were successful or not. Of course, I understand today why we're doing the AUKN mailbox to make him guilty. Because "backstairs", a government or government policy, will decide what will happen through the AUKN. This will not be a daily policy, it will be a policy that will not be a day. The OECD will not act on this; but politics must get out of the economy. I ask the government again if this is the most important thing we have to do today. A month after we appointed the government and when we call on it, what are we going to do for the economy – what are we going to discuss here today? Have we heard the AUKN report about when we are changing it? We are amending the Capital Investment Management Agency Act without listening to their report. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members, today we are deciding to change something that we have not discussed, we have not had this report and we could have done so. That's why it seems to me that we're trapped in a position of power; from this position of power we say: we're going to decide, we're going to rule. To rule doesn't mean to name your own staff. To rule means to manage what is ours, so it will be transparent. And if you're talking about "back-back uncles," then you need to know who those "back-back uncles" are. I don't know any of these uncles myself, so I can tell. Today, someone in this Chamber was talking about the fact that the President of the Government himself initiated the procedure or applied to the anti-corruption commission. What, though, should the President of the Government do if he doubts any of the decisions of the AUKN? What am I supposed to do? He replaced the president of the AUKN? We have an anti-corruption commission to do this without the Prime Minister doing it! And I'm afraid that's the way, the model, the way we're going to change when we don't like any decision. Finally, the question is, are we honest? I'm sorry. We've been honest for so long, until they prove guilty. This applies to the Prime Minister and to each of us. The President of the government himself is on trial, and he's honest because we didn't prove it to him. That is why we are talking about the honesty of Members and Members of Parliament and this House, we are doing fairly and in good faith that we will preserve this property so that we will not sell it cheaply, as we have already done! If we're full of mouths about how we're supposed to protect our assets, then we're talking about what it is. We are talking about what this situation is like, and we may be able to make a better decision than today, which we do not know what the results will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Anyone else wants to discuss Article 2 and the amendments tabled? He doesn't want to. Since no one wants to discuss this article anymore, I conclude the debate. I am opening the debate on Article 7 and the amendment tabled. I'm asking you to sign up. Thank you very much. Three panellists applied for the debate. Please, Mr. Dejan jeedan, you're giving up. Mr. Franzege.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u70	The amendment tabled by the Social Democrats to Article 7 abolishes the regime, as proposed by the Government, in order for those investments for which the National Assembly would decide, on a proposal from the Government, to be managed by the Government in some form of availability, recapitalisation, sale. We're sceptical to this solution. Yesterday, Mr Šuštersič, Minister of Finance, pointed out that discussions on the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank are already under way, and the procedure will therefore be as follows: The government will agree on something and then propose to the National Assembly a form of deployment, i.e. the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, and then – this is how the Government imagines – the government will also conduct the recapitalisation process. We believe that even if this is a temporary solution. In the country, we still have a Capital Investment Management Agency, although the Government's intervention in this law will seriously decimate its power, but, according to our amendment, this procedure should be led by the Capital Investment Management Agency. It has all the necessary analysis, all the tools necessary to do so in the public interest by protecting the best interests of the Republic of Slovenia after the protection of public property, and on the other hand the health and normal development of the largest Slovenian bank. We invite you to support the amendment of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. First, I would answer all those critics who stumble upon the appointment of the Magi. Borisa Sovič at the head of the energy company in Maribor. Mag. Sovič was Secretary of State for Energy, he is a graduate engineer in this field and now he also has a scientific master's degree in this field. How, then, should I understand the provision of coalition Members and Members to decide on the professional qualifications and not on the other hand if they stumble upon this appointment when they are appointed to individual management posts. On all other matters related to the New Bank of Credit Maribor and as far as northeastern Slovenia is concerned, my colleague Frangež has already responded comprehensively enough. But I would like to express my own view of something that, in my opinion, is becoming a fundamental problem. In the National Assembly, we have a party called the National Gazette. During the debate on the democratic deficit, I would therefore expect those coming from this party to take care of the correct balance between the individual branches of government. I therefore find it difficult to agree that the autonomy of the decision is ensured if the world is deprived of its right and the right is transferred to the Government. And then we hear that verification of this decision, put in the National Assembly, is a safeguard. What a safeguard, for it is known that the coalition has a majority and will only attach itself to its government, which we hear in one way or another must rule and finally begin to rule. There are very different views on how to act against the OECD. I must say that you have double criteria: on the one hand, consider the OECD guidelines non-binding. In the case of AUKN, which is supposed to be such an independent, autonomous body, the guidelines are not binding. I am very interested in how you will react to the OECD guidelines or recommendations when we conclude, at the Ministry of Justice, that the reduction of standards and standards is due to the fact that the OECD has imposed savings. So much for that. But in the first chapter, which discusses an effective legal and regulatory framework for state-owned companies, the OECD stated exactly what the separation between the ownership function of the State and other state functions should be – not to read everything. It is also stated in the second chapter, where the State in the role of owner is mentioned that the Government must not interfere with the day-to-day management of state-owned companies – Mr Šircelj, you cited this. Yeah, what's the other thing that's gonna happen if the government doesn't agree, like interfering with the day-to-day management of state-owned companies? And now it's just this thought or moaning that the government can't solve everything so quickly in such a short time. Yeah, well, who forced the government to make a change of law through the emergency procedure we're talking about? Were those perhaps the tenth measures for a way out of the crisis that had been discussed? No! No! But what the Government could do if it took into account the relationship between the Government and the National Assembly and the powers it has with regard to the AUKN. I could suggest the discharge of the AUKN administration and the world. However, for this resolution to be transmitted to the National Assembly, the Government should also state the reasons why the discharge is proposed. However, it seems that the government did not want to do this and rather made changes to the law, which, by the way, the profession does not welcome with any special applause and enthusiasm, but points out a number of complex situations that may also arise in voting rights and elsewhere. So much for that. However, I suggest that Mr Šušteršič not get involved with literary theoretical concepts. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Is there any other desire to discuss Article 7? Replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. In view of the fact that I have been mentioned, I would still explain what day-to-day business means and day-to-day involvement in companies, perhaps from my own practice, because I have already been there. The day-to-day management of the company usually means deciding on the day-to-day decisions on how the company will operate in the financial, purchasing, selling, human resources area. These decisions are usually made in a series of small, small decisions. Here and there, of course, are also slightly larger decisions when an individual company, an economic company, adopts an annual plan when it adopts the implementation of the annual plan and so on. Certainly the government is not in the role and cannot be in the role of running individual companies on a daily basis. Here I think I owe this explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u75	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, the debate for Article 7 is no longer open, so I am concluding this debate. I am opening a debate on Article 9 and on the amendments tabled by the Group of Social Democrats or only one amendment tabled by the Group of Social Democrats. I ask for a debate or an application for a debate. Thank you very much. Mr. Frangež, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u76	From today's debate and from yesterday's findings on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, it is clear that we have made a stalemate of the Capital Investment Management Act, which, at the time it was adopted, was a deliberate measure to curb the impact of economic policy. It is absurd that today, a social democrat to neoliberals, including the finance ministry, proves that the impact of economic policy is harmful. While these same liberals want more countries in this economy. That's too bad. At the same time, we note that all of this is a temporary solution to the fact that there was only some initial political courtesy, the reason why the Government did not prepare a solution whereby capital investment management would be taken directly by the Government. Remember, that was the idea when the SDS was in opposition. Given that these are temporary solutions, however, we are proposing an amendment to the transitional and final provisions that the part that has been the most disruptive in the government amendment to this law until yesterday should be suspended until October of this year. Until then, the government should prepare this comprehensive system solution, which it announces with a large bell, at the same time represents exactly what we fear: a perfectly legal, open policy march in the administrations and supervisory councils of companies owned by the country, which will also pave the way for the mass privatisation of what 20 years after the privatisation of Slovenia succeeded in maintaining its ownership. I invite you to support the amendment by which we will temporarily postpone the Government's approval of the Agency's decisions on how its representatives should act in the Economic Operators' Assembly. This may at least be a time-consuming warning, which is also expected by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The OECD did not write some guidelines in vain. With the actions you will enjoy today in the Capital Investment Management Act, you take the independence of the Capital Investment Management Agency, fully subordinate it to the Government in operational terms, and even those tasks that have been fully delegated to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia since yesterday by one authority within the Agency. These are bad decisions, and I hope that these decisions will ever leave you with a headache in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a debate on this point? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since there is no longer a desire to discuss, we are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. First, on the amendments to Article 2. Two amendments were tabled in Article 2. We will first vote on the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats. If this amendment is adopted, then the second amendment tabled by the SDS Members' Groups, the list of Gregor Virant, the Slovenian People's Party Group, the Democratic Party of Pensioners and NSI, will be irrelevant. This is said to be an amendment to Article 2 of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democrats of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 70. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 70.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also voting on the amendment of the Common List of Groups to Article 2. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 36. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on Article 7 and on the amendment tabled by the Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 71. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 71.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also voting on the amendment to Article 9 as well as the Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 70. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 70.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We've concluded our second treatment. Given that the National Assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 2 of the amended Law, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. Anybody want to make an amendment? No one wants to invest, the SDS Group could table for the adoption of the amendment. Thank you very much. We're moving to third reading. Given that we have problems with the harmonisation of the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Excuse me, just a moment. I'm being alerted by the professional services that we have a problem with authorization. Given that the Minister is expected to be present, of course you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u78	Thank you very much. As a result of the amendments adopted at the meeting of the parent working body, we have a proposal for an uncoordinated law, so we would propose a harmonisation amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Since the Government has warned, if I have understood you correctly, you have warned that a harmonisation amendment is needed, I suggest or ask the Government to prepare appropriate harmonisation amendments. He's got some time to prepare, so I'm canceling the session in 30 minutes. Here you go. You have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u80	Honorable Presidential and Honourable Assembly! Given that the government is not quite able to react when the time is right; that is, the time for making amendments has run out. We saw this ridiculous awkwardness when you didn't know who to react to. Please, if you take the rules of procedure into account and determine how it is actually going. We're young, new, but we know so much that this harmonisation amendment just like that, a little out of pocket, it just can't go out of hand. Therefore, I ask for legal interpretation of the procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u81	The case is all in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The government has only warned of the non-compliance of the law, it is only about the harmonisation amendment. The government has time to prepare the harmonisation amendments, as I predicted, for 30 minutes. We're adjourning the session and moving on at 17. 15. I'm sorry. Who wants a procedural proposal? Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. I think, however, that the rules of procedure and such a finding as you have made in this procedure must be respected, but only the authorised representative of the Government can make. You yourself have found that the authorised representative of the Government is not at the meeting. So I ask that you first ensure the proper presence of someone who has the authority to determine what you have found that the law is not harmonised. As long as it's not, the National Assembly can't accept it that way. If this law has been dealt with in a hurry in the way that the Secretary-General of the Government mentioned at the College of the President of the National Assembly that the agenda should be extended, then I expect at least the presence of the authorised representative of the Government even when this law is being considered. Unfortunately, we do not have it, and I fear that the deadline for the submission of the harmonisation amendment has actually expired. If the government wants to solve this problem, it will probably have to solve it by introducing a new amendment and supplementing the Capital Investment Management Act. I suggest in a procedural manner that you ensure the presence of at least the authorised representative of the Government, otherwise your conclusion cannot be taken into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u83	I hope we can solve this complication together. Mr Zivkovic is, of course, authorised as Secretary of State, but is not in fact listed as an authorised representative of the Government, because the Minister is listed here and Dr Dejan Krušec is next to him. I therefore believe that the Government must ensure the presence of authorised representatives as soon as possible. Please suspend the session or schedule the suspension of the sitting in 15 minutes. At this time, I ask the Government to provide the relevant representatives at the meeting. We'll resume the session at 17.05.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u84	Dear Members and Members! Please take your seats. We're continuing our adjourned session. Mr. Secretary, thank you for joining us. I give you my word as a representative of the Government to give you a position on the coherence of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u85	Nicely greeted! First of all, I apologize for having to wait, but there was some administrative error, because we thought that both the Secretary of State had been authorized to represent the Government and the Minister of Finance. So, unfortunately, there's been a complication. Otherwise, as you can imagine, we're working on a rebalancing. I can also comfort you that I'm not very angry yet. Now for the amendment. Yesterday, after the meeting of the committee, when the amendment was tabled by the SDS Group, we found that the amendment adopted had led to non-compliance in the law, so we are proposing an amendment to remedy these inconsistencies. In substance, this harmonisation amendment means that since the powers of the Council of the Agency have been transferred by this amendment to the Government, then the articles which, in any way, govern this Council have no meaning and we propose deleting them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Since the Government has warned that after the third reading of the bill due to the amendments adopted is inconsistent, I ask the Government to prepare a harmonisation amendment. The National Assembly will adjourn the meeting for the preparation of this amendment. We'll resume in 20 minutes. I'm adjourning the session in 20 minutes. We'll pick it up at 5:40. No procedural matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u87	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm informing you that the Government has not yet been able to prepare a harmonisation amendment. Therefore, we are adjourning the meeting and will continue the meeting at 6.20 p.m. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Only if you let me explain. This proposal, which you currently have on the bench, is still being checked by the Government to verify whether it is the right one or will replace it with another harmonisation amendment. We're adjourning the session, as it was said, until 6:20.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u88	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're continuing our adjourned session. [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go, Mr. Frangezh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u89	Madam Vice-President, I note that you have missed the raised hand twice on purpose, accompanied by a cry: "Procedural!" I take it that you have clearly violated Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure twice, which states: "A Member who wishes to speak on the application of the Rules of Procedure [[Procedural question]] That the Chairman's word as soon as he demands it. The speech of this Member shall not last more than three minutes. The President shall decide on the application of the Rules of Procedure." Twice, before two interruptions, I requested a word for a procedural question. Madam Vice-President, with all due benevolence, I will escort this unacceptable slip of yours and I ask you not to afford it again. If you have authority in this country, this does not mean that this authority is unlimited, regardless of whether these may be the appetites of the political groups that belong to it, and regardless of the interference with the law that we are talking about today, you are actually undermining one of the borders of unlimited authority. In Hungary, they intervened in the independence of the central bank. Personally, I wonder whether such interventions are actually just a precursor and the announcement of what may still be to be followed in this country. For your sake, for the good of your customers and for the good of Slovenia, I hope this is not the case. So I ask you politely to respect the rules of procedure. So we have a new amendment ahead of us. First, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with the signature of the Secretary-General of the Government, has placed one amendment on our tables. This amendment was clearly contrary to Rule 132 of the Rules of Procedure, since it affected the areas of law which had not been opened in this procedure. Let me remind you that, before yesterday, the representatives of the Social Democrats pointed out these issues by the Legal and Legislative Service, we had already pointed out yesterday, on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, that the law of the interior is inconsistent. Earlier, Mr Shircelj spoke vehemently about the government ruling. If the government did rule, then perhaps from yesterday evening when the disharmony was established [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u90	Dear Mr Frangež, you had a procedural proposal. Please stick to the content.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u91	But no later than this morning, when this disharmony was also detected by the Legal and Legal Service to eliminate these inconsistencies. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u92	Anyone else want a procedural proposal? Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u93	Madam President, I apologize. A respected choir! In view of the fact that you are holding your first session today and have initially enjoyed a kind of trip and have achieved by violating the Rules of Procedure that the meeting has begun to be conducted incorrectly. In view of the fact that I warned your professional work about irregularities and thought that this would never happen again, you repeated it again: immediately after. That's why I'm going to say, because later I approached you and warned you again and you made it clear to me with a smile that you were going to continue the violation. It is more than clear that such leadership does not merit this assembly, even though we represent a minority and are in opposition. Indeed, it must be realized that "mother democracy" does not mean that anyone can say what he wants to say, but that in the first place, he is primarily responsible for what he says or does. That is why in Positive Slovenia we have decided to obstruct such further work and, of course, also obstruct your way of working. I therefore announce, after Article 65, the obstruction of the work of the National Assembly. This also suggests that you consider how you intend to proceed with your work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your proposal, Mr. Möderndorfer. We're moving on. Since the Government has pointed out that, due to the amendments adopted after the third reading, the proposal for a law is inconsistent, the Government has prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 2 which you have received on the bench. Mr. Minister, would you like a word on behalf of the Government?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u95	Thank you very much. As it is said, we have prepared a harmonisation amendment to replace the one previously tabled and to take into account what has been said that we do not interfere with articles that were not open at the beginning of the proposal for amendments to the law. Then we also follow this opinion, which you mentioned. I don't think it makes sense for me to summarize the contents because you got it. So much for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Do Members and Members want the word? There's someone else who's registered. Just one application. Mr. Frangež, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u97	According to the original proposal of the Capital Investment Management Act, the government has already resorted to the Agency’s independence by requiring the public-owned companies’ assemblies to obtain the approval of the Government. Still, despite the harmonisation amendment and the amendments in second reading, the Government has not replied to what happens if the Government does not agree to any decision of the Agency. Does the state then have a structured position to go to congregations of specific economic societies? It's the first thing that's greatly interfered with in this marriage. With the harmonisation amendment, you are saving yesterday's embarrassment after the Slovenian Democratic Party, without other coalition partners on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, has proposed that all powers from the Council of the Agency as the Agency's internal body have been transferred to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, the final illusion of the independence of the Capital Investment Management Agency was definitively undermined and the point that could still be discussed was decisively exceeded when it was possible to meet the guidelines of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. What the consequences and the actions of the OECD will be, we do not want to speculate at this time, but there will certainly be unpleasant issues for the Finance Ministry. In the harmonisation amendment itself, the government is in the process of solving the embarrassment that has arisen by giving to the world two, the truth to the loving, insignificant task of the world, which is thus no longer without a mandate, but will then adopt the management code and appoint members of the accreditation commission on a proposal from the administration. It should be noted that both tasks have already been completed, so that the world probably does not have new tasks. The government has fully subordinated the Agency by taking over the authority of the world. The political responsibility you have on the flag of amendments to this legislation will not bring any good. No political responsibility was established even when you had the opportunity to manage the country and in many cases have you significantly weakened important economic societies in our country. In fact, in the Capital Investment Management Agency, it may interfere with what the Capital Investment Management Agency has already done in some cases; and this is that once they have identified what specific injury cases have been, they have also submitted appropriate applications to law enforcement authorities. Perhaps, however, someone is concerned that these law enforcement authorities will find out and that the Capital Investment Management Agency will now, once and for all, find out something else when it is necessary to manage capital investments well within the country. The Social Democrats will not vote on the harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-03-14-SDZ6-Izredna-08.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Frangezh. Any other wishes for a debate? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment to Article 2. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, all of whom voted in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Since the amendment has been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 8. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also the 8th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Goodbye!
