ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I begin the 20th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. The following colleagues apologized for today's session: Jasmina Opec, Saša Kos, Maša Kociper, mag. Melita Zupevc, mag. Borut Ambrožič, Dr. László Göncz, Jožef Kavtičnik and mag. Diane Jedhan. I also invited government representatives to the meeting. Nicely greeted. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 20th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference on Monday 12 November 2012. We will decide on the proposal in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to extend the agenda, so I suggest to the National Assembly that it adopt the agenda as referred to. Please check the functioning of the voting apparatus, because we will vote on the agenda. Ready? We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, all of whom voted in favour. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I'm guessing the agenda is set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THAT'S THE FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE LEAVING AND INVIDENTIAL SURVEILLANCE LAW The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The Group of 45 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate on the bill and today we will hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I am pleased that we have the opportunity to have a general debate on such an important law, or we could call it the reform of pension legislation. A type of reason is why this provision should be adopted and these reasons have been sharpened in the last period. When the government, and even when I was alone in the hearing before this Parliament, talked about the plans of the ministry and my plans, I was talking about assessing the need for a pension reform in 2013. At that time, the forecasts of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development were substantial, substantially different from those of the current one. The 2011 autumn forecast of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development predicted higher economic growth by 4 percentage points in 2012 and 2013. These forecasts have also fallen dramatically, and the government has also decided to take this reform as a priority in 2012. What are the key solutions to this reform in relation to this? It is crucial that we ensure that current and future pensioners receive regular pensions and decent pensions. This cannot be ensured unless we financially stabilise the pension fund. It is very simple to say that a pension box has one large hole, which is filled by the state budget and Kad. It is very simplistic to say that pension spending is about EUR 4 billion, the revenue paid for contributions is for a good EUR 2.5 billion and the difference, EUR 1.4 billion, generally covers the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The issue is also falling into the future because the number of pensioners is increasing and the number of pensioners is decreasing. The key solutions to this pension legislation compared to the failed law at the referendum – now I will stress only the specifics, the new ones – are to define the pension differently. The pension is therefore a benefit based on pension, disability insurance. That's not what it was until now. Another important change, a novelty, is that we want pensions and pension fund expenses that can be linked to the payment of contributions, so we want to move those expenditure of the pension fund, which is to a lesser extent or not related to the contributions paid, very transparently to the budget, more transparent than ever. We also introduce so-called individual personal accounts, or whatever they will be named, in connection with social dialogue, where we want to make it very clear whether or not contributions are being paid for an individual and how much social security contributions are being paid for an individual. It is very important that we align pension conditions for men and women. We also lower pension conditions to a level that was still, in some way, acceptable to social partners or unions at the fall of pension reform. Remember, the basic condition for a decent pension is 40 years of work. We also introduce this, of course, under some minimum condition of 60 years of age. It is very important that we stop this pension reform from falling further, because, as you know, under existing pension legislation, our percentage falls by a percentage point and a half each year, including the valorisation factor, due to poor coordination of pensions or non-coordination of pensions due to times of crisis. We want to stop the further decline in pensions. Dear Members and Members, the existing pension reform represents an important added value for future pensioners and for current pensioners. It is said that after the transitional periods it will indeed be necessary to work a little longer – we have calculated that 2 years – but for about 8% higher pensions. We need higher pensions with some normal working activity of both the Slovenian population and a wider phenomenon in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u3	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, the New Slovenia Embassy Group and in its name mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u4	Dear colleagues, welcome. Pension reform is necessary and is certainly most in the interest of pensioners and those who are just before retirement. Why? As a result, if pension reform is not adopted, pensions will begin to fall very sharply. Today, about 153 employees are employed for 100 pensioners, and these 153 employees are paid for pensions. Why did I use the term pay? Because a lot of pensioners sometimes wonder where is that money we spent 40 years paying for the pension? That money went straight to his pension every month. We do not have such a pension system that our payments to a pension fund are charged and that we would receive a pension from these funds. Our system is such that what we employees pay today goes directly to pensions tomorrow. In order for such a system to work and to be able to provide decent pensions, we need to adapt this system to new demographic trends. The fact is, we live longer. If we want to provide decent pensions, we have two options: to raise the contribution rate or to work longer. An increase in the rate of contribution would be an extremely negative measure for the Slovenian economy and would put an even greater burden on the already burdened economy. That is why we oppose such a resolution of the pension system in Novi Slovenije. The only option we have left is to work longer in some way with a longer life span. This is what we are trying to introduce through this pension reform. It is clear, and people have repeatedly stressed that there are great differences between professions, that someone for 40 years is doing so differently. I think it is our pension reform that has taken these different working circumstances into account. What Svetlikov doesn't. Svetlik's pension reform put everything at 65 years of age. Our pension reform is all about 40 years of work. In this way, we respond in some way to all those circumstances — for example, if someone has started working very soon in his youth, he will be able to retire a little earlier than those who have studied longer and will have to work until he is 65 years old. Once again, if I sum up the significant difference between Svetlik's pension reform and our pension reform. The first key difference is that we are all betting on 40 years of work and that we are removing from this system budget allowances for pensions, because things will be very transparent, so that we know what a pension is and what a budget supplement is. At this point, I must say that sometimes I do not understand the high opposition officials when they say that they have refused Svetlik's pension reform a year ago and more. We're in favour of pension reform, but now yours isn't good. But let us be surprised, we will listen to the views of the groups of Members, and yet I hope that something else will turn around. Many comments, or things, were also made regarding the rate of acceptance of pension reform. We don't have time. We're in a hurry. For the time being, the process of coordination and negotiation is still ongoing and this document, which we have before us, can be changed in some points until the final adoption. Some of the changes that have already been presented, at least orally, in these arrangements and talks, are also those that will introduce a transitional period that will be very gradual and that those who already meet the conditions of retirement under the old legislation do not need to be rushed to retirement at all costs before this pension reform is adopted, as they will also be able to retire under the same conditions later. New Slovenia also had certain proposals to improve this pension reform. We've presented them to the Minister and we believe he will respect them. One of the most important is that larger families or children in larger families should nevertheless be taken into account for these retirement reasons and the reduction of retirement age. Not just the fourth child, but also the fifth, sixth, possibly the seventh and eighth. There are very few families with more than 5,6 children in Slovenia, so taking all these children into account in retirement would not constitute a significant threat to any pension system and we in Nova Slovenija estimate that it is the same. If I conclude, as I said, New Slovenia supports pension reform, we will support it at first reading. However, in the process of negotiation and coordination, together with all other stakeholders, we will strive to improve this pension reform further.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u5	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister, as well as all those who accompany us in front of television screens. "This pension reform is better than the previous one, but only because it is yours, a respected coalition." We have heard this in one of the opening presentations of one of the coalition parliamentary groups today. The undeniable fact is that pension reform is necessary. There is no longer any doubt about this today, nor does the President of the Government, who argued at the end of 2011 that Slovenia can participate in the club's most developed even without pension reform. At the same time, I would like to point out that I really have a problem with rhetoric with which government representatives have been defending or defending pension reform for some time. This seems to be necessary only because of the hole in the pension register, with all the serious warnings left to pensioners that pensions are difficult to survive, even though due to nature itself they should represent adequate social security for a decent life in age. It is inappropriate for older people to present themselves as a burden on the state treasury, just as a burden on the state treasury. With this kind of thinking, man is just an object in the hands of capital, not to say that it is a philosophy of a policy that we find difficult to frame. Once again, we agree to another political game that is imposed on us by elements of neoliberalism. It's a destructive policy. Why, I'll explain later. This is far from the true meaning of the words that we all like to use. These are: quality life in the third life period, intergenerational solidarity and, if you will, humanity. These are all the three elements that should guide the drafting of new pension legislation. Janez Janša began his mandate by saying, "Government measures are not radical." And I think it has radically changed the lives of a number of individuals, families. The President went on to say how we must all make every effort to contribute to the resolution of the financial crisis, except for the weakest. He then threatened the government with economic collapse and a request for financial assistance. In the meantime, he put pressure on the pensioners and, to me, nothing to you, he wiped out 26,000 pensioners overnight. Because some of them fought for freedom, sovereignty and democracy. Even though the solution was constitutionally contentious, it had to be accepted because the pension box should not bear the undue burden of people. I'm cariculating because I want to stress that politics is playing dangerously, too dangerously, with people's lives. Due to the pension reform we had almost a revolution in Slovenia two years ago. While the OECD is already under the mandate of the previous Janša government, 2004-2008, many countries have recommended the launch of procedures for pension reform, including Slovenia, with the very clear support of today's largest coalition party, the reform has fallen. To those who scream today and want to show in any way how the opposition rejects your extremely state- and social solutions – the lack of acceptance of the pension reform in 2010 has created a hole in the treasury, which is estimated to amount to up to EUR 300 million. That's a fact. At that time, the Prime Minister even said that the pension reform, which means a longer stay in the labour market, completely excludes productivity gains, technological developments and progress. That's why pension reform was bad back then. But, look at the fragment, his government has passed almost identical laws. Some estimate that this is the case, I will quote: "The chamber plagiarism has fallen reform, which follows exactly the goal of a longer stay in the labour market." How quickly does a person get caught up in his own trap, right? Will the proposed reform, the pension reform, which, by the way, is not yet in line with the social partners, solve Slovenian problems? According to analysts, at best, it represents a short-term or short-term solution to the reduction in the costs of state treasury, including the so-called deletion of the category of pensioners. Again, we are in judgment of value, what man means to us today. It appears that the pension reform will complete what the ZUJF started. Special laws will lay down the conditions for obtaining and giving rights to deleted pensioners, as I shall appoint them. In other words, their pension becomes, according to the new, a social transfer that is no longer self-explanatory, but depends on the social position of the recipient or beneficiary and each time the will of the policy. You know that politics is capable of cutting down and abolishing individual social transfers with one move. This is a part of which we strongly oppose in Positive Slovenia because it takes up the rights of pensioners by the State and strongly interferes with the dignity of the affected citizens. The pension reform should reflect the real situation, real numbers. Slovenian pensioners have long warned that they are ill. In 2008, I presented to the same Prime Minister the information that I will this time complete with up-to-date numbers. In 2004, the average pension amounted to 64.5% of the salary. In 2007, only 61.3% of the salary was paid. In January 2012, the average pension is only 58.8% of the average net salary. Pensions, realistically, fall and thus retirees, you want or don't want to get caught up in poverty every year. Fresh data from the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance from August this year say that 1 in 5 receives less than 500 euros in pension. A few more than 84 thousand pensioners receive a pension of between 500 and 600 euros. If I withdraw, respected colleagues and colleagues – and this is the information we should be worried about – today, around 200,000 pensioners live below the poverty threshold in Slovenia, representing 40% of the pension population. The fact that Slovenian pensions are low also shows a European comparison. Last year, Slovenian pensioners were 10 percentage points below the average of the European Union and at the bottom of the scale of all Member States of the European Union. In 2010, several older people were below the poverty threshold only in these countries of the European Union, Bulgaria, Cyprus and the United Kingdom. Another worrisome piece of information. Not only is our country below the average of the European Union, but it is also a bad sign that the proportion of older people living below the poverty threshold is growing in us, while the European Union is declining according to Eurostat's data. That is why I say that pension reform should reflect or reflect a broader reality, which represents long-term stability also in the light of projected demographic trends. What is the government's long-term strategy for the resolution of low pensions, poverty among pensioners, is contained in the proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance [[SPIZ-2]] It's impossible to peel. Although the law will partially plague the fall in pensions, it must be mentioned here that the projected entry rate is even lower than that of 2010 when reforms fell, which means that the real pension base will be even lower. I submit that the question of the valorisation factor, which is the element set by the Minister at each coordination, and which has so far reached further into the amount of the pension, has not been resolved. If I address only a few of the concerns that need to be taken into account in the further consideration of this law and which we will absolutely, also in the Positive Slovenia Group in the preparation of the amendments. The transitional periods of tightening the pension conditions for women should be longer. Marriage is unjust to those who have more children and to those who have been educated. Transitional provisions provide for the unfavourable protection of the expected rights of unemployed persons and persons with a recognised disability rate. As has already been said, the valorization factor is questionable. According to some estimates, it should be replaced by a point system, which is finally identified by the Ministry's representatives. Bonuses for working under the conditions met should also apply after the age of 65. The fall of pensions with the proposal will not be slowed down. There is still no adequate period of retirement for those who have begun to work young, i.e. before the age of 18. Disability is also inadequate. Inadequacies remain regarding individual calculations, which may mean an end to solidarity. The bill provides for the establishment of a group of pensioners, which was already the purpose of the Public Finance Balance Act, and for the treatment of their pensions as a social transfer. If you don't mind, another absurdity, because I like to have specific numbers. I think that all Members of Parliament have received an example of what a new pension reform will look like in one part in practice. Mr. Novak, 1952, would have applied for retirement under study years. The conditions for retirement would be met by 1. 3. 2013 At the office, he ends his salary for the unemployed 15. 1. 2013 He would have the right to pay contributions of pension and disability insurance because he is less than one year short of retirement. However, since the government proposal for a new pension law does not provide for the protection of rights for such persons, it no longer has the right to pay contributions from pension and disability insurance because it will not retire until 2017 when it is 65 years old and 40 years old. This proposal is not granted in such a form. I hope that the ministry will continue to listen to those comments that are very well-founded, by trade unions, to the rest of the public concerned, as well as to opposition Members and Members. Pension reform in itself does not constitute a sustainable solution in terms of systemic solutions to problems such as low pensions. We save, as has already been said, in the first place only or only the financial side of the pension fund. Moreover, I hope to say that the pension reform in the form that we have before us today raises doubts about justice. But without righteousness there is no development, and there is no prosperity. Therefore, at this point, let me conclude by saying that we will not object to the adoption of the pension reform or the law at first reading in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, because we are aware that the law can be corrected and corrected further. At this point, however, I am also giving the Minister the initiative to come up with concrete proposals and presentations to opposition Members and Members of Positive Slovenia. We will gladly accept it, and I believe that we will find a number of positive solutions. After all, this is or should be our common goal. Retirement reform is necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u7	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The pension reform, as we have heard many times today and will be, is one of those urgent reform measures that we must take immediately if we are to maintain our sovereignty. The number of pensioners has been increasing much faster since 1990 than the number of insured persons, and today the pension for one pensioner pays only slightly more than one employee and a half. This is a fact, but we must not be too concerned about it, because on the other hand it also expresses some positive signal in our society. In fact, we live longer, we live better and better lives. This is why the gap between income and pension expenditure is not just a problem that causes friction between the younger and the older generation. This is particularly a challenge for all of us, how, in the future, with new solutions, we will restore this balance and transform the intergenerational conflict into intergenerational cooperation. It is true that we can do something to shift the burden between generations, among young people themselves, among the elderly, but we will do nothing if we do not provide new jobs, new jobs. For in our pension system, which is as it is, the matter is set so that if there are no new payments, if there are no more insurers as pensioners, this system does not work. This system will not work in the long term or elsewhere in Europe, except in Slovenia. This system, as a whole, must undergo substantial changes in thinking. The amendments to the pension legislation that are before us today will not enter into force overnight. They will be implemented gradually and their financial impact will be gradually demonstrated. Initially, it will be slightly larger and will grow there until 2016. The Ministry estimates that the pension system will be stable for at least the next 7 years. This is also the time when we can say that with the solutions that this law brings today, we are largely satisfied. They are not ideal, but let us remember – in history, pension systems usually need to be renovated for about 10 years. No pension system has been able to stabilize us for more than 10 years. In 2000, we were working on a pension reform; in 2010, the situation was completely different and nothing helps us today to calculate what pensions will be like in 2026, whether it will be €567 or €859. Let's make realistic projections that will hold and be reliable for at least a few years. When the previous government presented the starting points for pension reform three years ago, they were very large. We expected to get a new, modern, just pension system, but in the end, when the law was passed, that was not the case. We have seen, in particular, a major deterioration in conditions in all areas. On the other hand, we have not witnessed the same assurance that the pension system will be sustainable, that pensions will be stable and that they will continue to grow. This mismatch has also been reflected in negotiations with the social partners. The social partners were so dissatisfied with the solutions that they were forced or eventually launched a referendum. I stress this because it is always wrong for us to see that the Slovenian Democratic Party is the one that launched the referendum. It's not. It is true, however, that she did not agree with certain solutions in that law and also made this clear in the process of adopting the law in Parliament and also proposed her own solutions, which, for the most part, as far as I know, were not adopted. That the matter will be completely inconclusive because I do not believe you believe me, you will probably believe Mr Luksic, who said in an interview: "Minister Ivan Svetlik has dug himself into negotiations against unions like in concrete and Pahor has concretely supported it, but it has gone wrong." These are statements by Dr. Lukšič regarding the pension reform of the previous government. So we lost three years of precious time when we could make some adjustments, but we did not make them, and when we could take advantage of this opportunity and thoroughly rebuild the pension system. Today, marriage could be significantly different, much better than it is. However, the crisis has deepened in all areas over the three years. Today, the situation is significantly worse than it was then and simply at that time, in order to discuss for the next three years which are the best, most appropriate and most effective solutions, we simply do not have. We don't want to admit it or not. This is why the government has decided to take this law, presented by the previous government, as a basis for changing the pension system. However, it has been upgraded with some key, essential changes, and we can say that these changes make this law significantly better than the previous one. The first change, the extension of the retirement age, is in the system as we have in us, as I mentioned earlier, the match without end. You can extend the retirement age to 80 or 85. If you have a number of factors embedded in the system that allow early retirement – that someone can retire before the statutory retirement age in the marriage – you have done nothing about it. This is not unique only to the Slovenian pension system. This is also characteristic of other pension systems sold to us and told how some should remain in employment until the age of 65, even up to 67, etc. However, if we look at statistics on effective retirement age, that is when someone really retires, and Slovenia, at least in men, does not deviate much from the European average, nor from Germany, which we always take as an example. The situation is slightly different in the area of the retirement of women, which is also the reason why matters in this area, in this law, are exacerbated. Just because it is not essential that the number of years in which a person can retire is written in a marriage is more important than how many years someone has paid in a retirement allowance, and this is the shift that this pension law brings. A shift from retirement age to working age. As mentioned above, 40 years have been put in place and it is very clear from the law that the pension is a work right. Pension is not a social benefit and should not be treated as such. Another important change. Today, a large number of expenses are paid from the pension fund, which do not have any basis for the contributions paid, and we have heard this a number of times. Why is that important? It is important because these expenses create some additional pressure on the pension allowance and if you pay attention to how the data is presented, where we mention or mention many times how much the budget has to contribute to the pension fund, you will always be able to track the number of a billion 400 000. No, it's not. Just a billion, but this psychological pressure that it is still necessary to put the budget into a pension fund of 400 thousand, creates very good conditions for you to finally say that the conditions for retirement need to be tightened, conditions must be worsened and pensions reduced. This is wrong and it is not fair to those pensioners who have worked and paid 40 years in the pension system. The former government went to abolish state pensions, at once, with one incision. It turned them into social benefits and pensions, as we said, are not social benefits, pension is a right from work. The problem is that if we can somehow understand why the previous Government has done so, we cannot understand why all the other privileges that still exist in the pension register today have been left exactly where they are intact. This is some kind of solution that's only been made by half. I think that a further step should be taken and the clearance of the pension allowance should be completed in such a way that, in the pension register, the expenditure that is paid in the background will be real. Anything that is not expenditure that has contributions in the background should be managed elsewhere. That doesn't mean anything's off. Nothing stops, and the Ministry won't just make up who they're going to give the rights to. These are not social contributions, these are legal rights. We adopt laws in Parliament and there is no fear here that anyone from this title would be harmed by transferring from one cash register to another. We follow the principle that what does not belong in the pension register should be regulated elsewhere and governed by other laws. A third important novelty and change is the introduction of a single information calculation. This is very important, especially for young generations. If you ask young generations today, no one trusts a pension, a pension, no one expects a pension at all. Ask the 25-year-old what he thinks he'll be getting from his pension fund in 40 years. Why is that? This is probably because his contributions, if he pays them, pour them into a cash register that he has no control over, does not know what is going on there, he hears only about some problems all the time. However, the individual information calculation will bring with it some transparency, the possibility that each moment it will receive information on how much funds have been collected in its account and also on what kind of pension it can expect. This is a completely different approach, it inspires some confidence in the system and inspires confidence that someone will get the expected pension once too. I agree that pensions in Slovenia are extremely low and are not allowed to continue to decline. However, since there is always some misinformation about why pensions are falling, I think it is right to say that pensions are falling because it was a conscious decision of the social partners and the government in 1999, when the pension reform was negotiated, and when a compromise was reached that the coefficient allowing pensions to fall is the same as it is, at the expense of some other solutions that were then in a positive direction for the insured – a longer transitional period, let us say. If we do not accept this law today or if we do not adopt it, the pensions will continue to fall. This coefficient is still installed and will be operational until 2024. With this pension reform, we also stop this fall in pensions. Let me point out, however, that we have already discussed this issue and have also taken some decisions and some solutions. Indeed, during the initial period following the adoption of the pension reform in force today, these pensions fell so quickly that in 2005 we decided to at least partially stop the fall in pensions by interfering with the pension system. At that time, this was very negatively accepted as a disassembly of the pension system. But in fact, the government of Janez Janša immediately at the beginning of its mandate took this action, which, the only one in history, stopped the fall of pensions. People are usually held back to change because we do not know if we can promise positive or negative consequences. True, because of this pension reform, we will have to work longer. However, this transition will be gradual and divided into several years. Some who are not paying contributions at all today or some who are paying very, very low contributions will have to pay more. But as a result, our pensioner will be stable for the next few years and the pensioners will no longer have to ask themselves whether or not they will have pensions tomorrow or the next year and what they will have because they will have pensions and pensions will be stable. There will be an additional incentive for saving, especially among young people, which I personally think is of paramount importance, because I think that this part of the pension fund, which relates to expenditure, is a problem. An even greater problem is this part, which relates to payments to the pension system, to young people entering the labour market too late and to low payments. Most of the solutions are already known, some of them here today, before us. Some are still under discussion between the social partners and the government, and I believe that we will also propose a number of solutions in the adoption process in the National Assembly. I don't think it's too much of a fear that some of the open issues that have been raised here too will be resolved. I'm sure they will. I also appreciate that these open questions for some pension law, for a pension reform that is so extensive, are extremely few. The need for this pension reform to enter into force on 1 January next year is extremely high and we will support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u9	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u10	Dear Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The pension reform, one of the most important structural reforms prepared by the former Borut Pahor government, was adopted by the National Assembly after more than one year of discussion, coordination with the social partners, with an absolute majority. Regrettably, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act of June 2011 was rejected, despite ensuring the long-term sustainability of public finances, preventing or even slightly increasing pensions – with people working on average a year or two more – and ensuring a fair distribution of burdens between different age groups and generations. We have warned you of the consequences of the fall of pension reform. They have been reflected in more costly borrowings and, with a tightening economic situation, they have also encouraged the adoption of the current sharp austerity measures, which we all oppose in some way. A lot of people today may have justly had a headache to make a decision at that time, as it was for the reform to be rejected. At the time of the adoption of the pension reform in the National Assembly, the visible representatives of the current ruling coalition party, SDS, estimated that we did not need a new pension law, at least until 2015, and that the rejection of the pension law at the referendum was an opportunity to find better solutions. This claim was reiterated earlier this year by the candidate for President of the current government, Janez Janša. In his opening speech, he expressed the view that improvements to the pension system would not be necessary before 2015. At the end of the summer, the government turned the board upside down and the implementation of the pension reform suddenly became extremely urgent. Bang! Ironically, you're welcome. Ironically, even more so because a thorough review of the articles of the proposal for a new pension law shows that this is largely a copy of the rejected law referendum. More than 95% of the articles are of this type, but with some corrections. When a person carefully analyzes things, he realizes that reform is essentially a form, or that we are talking about changes to a pension law. One of the main features of the SDS party, why not reject the pension reform in the previous mandate, was that it was inconsistent with the social partners. However, the proposal of the law before us, in all the most important parameters, is not coordinated with the social partners, although a compromise solution agreement is to be concluded. This lack of coordination was clearly highlighted by the social partners. In doing so, we have not been familiar with the compromise solutions that we are facing today with the first consideration of the new law. Thus, we do not know what substantive solutions we will discuss — those recorded before us or those already in line with the social partners that we do not yet know, unless we have closely monitored the press that reported to us what was going on. What does this tell us about how you perceive the role of Parliament and these Members? It's probably that we're basically a voting machine, isn't it? For a moment, I will not go into all the details of the changes, but I would point to two key ones. Firstly, the condition for reaching an old retirement pension is intended to meet at the same time two criteria – working age, 40 years, and the age reached at least 60 years. The extension of the pension age of our pensioners, which is expected to contribute significantly to the sustainability of the pension allowance, will be achieved to a large extent by equating the pension age for both sexes. Let me point out that men have already retired at an average of 37.6 years of working time, but that leave, which was under 40 years of age, went mainly to the children's time bonus. Just abolishing this time bonus will make their pension conditions a little worse. But it's a completely different picture in women. Remember – 40, 38 was the password that broke the pension reform. Today, when an equal period of pension is required for both sexes, we can show by the figures that the main burden of this pension reform will be borne by women, who will be extended by 2 years in six years, and additionally during the ongoing pension reform, the Rope reform, as we call it, or the PPIZ-1. Within 6 years, the transition will be so rapid that it will extend their working time by 2.8 years. Fair enough, there is nothing, very fair distribution of the burden of reform. Another time. Retirement is expected to become almost total remuneration, depending on the contributions to the pension fund. The period, which will be the basis for the calculation of the pension, was somehow harmonised to 24 years for which contributions are paid. So if we want to be consistent, then it should be the basis for all 40 years of payment to the pension fund, not just 24 years. Do you still remember how individual categories can be manipulated by increasing or reducing their contributions?Oh, my God! Above all, I think of those who can choose this pension base on their own. In the course of one post, pensions will be removed from the pension allowance under special conditions, which will be redefined in specific laws. This means that cleaning will be carried out by 44 groups, 170 thousand pensioners. This means one third of all Slovenian pensioners. Given that these pensions have already been financed by the state budget, the issue is what should be gained by the government from one pocket to another. Certainly more administrations by ministries. On the other hand, we wonder what the hidden agenda of this measure is. Does this not mean the realization of the hidden purpose of the so-called 408, that these categories will be re-applied to rights and their valorisation, which will not be equal to the valorisation of pensions? About how it looks, we were able to look at Article 431 of the ZUJF. The final effect will undoubtedly be in reducing pensions, and you know what else? When these expenditure is transferred from the pension expenditure item to the social transfer expenditure, the pension expenditure will appear to be statistically reduced. Do you think they'll fall for us abroad? That reminds us very much of Greek speculation. On the basis of the calculations presented, which do not yet contain a calculation of the effects of the trade union compromises reached, we are asked how long these changes or this reform will ensure the sustainability of the pension fund. If everything had been done the way the government had imagined it, it would have been seven years. How much do you get for your vacation? Do we accept pension reform for five years for one medium term? That's the first question. The second question is how much of the pension is guaranteed by this reform. The fact is that both the dose percentage and the valorisation coefficient are lower than was planned in our reform. Some trade unions have already made it clear that these grounds will reduce pensions and that they will be significantly lower in the first period than they are now. True, PIZ-1 is planning to further reduce pensions, but what we have to pursue is, to what extent will we stop this reform from falling pensions or that this right will be equally measured for all categories of beneficiaries. Unlike you, dear colleagues, the Social Democrats have repeatedly stressed the importance of pension reform as a fundamental reform to be carried out by this society, in particular because of demographic changes, due to declining birth rates, because of the happy data that, as in developed countries, we have to extend our life expectancy. If we are to ensure, on the one hand, the sustainability of the pension allowance and, on the other hand, the appropriate amount of pensions, then we need to do something and divide the burdens fairly between the individual categories and also the generations. We are aware that without change, the pension system will be compromised and the younger generations will have disproportionate consequences, which are increasingly insurmountable in the pension system. However, in the course of the consideration of the proposal for a pension law in the National Assembly, hoping to be heard, we will try to complement the current bill and achieve a more balanced solution, in particular on key open issues. Maybe that'll be the end of it. Perhaps it would be good, colleagues and colleagues from SDS, to look at the statistics, how many of your amendments and which of your amendments have been taken into account. Do you know what the majority of the amendments were about? The fact that time ratings for studies should also be taken into account. This has all of a sudden disappeared from your marriage and if you have so many comments at the expense of state pensions - the state pension has included our marriage - you have free hands, include them back in the basic law. No one will stop you here, especially us, the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u11	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mag. Truda Cinderella.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u12	Dear President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, we will support the proposal for a new law on pension and disability insurance, as it brings a number of significant changes compared to the regulation so far. If we look at the history of the regulation of the pension system in Slovenia, it shows that in the past, within the pension system, rights that did not have a basis in the contributions paid were granted, meaning a derogation from the basic principle of the pension system in our country, the principles of insurance. However, in most cases these rights were not in the function of ensuring solidarity between insurers, but rather in the function of ensuring rights for individual social groups. The bill seeks to refund the pension based on the contributions paid, the status of the right earned by the previous work and the contributions paid to the pension fund. However, it can only be established in a way that clears all rights that do not have a basis in the contributions paid, thus making the pension system more transparent and fairer. The pension register will be more transparent, affecting greater motivation for insurance and contribution payments, and will allow more effective supervision by the competent institutions of the use of the resources allocated to the state budget for the payment of specific rights. Statistics show that life's good is increasing and that the working time has not been adjusted, so the pension fund becomes financially unsustainable and is only a matter of time before the money remains there. For this reason, we must urgently adapt to the rapid ageing of the population. If we resist change, we will not be able to avoid financial failure, which means that we will all live worse. It is very important to note that the relationship between insurers and pensioners has deteriorated significantly from 2005 to last year. In 2005, 1.67 workers worked for one pensioner, and last year this ratio fell to 1.53, which means that the ratio is unfavourable and that the pensioners are increasing. The proposed pension reform aims to ensure the stability of the pension fund at least in the medium term and thus ensure that the pensionable pensions are provided, as if the PPIZ-1 remained in force, pensions would continue to fall. It is therefore important to prevent and halt the further decline in pensions and to stop at the current rate of 78%. The transparency of the pension system is further strengthened by the introduction of informational personal accounts to be maintained by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia for each insured person involved in compulsory insurance. It is also a good solution that the institution of each insured person, after the age of 58, will have to inform the official body of compliance with the conditions or the state of his pension. The importance of the new system is also the gradual introduction of changes and a longer transitional period, which means the transition to a more sustainable system of compulsory insurance based on an intergenerational contract. In view of the assessment of the state of the pension system in terms of the impact on the sustainability of public finances at the macro level, recent data also show the urgency of pension reform, which takes into account the negative effects of the financial economic crisis. The law is based on the transparency and understanding of the system and on the introduction of incentives for longer stay in employment even after the minimum and full conditions for retirement are met. Thus, the new system will, on the one hand, be based on a multi-pillar system that will provide income from multiple sources and will provide a greater link between contributions paid and pensions. On the other hand, it will provide decent pensions to all those who, due to justified circumstances, have not saved enough money. The basic objective of the draft law in the area of supplementary insurance is that an additional old-age pension must cover the loss of the income of an individual from compulsory pension insurance, thus allowing for the sustainability of the pension system and a decent pension. A pension system will be established, based on insurance and will be fair, transparent and therefore financially effective. It is also very important that the proposal is based on the principles of reciprocity and preserves intergenerational solidarity. With the proposed amendment of the law, we will be able to stop the annual decline in the ratio between average wages and pensions. During the crisis in which we are, it is more difficult to demand and expect, as additional resources would be needed to do so, contrary to ensuring the objective of financial sustainability. In doing so, it is very important to slow down the growth in the number of new pensioners on the one hand and to increase the number of insured persons soon. Members of the National Gazette are aware that the proposed amendment of the law brings appropriate solutions, but the effects of the pension reform will be much greater if accompanied by economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u13	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We gave the address to my contribution to the urgent adoption of the PIZ-2 as soon as possible. Dear colleagues, colleagues, all present! Slovenia is at the crucial point of the decision. We decide whether we will act or continue to wait and continue to drift into ruin and rely on and wait for foreign intervention. The proposal for a new law on pension and disability insurance is one of the important laws that can move Slovenia forward, a step closer to getting out of the crisis, not only because of the sustainability of the pension fund, but also because of the signal at home and in the world that we are able to adopt appropriate structural reforms. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the proposal for a new pension law, because we know that we are already seriously delaying this legislation, which confirms the many negative consequences that are becoming increasingly apparent now. The pension reform is a project of the widest interest that will affect all generations of Slovenes and Slovenes, and we have always advocated in the SLS Group how important it is for the general public to be involved in the creation of the final law on pension and disability insurance. Nevertheless, we expect all of us to take a constructive approach to the treatment and not reject the adoption of the law, perhaps simply out of opposition to the government coalition. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we view pension reform as one of the most important projects of this mandate, as further delay in the coming years would undoubtedly cause even more problems and complications. We reiterate, even today, that it is essential to act if we are to avoid the situation where pensions need to be reduced. With each year of postponing the reform, conditions are also deteriorating for future pensioners, as they are deteriorating and lowering their pension rates. As a result of the delay, the proposed law provides for a dose percentage of 78%, before 80%, of the valorisation factor 0.732, before 0.755. In the SLS Group, we believe that we should stop the further abuse of the institution of the valorisation factor, which unfairly reduces pensions for younger generations and introduces another point system, such as indexing on the average salary, which would more fairly determine pensions for future pensioners. The necessary changes are mainly affected by the demographic picture and ageing of the population and by longer lives and thus longer periods of retirement. I will borrow a quote from a prominent expert, Dr Matjaž Gams, focusing on this subject, who said: "Studies show that pension reform should have been introduced 5 to 10 years ago. We stand on this, and there are experts, and I have personally written about it in various media. Then why didn't there be a faster reaction, why did we have to wait for it to get so complicated?" The indisputable fact is that the sustainability of the pension allowance is resolved on short notice only by the rapid adoption of a reform which must raise the retirement age for at least 3 years. In the long run, in the second phase of pension reform, it is necessary to design or upgrade the system in order to provide safe and higher pensions in the long term. We must also act in the field of more active demographic policy and consequently positive family policies. With positive measures and incentives for young people to opt for more children, it is only in the long term that this solves the social treasury and, according to research, the existence of the Slovenian people in general. We therefore support the maintenance of solidarity as a basic principle of the pension law, and as a basis for pensions, we define an insurance or pension period, i.e. a period of paid contributions. The SLS Group also supported pension reform in the past period. That seems important to me. In the parliamentary group, we voted in favour of the pension reform already in the previous mandate, when it was high time to ease the current critical state of public finances. Most of our constructive proposals, the truth to the heart, and comments have already been taken into account by the previous Minister or Government, and are also included in the current proposal for a law that has taken on key solutions following the previous proposal of the ZPIZ-2. Let us mention just a few suggestions at the time: a bonus to mothers when they retire for each child, a period of compulsory military service. Furthermore, the full old pension is during a transitional period at the age of 60, 40 years, and 60 years of age. Our proposal was 38. It is now 40 years of age, without deductions during the transitional period. The more gradual deterioration of pension conditions during the transitional period, the pension period is recognised to workers to whom companies have not paid contributions to pension and disability insurance. All benefits, overtime, Christmas, prizes, paid contributions are included in the pension base. The insured shall be provided with electronic access to their retirement, pension and pension data and, at the age of 58, be notified of the fulfilment of the conditions for retirement and early retirement and the indicative calculation of the pension. In the previous proposal, we have also succeeded in reducing the fund management commission from 1.5% to 1%. We have even achieved that, with the amendment to the previous ZPIZ, state pensions have returned to the recipients if the law had not fallen on the referendum, state pensions would continue to be paid, at least to all those beneficiaries who had this right under Article 59 ZPIZ-1, as with other pensioners, and that right has been taken away from them before the adoption of the social law. There were about 1,500 beneficiaries at the time and their pension was only, I think, EUR 189. But she was only, and many widows meant as much. Third set, proposals by the SLS Group to complement the current PIC. We have also worked constructively with Members of the SLS in the drafting of the proposal of the current SPIZ-2 and have made some substantial substantive proposals and some technical proposals, which we expect to be taken into account in the coordination for the new proposal at the second reading. Firstly, the regulation of the expected rights for the currently unemployed and workers just before retirement without malus during the transitional period. Secondly, the reduction in the retirement age of mothers or parents who applied for parental compensation by the number of children is progressive, as proposed in the last draft, which is proposed for 4 children, i.e. a reduction in age from 60 to 57 years at the age of retirement. Thirdly, we believe that there is still a need to discuss and coordinate this, and that mothers, when they retire, should be recognised for the period already reached for the time when they stayed home for the sake of the children. Fourthly, among the beneficiaries of the added age, also consider patients and survivors of cancer up to the age of 15, in the event of health consequences. Fifthly, the clearance of the pension allowance should be fair and equal for all, so it is necessary to check the allowances which are unduly included in widow's and family's pensions and to correct certain injustices due to changes in the ZUJF. Specify whether to re-renovate the register of professions or additional or professional insurance and align it with the actual professions that still need this additional professional insurance. Assemble this list with employers as well. Week, take into account the comments of the family initiative on the deletion of the provision on the termination of the right to a family pension due to the conclusion of a marriage, since the provision thus laid down is discriminatory to spouses compared to those living in the non-marital community. This is certainly a matter that needs to be handled honestly. The eighth – and another more technical proposal for decommissioning the economy – in the transmission of data on salaries and insurance bases should be the reporting obligation of the Durs. We suggest that we go straight to the law. Ninthly, we support the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce that masters of home and art can continue to work even after retirement if they do not have an heir, because we have even proposed that this should be possible for all independent entrepreneurs.Tenfold, we also agree that the distinction between individual rights should be examined and corrected according to the status, especially in the case of disabled persons and after a professional rehabilitation allowance for both self-employed and farmers. Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will continue to participate constructively in the formulation of the final text of the ZPIZ-2 and we therefore support it because we believe it is appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u15	On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! We have a re-reform of the pension system ahead of us. I must point out immediately in the introduction that last year's so-called DeSUS Svetlik reform did not completely reject. Coordination of pensions was key to rejecting the proposed reform at the plenary session of the National Assembly. The uncoherence of this part of the reform is still present between the party DeSUS and the current coalition partners. The pension cuts in the form of non-conformity of pensions will be permanently known to pensioners. They will never get what they were deprived of in 2010, 2011 and this year. You all know that in recent years, with intervention laws, pensions due to the economic crisis have not been harmonised in the manner laid down in the basic law. This is for the ratio as far as wages have been raised, despite the fact that we already have a precise legal obligation from 2010 to make a €50 million provision for the coordination of pensions from the capital company ZPIZu. It is mandatory to ensure that pensions are coordinated at least at the level of the observed increase in prices of living needs. This latter has been entered into a coalition contract, it has also been entered into the original texts of this bill, and in the officially submitted version we are very much missing this provision. The aim of the reform is to ensure the stability and sustainability of the pension fund in order to allow both current and future pensioners to receive regular pensions that are also worthy. Today's pension system must be changed mainly because of the unfavourable demographic situation, the rise in expenditure on pensions and the increase in the burden of the budget and early retirement. We do not take the DeSUS reform of the pension system as a solution to the economic crisis. We see it as a solution to the problems of the pension fund, which is more necessary every year to supplement the budget. In the past year, the budget has allocated almost a billion and a half euros to pensions. A third of these funds are intended for pensions that are not entirely based on contributions paid, and we welcome the proposed clearance of the pension allowance in our Group, and we see the problem in the implementation itself. We believe that, due to the excessive cost of establishing a new system for the payment of these pensions, it could remain at the STIZ and that the funds for payment should be provided by the regional ministries. In doing so, it is necessary to keep two balance sheets, one for old-age pensions and one for so-called extraordinary, special pensions. In the DeSUS Group, we also see a link with the pension cash crisis in reducing the contribution rate for pension and disability protection. Slovenia is the only example between European countries where employers pay a lower contribution to the pension fund than the worker has. From a total contribution rate of 31 %, the rate of contribution declined gradually from 1996 to 24,35 % today, but only for employers, so today it is 15.5 to 8.85 %. Such a measure should only apply temporarily until the levy on wages is lifted. The obligation to pay the wage tax expired on 1 January 2009, and the reduced rate of contribution for employers is still valid. In the current economic situation in which Slovenia is located, this would be very difficult to reconcile now, but if the savings from the reduction of the contribution would really increase the number of jobs in the economy, this would be acceptable for us too. Regrettably, however, funds were released to repay management loans for Taiwanese acquisitions and other frauds. Therefore, the excuses for falling competitiveness in the economy and the crisis are unfounded for us. In all these years, the pension register has been reduced by billions of euros from this title. At the level of only last year, for example, some 800 million euros are missing. This should also be included among the causes of the pension crisis and the cash register. Members and Members of the DeSUS are of the uniform opinion that coming for a longer active period of work is necessary because this is already dictated by the current demographic situation and also by projections for the future. Population in Slovenia is ageing, which also appears in an increasing number of pensioners and during the longer period of receiving pensions. In 1990, people aged 65 or over represented 10.6% of the population of Slovenia; in 2010 this percentage was 16.5%. Life expectancy in Slovenia has increased over the last 20 years, in men for 7 years and a month, in women for 5 years and 5 months. Today, women can retire fully at the age of 57 and 4 months, at the age of 37 and 9 months of retirement, and men at the age of 58 and 40 years of retirement. On average, however, Slovenes or Slovenes have been working for only 35 years. In Slovenia there are about 590 thousand pensioners, less than half of whom are 215 thousand, old pensioners, whose pension is equal to or lower than 600 euros, which somehow corresponds to the poverty threshold. In 2011, the average age pension was 73.2% compared to the net salary and in 2011 it was only 66.3%. In 2001, the average pension of all pensioners amounted to 66.3% of net salary and in 2011 only 58.6%. Thus, in 2011 one old pensioner would have a monthly pension deficit of up to EUR 125 and one of all pensioners would have a good EUR 100. Pensioners and people must be provided with sound and dignified social security when they leave for retirement. This must be based on the fact that the pension is not a social transfer, but on the economic right of the previous work and the contributions paid. I reiterate that regular annual coordination of pensions needs to be regulated or re-established. Pensions must be adapted to the general economic situation of employees and to the rising prices of living needs. The Coalition Treaty provides for the coordination of pensions twice a year and with a formula corresponding to wage tracking of 60% and the monitoring of the increase in living costs of 40%. It also provides for coordination from 2013 onwards, this is from next year. Even now, the fact that this reform will be short-term is known, with immediate positive effects. But we also know that if we do not accept this reform, the next attempt will be significantly harder. I believe that in a few years' time the economic situation will be more favourable, which means an increase in the number of employees and thus a greater inflow to the pension fund. The proposed reform of the pension system at the initial stage of the DeSUS hearing will not be rejected. But we're expecting some adjustments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u17	Thank you. We are done with the presentation of the views of the Group and are moving on to the debate of Members and Members. He's got the word "magic" first. Alenka Bratušek, for her Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u18	Your Honor! I am fully aware that pension reform is necessary. She was also an emergency last year. Mr Vizjak, Mr Virant, Mrs Tomc, you easily convinced the entire Slovenian nation last year that this pension reform is not necessary. "The pension reform is not necessary there until 2015." These are the words of Prime Minister Ivan Janez Janša, his words spoken on 28 January 2012. Is it not the truth, is it the deception of people, or is it just the ignorance of the situation that Slovenia is in? I looked again today at the calendar, if we haven't already passed out in 2015 and I've slept for a year, but I found that we are still in 2012 and today, despite the big words and promises of the Prime Minister, we are talking about an important pension reform. Since 2009, the European Commission has seriously warned us that pension reform is key to Slovenia. Six months ago, you cried out that we didn't have to and that we still had time. These are not words, these are written in the European Commission documents. Why did you change your mind from February to today? Please, Minister, tell us, what was the reason why your pension issue became number one? Is this why Europe's pressure, the pressure on financial markets, or did you simply realize that last year's fall in pension reform was great, not to say a huge mistake? How will you convince people today that this pension reform is better and even more necessary than it was last year, that Slovenia really needs it? I suppose you will understand this year's request for a referendum – as you did last year, Mr Minister – if this pension reform is not in line with the unions, because this was a key reason for you to vote against, not just you, but the entire SDS Group. I don't know what it should be or what is different today to convince us all that we will support this pension reform, even though it may not be coordinated with the social partners. "Four against" was your big slogan. One against it was aimed at pension reform, and one against the Pahor government, which did not have the support of the people. Are you aware that this government of yours does not have the support of these same people today? We haven't changed people yet. Look what you're doing with the referendum demands today. If you fail to comply with the unions, with people, you simply lose signatures. Unheard of for the rule of law, for democracy. But what about you? Nothing, each of the responsible finds his own cause and the matter is over for you. You're inviting us to come together and destroy this country together. You don't hear our calls, you don't hear our suggestions, you don't hear professional criticism, you don't hear anything. All you can say is, "Let's get together." But you understand it a little differently. To step together means that everyone takes a few steps, and you should make every effort on one side and you should stand where you are. It just doesn't work that way. Experts say the difference between Svetlik and yours, Mr Visjak, is a 5 % reform. That's not what I said. That's what a few people said. If that is the case, it was irresponsible and, above all, it was a pleasure to lose a year and a half because of your short-term political interests. You have created many problems, problems, and, above all, huge additional costs. You can look at this in the budget on the interest item. Also, your last debt, which you are very proud of, at an interest rate of almost 6%, shows this. When interest starts to rise, and you can look at it, and there are documents about it, they're not empty words. Mr Minister, please tell us clearly and clearly what are the key differences between your and Svetlik's reform and why you chose women or why women have to bear the greater burden of this reform. You mentioned individual accounts earlier. Until recently, we've only talked about informative individual accounts. This is now one step in the direction that was already foretold last year. And also on this cleansing of the pension register, I will say, if you really do not intend to reduce these rights, which you point out all the time, then this cleansing does not have to be so very proud, because there is already a clear separation in the budget today, what the current obligation to STIZ is and what the additional obligation to STIZ is. This additional – this means that the budget gives what is missing from the pension fund – is for one billion. We already know how much is running out and how much the budget is required for those who did not earn their pension with work, but with something else. Because he just doesn't give it to anyone. The second question, which I have already asked the president, I also asked you on the committee, and you asked me to address Minister Šuštersič. You won't believe it when I tried with Minister Sušteršič, he told me to turn back on you and the circle was concluded, and the answer was nowhere. What was that all about? My assessment is that all three, given the importance and the amount of money, should launch this, not negotiate who will answer this question. Where will 150 million euros be saved next year due to pension reform? All three of you know that's not true, but since you've included this in the budget, you have to do it again now. That is not true, Europe has also told you, which does not believe that the budget deficit or deficit of the state sector will be a little wider than the budget in the next year, less than 3%. Europe has announced 3.9% for next year. I hope you know that they will not only be satisfied with the numbers and will be silent, but will ask further questions, and this confusion will also bring about a specific financial penalty in the coming year. Because we're deceiving because we don't give the right information. If you told them that we will save 150 million euros in pension reform next year, it is clear to me why they estimate a deficit of 3.9%. I'm asking for a precise answer by category. But I will tell you now that if you answer me that this is a calculation of the model that exists for this, it is not true, because the model works roughly like this – I think that in last year's year it worked this way and the essential differences I think it is not – to calculate the "costs of pensions" according to today's system and the costs of the new system. Minister, you know very well that according to the new system, many who are retired today would not be retired. Therefore, the difference could be 150 million euros. But I do hope that those who are retired today who do not meet the conditions of your new proposal will not be driven out of the pension box. That's why this number can't hold. Third thing. How long will this pension reform last, or how long will our pension system last if we accept this reform? I'll give you the answer from your files. The implementation of PPIZ-2 in the proposed form would ensure the financial sustainability of the pension system by 2020. That means seven years. Budget Memorandum 2013-2014, page 42 of 48. Do you know how sustainable that Svetlik pension reform was? Twice as many, Mr. Visac, twice as many! Five years from now, the National Assembly will re-engage in pension reform. It wasn't forever, either, but at least at some mid-term, it was sustainable, unlike yours, which isn't. You wrote this yourself, and I have them with me, and we can make sure we don't argue over words. So why do you think your reform is better than Svetlikova? Why didn't you and your client support the reform last year? Why, Your Honor? Because you and your client are never about the state and the citizens, but always and exclusively about the authority.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u19	The word is given by Minister Vizjak, followed by Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I find it difficult to be polite to attack such a person, who was a high financial representative, even in the government of Janez Janša. In fact, she was the Director of the Directorate for Budget and was probably responsible for the situations that she is now presenting as the funeral and funeral of this country. That we were only in power at the time, then it was part of this scenario. That's hard. That's hard to listen to. Your Honor! The pension reform that fell at the referendum fell because it was bad. Not because we opposed her in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The Slovenian Democratic Party did not even provoke this referendum, but the unions did. Even if the Slovenian Democratic Party supported this reform, this reform would have fallen because it was bad. This was demonstrated by the 75% rejection of these proposals. Why was she bad? Because she did not deal with those fundamental dilemmas that the unions had warned about. One of the most important things is that 40 years of work in this country is enough for a full pension. This is the fundamental difference between our and then the rejected, failed pension reform. We say 40 years is enough for a full pension. On the basis of this fact and others, we are moving on the pension system as a system based on the contributions paid. For this reason, we are also expanding the payment of contributions to each work, including work under a business contract, the copyright contract and other forms of legal relations that have the nature of the work. I believe that this is very important and that it can co-form and contribute to stability and long-term, including ultimately pension systems. So, once again, we are not, and I have never personally claimed that pension reform is not necessary, even though it is difficult to imagine what this term is "necessary". That is why I highlighted at the hearing for the Minister of Labour when we intend to tackle this reform. The answer to the second question is why we rushed the matter. Because of the economic recovery forecasts in Slovenia, which still have a bearing on the income side of the pension fund – on the basis of the contributions paid – they showed a completely different picture for 2012 and for 2013. The official forecasts of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, the autumn forecasts, for 2012 showed 4 percentage points lower economic growth and 4 percentage points lower economic growth for 2013 as well. As a result, in the spring, a few months after the takeover of power, as well as the forecasts of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, we decided to give this reform a higher priority. Those are the basic reasons. I think they're convincing. The situation in this country as a legacy of the past government – so we also had extraordinary elections – was significantly worse, significantly worse than the forecasts of the official institutions in autumn. This sad picture was confirmed in the spring with spring forecasts and was further strengthened by autumn forecasts this year. This is, respected, a fundamental reason and I will no longer answer, because it seems really unnecessary to me, because this is the second time I have explained why we have changed the timetable, why we have rushed through this important legislation or reform. With regard to the stability of the implementation, or the time for which it is to be seized. Indeed, we base our financial calculations on the model that was made for this and respected, tell me which calculations you have better, more convincing than this model. A lot of money was spent on this model, even when you were taking care of the budget. Please tell me why you don't believe him now if he was created for this purpose. This model is the result of these savings, which I will now also specify. Approximately €90 million in savings is due to the late retirement due to the changed conditions of retirement. These 90 million are made up of two structures. The first is that, due to the suspension of the conditions of retirement of fewer pensioners and less pension expenditure from the pension fund and, which the model is difficult to capture or not to capture, it will pay additional contributions to these same people. These people will pay for their contributions if they don't retire. In total, this is our estimate of €90 million. An additional €10 million in savings is for the dissemination of the basis for the payment of contributions. In fact, on the principle that virtually every work is counted, from now on work will also be paid under business contracts for pension and disability insurance, as well as for copyright and all other contractual relationships that have some basis in work. The third, approximately the same amount, EUR 10 million, is due to the overwinding of professional insurance. Only those – i.e., professional insurance is paid by the State, as the employer – who are actually working in such jobs where compulsory supplementary pension insurance is to be paid. If I make it very simple, for example, in some operation at the Ministry of the Interior or the Police it is certainly in place. But the question is, where does this criterion and the operational boundary go? Are these also those in the offices and to what extent? It is similar in the military, similar to any other service. There's a lot of that in this country. The overflight of this system, which is part of this reform, will bring about €10 million per year. Less expenditure on the budget. The fifth set, which weighs about EUR 50 million, is a different way of coordinating or non-coordination pensions, as envisaged. Yes, this is an integral part of this proposal. Your Honor! When we are talking about a period of 7 years, calculations show that at least by this time the proposed solution is effective and stabilises the revenues from the visa visa of the current solution. That doesn't mean it won't be after that. As has already been said in this House, this depends very much on what economic recovery will be in this country, how much in 5.7 years we will have contributors to the pension fund. If we have a decline in the economic situation as before – although I am sure not – then no pension reform will stabilise the pension system in this country. If we continue to fall in the number of contributors in the pension visa number of recipients, no pension reform will help us because we cannot tighten the pension conditions. To this end, there are measures accompanying this pension reform, which you have already decided in this House and will continue to do so. These are measures for economic recovery, for the rehabilitation of the banking system, for better asset management – very important complementary measures to this pension reform, and it is no coincidence that they are adopted and presented in a package. Labour legislation as well. So, ladies and gentlemen, we see a further recovery and stabilisation of the pension system also in the economic recovery, in new jobs. This seems extremely important to me to stress and underline. Respectfully, this cannot be measured and we cannot measure how much more jobs we will have in 7 years, in 2020. However, we believe and know that it will be very much dependent on the effects of the measures and on economic recovery, how fast and how strong it will be to be re-cut into the pension system. You're saying we've lost a year and a half, but you're referring to me here or the current coalition as the one who rejected this marriage and caused this marriage to fall. You're forgetting who rejected this law. Those in whose voice you swear and encourage the referendum. If this opposition in this House refused and had enough votes, then this would be the case, they would say that the opposition has rejected the law and is taking responsibility for failing to enforce the law. Now you are imposing this responsibility on the opposition at the time, and this has been rejected by the people at the referendum. Who rejected the 2010 pension reform? The opposition or the people at the referendum? Why did they reject her? Because she was ill or because the opposition opposed her? Here I would ask you, indeed, for a little more correctness. One more thing, Your Honor. You said we didn't hear your calls and your suggestions. I have documented that, as Social Democrats, we have invited you to participate in the drafting of this law and we have addressed letters to you that we are available to you for all the explanations, suggestions, for discussions on the proposed solutions. You haven't answered that question once before you've accepted these initiatives. I have e-mails here. I can give them to you later. Positive Slovenia and Social Democrats. Both of you. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, yes, look, I have an email here with which I can document this and I would be very happy if you could see for yourself in your cabinets, because this call was the result of a meeting held by the presidents of the parliamentary parties. We have already sent you material in mid-October and have also informed you on the basis of this meeting that we are ready to respond and to discuss proposals with you. Let's see if that's true. That is true, and you have not addressed me, nor the cabinet of the President of the Government, from then on, and you are now speaking here in Parliament, if we are prepared to talk to you. We've expressed this a bad month ago, and there was nothing on your side. So, please, with these marks a little more carefully. Respected! I have already explained in the introduction, and also from the performance of other parliamentary groups, all the differences between the pension reform that was rejected in the referendum and the pension that we are proposing have been very clearly highlighted. Indeed, it was also an agreement with the unions that, as a basis for negotiations, we took a rejected pension reform as a basis for the referendum, and we also agreed that we would harmonise those things that the previous Government has failed to harmonise. That was the deal. Since this pension law has about 450 articles, and because you have not agreed on 10 things related to several articles, it would be absurd to open things that have already been closed, so we have not reopened them, because if we reopened them, then we would have accumulated a lot of problems in the negotiation process. That is why we have found solutions to those important questions that I have raised in the first place. Once again, the first thing is to put 40 years of unremunerated retirement at the forefront as the basis for earning a retirement pension. The other thing is the definition of a pension which relates to paid contributions, etc. If you want, I can do it five more times. I would be very happy if you read this in the paper, because very tabled are all the differences that have now been resolved differently and are otherwise negotiated, as was the case in the fall of PIZ-2. One more thing. Indeed, negotiations with the social partners on final solutions are still under way. Negotiations are relatively tiring and take time. You have all made it very clear here that you are aware of the necessity of pension reform, so we have also merged the procedures and procedures in Parliament following a regular procedure and are taking place in parallel, and, as I recall, the pension reform in 2000 was the same. Even in 2000, the pension reform, which was eventually harmonised, was not harmonised before the parliamentary procedure, but during it. The pension reform was also harmonised within the parliamentary procedures, not to mention the 2010 pension reform, which was not harmonised at all. We already have quite a few practices in this same way of adopting regulations, similar rules, very, very different governments, two, left and present. That's it. I hope I answered your questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u21	Replica, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. And I hope that this pension reform is yours, that it is not the pension reform of the officials who have prepared it for you, because, according to you, when you accuse me, someone else should be sitting there and not the minister who is responsible for it. If you are, if you're not, tell me you're not! Ministers, President of the Government, the officials of this government are responsible for the policy implemented by the government and not by officials, although it is a practice that you want everything, including these lost signatures, to call on officials, but this is your practice. The OECD, IMF, the Umar Taists have been warning for years that pension reform is necessary, but last year it did not disturb you for "four times no". I have heard and I understand that if people decide to referend this year, you have no problem with this, because the voice of the people who rejected one is very important. That's how I understood your performance, Your Honored Minister, and you have no argument as to why you broke the pension reform last year. The only one I've said is that it's more important to you than to the state and to the citizens. However, you have made it very clear and loud today that the 150-million-dollar savings on pension reform are a balloon that broke because you cannot put pension mismatches into pension reform, a respected minister, and you know that, so you have been able to pull this data for 14 days or one month. If you or those who have helped you in your pension reform do not know that the model used for pension reform cannot be used so easily to calculate the financial consequences, I cannot help you. I told you what to do. The new law, the new system of those who do not meet the conditions, simply erases. Is that your goal? So they won't get their pension? This makes a model because the model can't say, "The ones you're in retirement today, stay." But there are old conditions and new conditions and therefore 150 million is a savings of fairy tales and that is why we do not believe you, not us, not Europe, not the OECD and not the IMF.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u23	Mr Matjaž Han, followed by Mrs Kristina Valenčič. Procedural mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u24	I'm sorry. Thank you very much, President. Allow me because in his preliminary implementation, the Minister said that the opposition, including Positive Slovenia, should be invited to make specific comments. For the first time, I have heard this matter and I would like to clarify – this is also my procedural proposal – the dilemma that has arisen, Minister. The only letter we have received from the Positive Slovenia Group is dated 19. Ten. 2012. From this letter sent by Mr Lovro Lončar from the Government, I will read: "Dear Sir, I am sending you a letter concerning the Proposal for a Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, the Proposal for a Labour Relations Act and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Market Regulation Act. Well, hello, mag. Lovro Loncar, Secretary of State." Nothing about an invitation. Please, if a specific letter is lost on the way — even more — to receive it today. I believe that there will be plenty of time in the process followed by the role of Members and Members, since until the law is in line with the social partners, we do not have to comment on anything. Amendments are not possible, amendments are being tabled in second reading, when the law is already in line with the social partners. As has already been said, I am making a procedural proposal to get specific letters that indicate that we have been invited specifically to comment on the dilemma that has arisen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u25	Minister Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u26	I believe you weren't prepared for this, and you missed it, because there's probably no interest then. By the way, there was this interest in the Social Democrats, and I will say so. It follows from this letter that both opposition parties have learned that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs can provide additional explanations at any time, further present legal solutions or exchange views on the solutions proposed. Mr Lukšić's reply of 20 July 2006 10. he was: "We will take advantage of the willingness to discuss proposals for laws." By email, positive Slovenia only confirmed the receipt of the material. We have this documented, and we are happy to inform you of this. So much for your readiness for substantive discussions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u27	Good afternoon. I have a word under Matjaž Han. I'm sorry. Here you go, Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u28	Matjag, excuse me a second time. I really want to clear up, Minister, because there are too many, too many accusations on your part at the expense of our non-cooperation. From the letter I read to you comes exactly as I read it — nowhere did I invite anyone to cooperate. I'll tell you something else. Positive Slovenia also participated in the first meeting of the Economic and Social Council in Brdo. With Mrs. Magi. We made specific comments at the first session. We have not received an answer from the Government until today. Therefore, do not report Positive Slovenia that it is not ready for cooperation. As has already been said, from the letter under which the Secretary of State Mr Mag. Lovro Lončar, there is no invitation to participate. However, I said in the opening presentation that I would ask you to join the Group of Members, we are pleased to welcome you, and we will be happy to hear your additional explanation. I believe that we can also find some common way to create one of the amendments that I am or are and we will talk about in the following way.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask politely if we may continue this meeting. Mr. Minister Mag asked for the floor. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u30	Your Honor! In the next few minutes, you will receive all the documentation you have obviously ignored and I will be happy to accept an invitation to your Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor, Ms Kristina Valenčič is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u32	Thank you very much. First, let me say that principle and credibility are values that apply something and must be valid, even among politicians. It's a complication, Mr. Secretary. In the parliamentary group, we were informed by the leader of the parliamentary group after the July meeting with the President of the Government and with the leaders of the parliamentary groups that an agreement on pension reform had been reached on the law on labour relations, that members of the opposition would receive these laws before they were put into the legislative procedure. This letter you've read holds. However, I must warn you that the date is 19. 10th by Mr. Lončar the day the laws came into play. When laws come into procedure, you know that then Members and Members of the opposition can only be amended, with these other matters, to amend the law. So much for this cooperation. With regard to the law itself, however, it is very difficult today to talk substantively about the law for a simple reason, because the law is not yet in line with the social partners. I hope that it will be coordinated with the social partners and this pension reform will also see the light of the world. The general comments of us, the Social Democrats, are: for the first time, that the law, given that it is today under consideration, is not in line with the social partners, and secondly, not to resent, I think the opposition is in some way under-informed as to what is happening with these laws regarding the social partners. I must say that today is an interesting session, an extraordinary session where members of the opposition can say, let's have a little laugh. We smile when we read magnetograms from one year and a half ago when we go to the SDS or SDS website and when we read the addresses. I just want to read you a few addresses, and I want you to put that on that first sentence of my credibility and principle. "The government unjustifiably threatens with the consequences of the non-acceptance of pension reform", "We vote three times against", "To speak that there is no alternative means to defend bad authority", "The pension reform is contrary to the rule of law". A year after that, we get the same pension reform on the tables with a little difference, that's what everyone says, 90% is an old pension reform. But you are lucky because it concerns me, ladies and gentlemen of the Government – that you have a credible and principled partner on the side of the Social Democrats and that we cannot break the pension reform, even though it is difficult to call it reform, but only a reform of the law. I'd like to remind you of another poster, ladies and gentlemen. And let that be the case, Mr. Vizjak, as you said we're defending trade unions. The unions also put one poster out before these reforms and asked themselves exactly this: "They are telling us that the fall of pension reform will undermine loans..." – the answer is well-known to all – he has encouraged – "... that in the face of such demographic trends, the pension register will soon be in a deep minus" – what we have warned, as warned by Prime Minister Borut Pahor, Mr Svetlik. It's true, everything we warned you about a year and a half ago is now coming back to you like a boomerang. I'm not going to talk about the content because this moment doesn't make sense. I am only afraid that the fundamental changes in this pension reform are in one segment, in the specific expenditure paid through the state budget pension fund under Article 232. Given your work so far and what we've seen about the ZUJF, I'm afraid that these people who have been receiving the pension in this article will be after a while with these funds, because you'll simply find that the money is gone and that it's the easiest way to end these funds. I'm very afraid of that. I will personally push this pension reform forward today. With our professional services, we will also look at it in the second reading, but even though some will say that I am signing the Bianca, I will support the pension reform. However, credibility and principle could be discussed for two days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs Kristina Valenčič, prepare Mrs. Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. In general as well as in the professional public, the knowledge that pension reform is necessary has matured, and that is a good thing. That's what demographic change makes us do. We also wish to update the pension system, which would follow good examples in the developed Western countries, and with the proposal ZPIZ-2 we have reached half the way. The proposal contains some encouraging solutions. The pension shall be defined as a regular monthly benefit, which shall be based on the insurance and the payment of contributions. Non-retirement expenditure, the so-called exceptions, which have been defined in the law so far and which have also stirred the public up after the adoption of the ZUJF, are transferred to the budget portfolio and are thus not part of the pension fund itself. I have a feeling that so far we have only understood the pension as a social correction, which is not good. The introduction of so-called IT calculations, which makes the system more transparent, is also an important novelty, I think. In doing so, we are also taking an important step in the sense that the public administration is a service to citizens, as the obligation of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance is introduced to inform citizens who have reached 58 years of age of their retirement on their official duty. It is also welcome to encourage businesses that employ young people, i.e. those who are first employed and who have not reached the age of 26 and mothers who care for a child up to the age of 3, because they are difficult to enter the labour market. The employers of this group of workers are allowed to apply the employer's contributions for the first 2 years, and it is good that each work and every contribution is a basis for a pension. On the other hand, I miss the greater role of individual savings and savings for age outside of national engagement, i.e. in the second and third pillars. I miss the courage of all those involved in the social dialogue to reach a consensus on bolder solutions that would allow the reform to work for a longer period of time. Nor is the social cap adequately defined and contributions still hamper the employment of highly educated and qualified staff. I therefore support the proposal because changes are necessary. They're a good compromise between what's wanted and what's possible. On the one hand, they will stop negative trends and help to get out of the crisis, but they are not such that no upgrade is possible in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u35	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Plevčak, prepare for Mr. Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u36	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! Today, with regard to pension reform, we find the errors that have been made and which will likely be repeated in the future. Pension reform is a reform that is not long-term. In my life, they have changed many times, both in basics, percentages, etc., so I am well aware that no matter has been blocked or cemented. However, I certainly believe that it is necessary to say that 40 years of working time must be without the sum of the conditions for retirement. That's the first thing I'd like to point out. That a consistent recovery of all contributions and levies is necessary, as it is noted that a few years or maybe more of this duty has not been paid. This is the responsibility of the country or leadership. With regard to the coordination of pensions for pensioners. In the following year, we require coordination of pensions, as the funds are available, at least at 50 million if the Capital Society contributes to this pension fund. With regard to the coordination of pensions in the ratio of 60:40, this has already been said, even once a year, although the coalition contract states or has agreed twice a year to coordinate. Revalorisation of pensions is also not the most fortunate – perhaps another word will have to be said about it – because the figure depends on macroeconomic indicators. Each year, it shall be appointed by the Minister responsible for work, family and social affairs, in agreement with the Ministry of Finance. I still see a lot of manipulation here. We must be aware that, with the exception of exemptions, personal income in the country is low and therefore income in the pension fund is low. The other thing is, there are few employees, large unemployment. In this area too, we will probably have to look for the reasons why we are always chronically short of funds. Finally, let me say something else, because we are limited in time in the Group of Members. Perhaps all of you remember that in earlier times, we have contributed a great deal to the pension fund. There were huge funds and from this fund, just to remind you, it was building, building Cankar's home in Ljubljana, building a caravan tunnel. These are things that need to be discussed in this regard, these are large funds and, if not, at least the revenues in this part should be allocated to this pension fund. It is necessary to clarify who is the owner and who will then return these funds to our treasury, which have been taken away from all those who are now in retirement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Michael Prevc, prepare Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which we have before us again in a slightly different form than in the previous term, is one of the most important, if not the most important reform law that is urgently needed. I think that this has been highlighted several times today, and I am sure that all those who know the situation in our country are united. We should have adopted this law years ago, because we well know that with each year of delay, conditions are only getting worse for future pensioners, let alone improve. In particular, due to the sustainability of public finances – this issue has been pointed out for several years – and for the reasons mentioned above in particular, the Slovenian People's Party was the one that supported the pension reform, as mentioned earlier, in the mandate proposed by the previous Government and in the mandate in which the Slovenian People's Party was party to the opposition. As an opposition party at the time, we were actively involved in the adoption of this law and, in particular, I would like to stress that we were constructively involved in the drafting of the then so-called Lighting Law. Why am I particularly stressing the opposition party and particularly stressing constructive cooperation? Because, with these two words, I appeal to the current opposition that it is also extremely constructive to address this subject, and I am pleased that, according to these views, the parliamentary groups I have heard and, after these first discussions, matters have gone in this direction, that we are aware of the importance of this topic. Many of our proposals have also been taken into account in the previous law. Given that those of our proposals, which have been taken into account in the previous law, are also taken into account in this or are also included in this proposal, I think it is right that, although my fellow Member has already mentioned them, I should stress them once again, because this seems very important to me. It's a bonus to mothers in retirement for every child. Thereafter, the period of compulsory military service shall be taken into account at least as a bonus under the age condition or shall be taken into account during the retirement period. In the previous proposal, the Slovenian People's Party proposed a more gradual tightening of the pension conditions during the transitional period. It also proposed that the pension period should be recognised to workers who were not paid contributions by companies to the PPIZ. Maybe the fact that the insurance companies have been given electronic access to their retirement records. What we also think is very important is that, in the previous proposal for pension reform, we have also achieved that, with a special amendment, state pensions have returned to those who have already had the full right under Article 59 of the ZPIZ. As already mentioned, there were 15,000 beneficiaries. Unfortunately, we know what happened next with these beneficiaries. Unfortunately, Svetlik's social law has simply removed this right from these beneficiaries. Most of these proposals, which I have now read, are, in one way or another, also included in this new law that we have on the table today. I can say that pension reform is a project that will have significant consequences for all generations of Slovenes and Slovenes. It is therefore of utmost importance that the law is as harmonised as possible. Even in the Slovenian People's Party, we really hope that as soon as possible some broad consensus will be found with the social partners concerning this law. As I mentioned earlier, I hope that the opposition will be extremely constructively involved in further procedures for the adoption of this law, because this is the only way that we will be able to get a law at the end of the year that will give the most reason for its purpose. Maybe it's over. We in the Slovenian People's Party also have some comments on the proposal for a law. This does not mean that today we will not vote that the law would not be suitable for further consideration. On the contrary, all Members will vote in favour of the law being suitable for further consideration. As we have done so far, until this stage we have been constructively involved in the substance of this law, we will also continue to do so through amendments. Above all, it seems to us that in this pension reform we need to give more emphasis, greater weight and more space to family policy, because in the pension reform we feel that this family policy must be expressed in a more friendly way, because we know that family policy has a key impact on the country's demographic picture. The simple fact of the pension system and insurance is that one of its foundations is the children of retired generations who, at the time of their retirement, contribute to the payment of their pensions. The payers of contributions for the payment of current pensions of retired generations are the children of these generations. The upbringing and maintenance of these children during childhood and youth means great costs and, as we know, also the burdens borne by their parents to the greatest extent. This means that parents contribute to the pension system in addition to already paid contributions — both paid and paid by other insurers — and also to their children or, in other words, to the resources, time, and energy that parents invest in their children. This is also a contribution and a contribution to the pension system. In the Slovenian People's Party, or personally, I believe that these very facts, which I have just mentioned, should have an important place in this pension law. For this reason, in the Slovenian People's Party, and personally in the process ahead, we will focus on this subject in particular in the follow-up procedure, the inclusion of a more friendly family policy in this pension reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor, or he has asked for the floor before her, Mr Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u40	Your Honor! I had previously experienced a dilemma, or a lack of awareness, of both opposition parliamentary groups, so that they did not receive letters with these references that I quoted. Moreover, Mr Han of the Social Democrats mentioned that we had sent this to them only after we had accepted the matter in the Government. On the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of the parliamentary parties of 22 August this year, we have sent all three draft laws to the opposition from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs on 6 September, together with comparative tables, to make their work even easier. This was, therefore, September 6th, well before the first hearing of the matter in the Government. I have here a letter, a letter from both the presidents of the two opposition parties, Mr Zoran Jankovic and Dr Igor Luksic, who says that we are sending them laws, and further: "The Ministry or Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs may at any time provide you with additional explanations, further presents you with legal solutions to the laws or at the meeting exchange views on the proposed solutions." Respected, this would give Parliament's leadership the opportunity to reproduce to Members in terms of eliminating misunderstandings or perceptions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u41	Mr. Secretary, we're going to have to copy it. Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Now, Minister, it really sucks that we get involved in such trivial matters. Minister, a letter was introduced earlier on October 16th. Don't get carried away because you've had enough of this. We're talking about too many important things, about pension reform, about hunting on dates, on letters, who invited whom in some way. From the letter you read, it does not appear that you invited us to participate. Only that you can come and further explain the law. No cooperation, no invitation to participate. It is true, and you have agreed to cooperate with the opposition party Positive Slovenia in the process ahead, where Members and Members can participate – at second reading, where amendments are being prepared. I'm glad you've shown this willingness. But it's not fair of you. Please, procedurally, avoid further complications – the information you give in this Chamber should be credible. You quoted the letter on September 6th, and we, the opposition MP and the MP, were talking about the letter on October 19th. October 19th, I'm sorry if I said October 16th. This letter does not give rise to any invitation to participate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u43	You'll get your word right away, Mr. Secretary. I'll read this letter. The letter is: Positive Slovenia, Mr Zoran Jankovic, President, Social Democrats, Dr Igor Luksic, President. Letter No 093-13/2012/3, 19 October 2012: "Dear! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is at a meeting of the Government on 17. Ten. 2012 adopted the Proposal for a Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, the Proposal for a Labour Relations Act and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Market Regulation Act and forwarded them to the National Assembly." Next paragraph: "We send you these laws in the annex. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs can provide you with additional explanations at any time, further presents you with legal solutions to the laws or at the meeting exchange views on the proposed solutions. Well, hello, mag. Lovro Loncar, Secretary of State. To the knowledge of the Mags. "Andrej Visiak, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs." This is this letter, which we will have copied to be received by all Members and Members of Parliament. We continue the debate. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor, then Mrs Alenka Pavlič is prepared instead of Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. All present, distinguished Mr. Secretary! As with the work done, we want a fair pay, so we want pensions based on the contributions paid. Pension reform is necessary in view of demographic trends and according to the principles pursued by reform. The fact is that the share of the population in Slovenia at 65 years of age and above is between 16% and 17%. The poor two-thirds are 20 to 64 years old, which means they are at work age, and about 19% are young, 19 years old. In some European countries, the proportion of the older population reaches up to 20%. Experts say that the proportion of elderly people will have exceeded 30% in a few decades. As a result, the proportion of young people, especially children under 14 years of age, will decline rapidly, resulting in a decrease in the share of the working population who invest in the pension system. That is why reform is necessary. Finally, the profession agrees with this. If I go back to the pension fund. Already, in this existing system, some have faced it. Let me mention one craftsman, a self-employed businessman who has paid minimum contributions for 40 years, or minimum contributions to the pension register, minimal, because it has already been difficult to scratch together. Now he's receiving a minimum pension, that's 412 euros. He does not expect to receive any more from his pension allowance because he knows that nothing belongs to him. Therefore, the pension fund must be cleared of all payments which are not based on contributions paid. In particular, it is a matter of following the fundamental principles of security and predictability. That is why we will support the pension reform in Novi Slovenija and ourselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u45	Thank you. Mrs Alenka Pavlič has the floor to prepare Mr Robert Hrovat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u46	Have you ever wondered why there is no pension reform yet, dear coalition? Because you're the one who broke the reforms of the previous government. Because you're the one who caused the country's economic downturn. Because you're the one who caused the ratings to drop. Because you are the ones who reform the previous government into 90% just cosmetically repair and sell them as your own product. Because you said no three times. That is why this reform will be even more drastic. It won't take 15 years as if pension reform could, but it will only take 5 to 7 years because you've thrown two years away. You're going to hurt the workers who got their jobs before they were 18 years old, and you're going to hurt the most women who have more children. You're going to hurt the most of us who've studied. Look at him, but why? Perhaps because a public opinion poll has shown that we are the opposition's electoral body, that we love Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats. And then the minister mocked and wept and cried at my question of office that you had inherited millions of holes. Why? He even referred to Positive Slovenia in order to do something about some Members, I don't know which. Please, we weren't on stage when you ruled. But we could accept the government, take over the government and settle all this, no problem. I hope you're aware when you finger someone else who's not guilty. You are sending the reform uncoordinated to the National Assembly. I don't know what you are if you've made any arrangements with the social partners. For example, let us look at professional pensions. In the case of occupational pensions, a register of jobs is still unknown today, although the Minister had previously announced some changes in the debate, namely in the area of compulsory pension insurance for those professions that really mean difficult working conditions, but nothing concrete. Furthermore, it is not known what contribution will be made to sufficient funding. It is not even known how these funds will affect an individual’s pension. It is not known how you will cover the 15 million hole and even less, it is not known what you will do with those who would like to raise the amounts paid in a single amount in accordance with Article 204 of the Sixth indent. Difficult conditions, weather conditions, climate conditions — all of this is specific to those who are entitled to professional pensions. And yet, I'm interested in a simple comparison. On the one hand we have motorists, on the other hand we have drivers, and we could list certain professions, miners, police officers, pilots. But let's take this example: the driver with the joystick controls the locomotive, he has the dispatcher, he has the red and green signal in front of him, and he normally has a free track. And the car driver drives in bad weather, bad roads, cars across the street, and traffic accidents. In 2000, we took away the possibility of additional pension insurance as a payment for special working conditions and the drivers are still involved. Although I don't deny that they should take this away from them, there are ambiguities here. In response to my question, the Minister said he would be pleased if these matters had been resolved five, six years ago. Look at the fragment. Who was here then? Why didn't you do it? What a short mind. I support the reform, but on one condition – to be coordinated with the social partners.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Hrvat, prepare yourself, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today we have our first hearing, I will deliberately say, the starting point of the proposal of the SPIZ. Why did I say that? Because I am sure that this law will change by the end of the adoption. Today we have heard many proposals, changes, I expect many more proposals, including adopted proposals, social partners, and I believe that we will all be satisfied in the end, and most of all pensioners and those just before that. It is a pity that the opposition has decided not to participate actively in the drafting of the law itself. The Minister has now made it very clear when a letter was sent, what was written on this letter, and I really do not understand these reactions, particularly Members of Parliament and Members of Positive Slovenia, that they were not invited to participate in the drafting of this law. With this letter, the Minister has shown you that you were telling the truth, that I will not say anything else. But no matter what, in the previous term, I was one of the members of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, and I actively participated in the adoption of the proposal ZPIZ-2, and I know and know where the main problems were. I know why there's been a referendum. Not because of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because of the unions. It is true, however, that we had a different view in the very concept of the bill at the time. What is the difference between then and today? The difference is that that financial abyss at the time was 9 billion minus in the state treasury, in the state small, in the budget, and the only counter-crisis measure at that time was the pension reform, which in some ways would not have produced immediate significant results after all those calculations. What's the difference now? This is a package of measures, not just a pension reform. The fact is that we have prepared a law on the rehabilitation of banks to release a bank spasm to obtain the necessary credits for the economy. We have prepared and adopted a law on holding to better manage state property. The next reform is also a pension reform based on contributions paid and the pension fund will be cleared of those contributions that have not been paid. Then it is labour market reform. We are talking about the flexibility of employment and increasing competitiveness, and both budgets, 2013 and 2014. This is a package of measures that will have immediate effects when adopted. This pension reform or pension and disability insurance law is based on retirement age. As the minister had previously said, 40 years of work and contributions are enough for a full pension. This is the starting point. This is the basis of this law. This is where we conceptually separated two years ago. The union proposal was exactly the same back then. This government followed the union proposals. There are still details to be arranged, but the foundation is laid. Retirement as a right relating to contributions paid. I think the immediate effect will also be with this pension fund. The minister had explained it before, but he wouldn't repeat it in any way. I think that a coordinated pension reform is necessary, in line with as many stakeholders as possible. I'm talking about the social partners, I'm talking about the opposition, and after all, there are some minor differences in the coalition, but we all have the final solution or what we have to take. We are all aware of this and I believe there will be a consensus in the end. This is a measure that ensures the stability of the pension fund at least by 2020. For some, this seems too short a time, and I say, with all the other measures proposed in this package and with those who will come, I am sure that we will increase the number of jobs and in 7 years we will have a substantial number of those who will be paying into the pension register, so the sustainability of this cash register, as it is written, will be at least by 2020. I believe it'll be even longer. The personal information calculation was an apple of the dispute two years ago. On the board, I remember, we talked about this for a long, long time. I have already talked about this, and I am also now convinced that it is motivation, motivation for younger people, where they will be able to look at each other and on the current, how much, whether the employer has paid the contributions, how much has been raised in the account. Now it's some imaginary notion when we say it's worth it, but no one has it to say, "Now I'm going to look at it easily." It is a much harder procedure to get to this information now, this moment to come, than it will be after this proposal we have. What is the purpose of this law? The key objective is to ensure that current and future pensioners are paid. It's supposed to stop the pension from falling. He has already talked about this today, and I believe that this law will end when it is passed. I look forward to a coordinated proposal. I hope, Minister, that both you in the Government and the social partners will have a sense of reason and a sense of responsibility for the Slovenes and the Slovenians. The Minister promised that all coordinated solutions by the end of the adoption of this legislation would also be included in the final product itself. Some of you spoke earlier about deleting some of the pensioners. It's pure deception and demagogy. This is not about erasure of pensioners, but every ministry in its own department, by amending the laws, will propose supplements in terms of social transfers. All within the capacity, I am sure that this will be very close to what is now or today. But the fact is, at the end of all these laws, where these changes are going to happen, we're going to get here in the National Assembly. I am sure that we will all be very, very careful with the proposals that will come and we will discuss these matters in detail. Finally, I am sure that in general the satisfaction of Slovenk and the Slovenes will also be accepted by a good pension law and by all the laws that will bring these additional social transfers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber. Yeah, I'm sorry. Procedural Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u50	Look, for the third time, I've agreed procedurally on one and the same matter. I think that all the MPs and members of the National Assembly have outgrown this childish display with a finger to each other, who doesn't, and who is to blame, where some letter has been lost, which is dated, I don't know what date. I think that the will expressed sufficiently clearly by the opposition and by the Minister at this meeting today to be, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and this is the only possibility the Rules of Procedure give us, once the law has been passed at the government meeting, Members and Members of Parliament in further drafting in the form of amendments – this possibility has been used constructively. We are not on the opposite shores of pension reform. Since it is so damn important to this country, we must stand on the same shore and not point our finger at each other, who is responsible and where there is no will. The will must be simple.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor, then instead of Mrs Kristina Valenčič prepares a mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u52	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! First, to the Minister, once again, because he was showing a document trying to prove that the Government was ready to cooperate with the opposition, I must also show a document showing that it is 19. Ten. On 19 October 2012, the proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance came to Parliament. Therefore, the agreement that we have actually adopted in July was not respected to get the opposition parliamentary groups to the law before it is formally submitted to the National Assembly. Also on September 6th, which was cited, we were given the opportunity, if I may say so, to law by the partners involved in the negotiations. But more importantly, the next thing. Speaking of trying to coordinate and talk. Mr Minister, you missed this opportunity when we introduced the law on pension and disability insurance into the procedure in the previous Government and adopted it in the National Assembly. At that time, it was time to do so, and if we did what the Slovenian People's Party did, we would have a key problem with Slovenia today. Thus, Slovenia's key problem is still open and this law, which we are considering today, is a short-term measure. Certainly not a measure that would be a reform, but a short-term measure, and this is the worst that we can see in these actions, which we have the opportunity to follow as the opposition, when we monitor the Government, which on the one hand is talking about how it proposes reforms, but when we get the product into Parliament, we find that it is not a reform, but just a short-term measure and the harmonisation of pensions that will be possible, I don't know, which lasts three years. Several times, Minister, you say you were against the previous marriage because it was supposed to be bad. But look, the previous law had a fundamental objective, but indeed as a reform to ensure decent pensions, and that in particular the lowest pensions are growing. The fundamental objective was also to achieve the sustainability of the pension fund. The aim was also to equalise the working age of men and women, gradually, by 2025, as well as the valorisation of pensions in the ratio of 70:30, i.e. 70 index of wage growth to 30 index of growth in living costs. Above all, the aim of our reform was to achieve a fair burden sharing between different age groups and the gender. What I have just said has also been very accurately calculated. The Institute for Economic Research made a calculation of the law at the time, and this calculation showed that the reform we proposed would last until 2025. What we have on the table today, we have no concrete calculation, we do not know what is going on in the process of negotiating with the social partners, and in the end we can really assess that there will be short-term changes, which are certainly not the measure that Slovenia, as a reform measure, urgently needs. To sum up the opinion of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance on your proposal for a law, however, the opinion in which we really have to ask whether the previous law was really bad or whether the one we are considering today is bad. We have already warned in the position of the Group that women will bear the brunt of this law. In fact, it is even more worrisome that the calculations show that during a certain period following the entry into force of this law, because of a different way of evaluating the pension age, women will in particular be entitled to lower amounts of pensions. Not only do they have an equal working time with men within 6 years – we have previously proposed by 2025, you are proposing within 6 years – but the calculations of the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute show that women will in particular be entitled to lower amounts of pensions. If I continue, the Council of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office notes that the proposed method of coordination of pensions also raises a number of questions, in particular the further relevance of the lowest pension base, which is expected to be coordinated in future as well as pensions. The proposed arrangement would result in a gradual reduction of the lowest pension base and consequently the lowest pensions. Above all, this is the ratio that you have in your law, where instead of 70 % of wage growth or wage growth indexation, you propose a 60% wage growth index and a 40% Life Needs Growth Index. Previously, this relationship was significantly more favourable, especially to the lowest pensions, to women. Ensuring social security is one of the starting points provided by the previous law. This does not guarantee this, encourages the next change to go in the direction that only the richest will have decent pensions, and those with lower wages will be far from it. Therefore, you are also introducing an individual account or monitoring how much an individual should pay into a pension fund, which is the next step towards introducing individual accounts and thus allowing those who have a lot of money, large salaries, better pensions, and those with the lowest rates of social survival. So it's a socially unjust bill. Most of all, you're missing the young. You are currently negotiating with social partners who are defending the category of people who are just before retirement, say, or who are already retired. Who represents young people in these negotiations in the Economic and Social Council? Nobody. For this reason, the Social Democrats will support the introduction of social security for young people into this pension legislation or the possibility of young people getting a pension. This law that you are proposing does not allow them to do so, and this needs to be stressed. When you talk about not erasing a certain number of pensioners – yes, it is. In fact, you are withdrawing from the pension fund a significant number of beneficiaries, pension recipients. If we know that we need about 4.3 billion at this moment to settle all liabilities to pensioners, the budget needs to provide 1.4 billion. EUR 400 million is what you will transfer from your pension allowance to social transfers and you will want to boast about how successful you are now in pension reform. Pure deception, pure bluff! What you are doing is really far from what Slovenia needs right now as a country to settle its situation, and far from what people expect – that they will have social security at a time when they will be in a well-deserved retirement. We expect that some additional proposals will come through this social dialogue that is under way, but we are aware that these proposals are not going in the direction that we can talk about reform, but only some minimum coordination, which in the long run is an even bigger problem for Slovenia, and especially for young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u54	Dear Mr Weber, I see that many of your observations stem from the lack of knowledge of the proposal and also of the provisions, and I regret that you have not accepted the invitation we have sent you 19. 10, so it's a bad month ago to further explain this to you, and we could clear up certain things. We would also like to present the calculations of the Institute of Economic Research. Indeed, this is what you are relying on, what was the reform in 2010, and that you do not know these effects for this concrete reform. We would be happy to present this to you if you would just show an interest, and I hope that you will be able to explain it to you in the future. Nor is it true that you got the September marriages under your hand because we sent them to you from our e-mails. We also have evidence of this, and I can bring it to you here, because at the time it was based on the agreement of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Parties 22. 8th we agreed to send you materials on September 6th this year. That's what you got. We have not done all the financial calculations of this law at the Ministry over the thumb, but on the basis of the same model or, even better, an improved model, solved all the weaknesses that have already been mentioned today, and the same institute has done so. We'd be happy to introduce you. If the institute that made this model doesn't have the right data, I don't know who has it, and who can better deny these indications and on what basis. I rely on what has been done in the past, which is good and what we have corrected, and we base our calculations on this. It's not true we're missing young people. On the contrary, we have included in the negotiations the Student Organisation of Slovenia as one of the very strong representatives of young people. Finally, we sat with them twice on the subject, and we also sent them a marriage and listened to their comments. You forget the provisions of this law that provide incentives for the employment of young people, as they receive reduced contributions to pension and disability insurance at the time of their first employment. It is not true that we miss young people — they are inside. We are in line with the Student Organisation and, by the way, I have to tell you when you make these comments quite often in the stars – that their comments on the law are diametrically opposed to trade unions. I'll tell you one of these. They do not want the student work to be treated as the rest of the work and subject to the payment of contributions. This is not what they want, for example, while union organisations all want each work to count, including this work. So, you know, it's not that easy then to knit it together, even though you want us to get in line with these, those and the third. Yes, if the comments are about the same direction and are not excluded. Then you're talking about lowering women's pensions. I told you that during a stable period, this reform gives everyone a higher pension, between 7% and 8%, if it works two years longer. This is also the case during the transitional period, but we are aware that a certain gap has been established during this transitional period, which we have already addressed with an alternative proposal, which means that someone, even during a transition period of one year longer, will have at least the same pension as they would have under the old pension conditions. We have also done this for a transitional period, and we have destroyed this evidence, which was from the Council of PIZ and not from the PIZ, because this is the difference, this is the body. The world is, yes, it is. You're also talking about reducing the lowest pension base. It's not like that. We are essentially summarizing that proposal, which has been negotiated, that the lowest base also binds to 60% of the average wage, which means it rises. This means that more contributions have been paid for those with the lowest salaries and, as a result, more pensions than if they were measured in the same way as all others. It is not true that this proposal does not have some intra-generational solidarity, solidarity within the system, not between generations, but within a generation, and we sum up this solution because it was negotiated at the time. It is also agreed with by employers, although this means that there are slightly higher levels of contribution for them, gradually, of course, but it does. I think there is a lot that we can clarify in further negotiations on this regulation. I can also introduce you to the course of negotiations, which are different every day as we negotiate every day. This proceeds are progressing, and therefore I ask you to accept our willingness to talk within your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u55	Mr. Janko Weber, you have a replica, probably.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u56	Not likely, but yes. Mr Minister, I would like to stress once again about young people – you have left this out in your own explanations – that the previous law contained the same solutions. Incentives for youth employment have already been included in the previous law and are also now in the same content. Having sat twice with youth organisations is sufficient coordination for you. How many times have you sat down with other social partners? A substantial number of times. By not deceiving the public, and if you have calculations – we can debate today in Parliament about the text that has come to Parliament, we cannot discuss what has happened today, what will happen tomorrow, and this is a mistake of the government. The law should not enter into the procedure of the National Assembly until the social dialogue is concluded. Then we know what we are talking about in Parliament. Until this social dialogue is concluded, these data are changing. Once again, Minister, I ask you to make a public statement, and what calculation has it shown at the Institute, how long will your marriage last, how long has it been since what was in the initial phase and what is happening today?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u57	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u58	I'd love to, honourable Member. First of all, it is obvious that we are negotiating during the parliamentary procedure. You in your government did the same thing, not to read it. How's that? Not only that, you passed a law that was harmonised. Not only did you start the procedure, you even accepted it, which is a different step. As far as the calculations are concerned, all I can tell you is that the number, which also comes from the text of the law, is that this solution ensures the stability of the pension allowance for at least 7 years, by 2020, on the basis of the calculation of the Institute of Economic Research. Mr. Weber, shall I repeat? I'm running out of time. This figure, that the sustainability of these solutions of the pension system by 2020 is the calculation of the Institute of Economic Research, not us. No institute, we didn't make up any numbers, it's all calculated by experts.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u59	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mag. Katarina Hočevar, prepare for Mr Jerko Čehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting on my behalf as well. I will support the law in the first reading because it relieves the pension fund and introduces so-called IT calculations or, I call it better, a record which will both help to ensure the transparency and transparency of the system, which we are taking up in the Civil Gazette. A major advantage of this proposal is also the reduction of the age for insured persons who have been employed before the age of 18. With the law, we will stop the drop in the dose percentage, which is crucial for the pension, so the vote for the marriage is a vote for Slovenian pensioners and also a vote for young people, as evidenced in Article 157 of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin has the floor, and Mrs Janja Klasinc is preparing instead of Mr Jožef Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Nice greeting, too, Minister. Finally, I'd say there's finally one real step in the right direction. I could say that after a long period of wandering, or if I use it for this government, it also seems to me that it has confused these priorities and instead of coming up with a clear concept of how to solve the crisis, it is only today that we are presented with one of the rare systemic laws that restructure the financial picture. This assessment would be very much appreciated if we found that it was a real reform, but I would say that it was a reformer who would take some time and need to be re-examined and re-excited again. Indeed, the current pensioners have no interest in whether or not we will have an informational calculation. This may be of interest to future pensioners, the working population, while these current pensioners are difficult to drag from month to month. But what would be commendable is that the biggest government party finally realized that it could not only be pyromanic, but it did, obviously, a fire test at that time, and now we're all going to put these things out together, just as we should have done a long time ago. Thank you. Given that the matter is not coherent with the partners, it is very difficult today to talk about some substantive solutions. What the minister said before – we received in September a completely different version of the law from what we are dealing with today. There are some things that have been completely changed, and we do not know what the final agreement with the social partners will bring. Only then will we be able to say whether this is more important or not. Now we can only say a few things in principle. We are all aware that some long-term sustainability of the pension system needs to be ensured to this country and that beneficiaries can be afforded an adequate pension refund. These demographic trends and actuarial calculations show that it will be necessary to work longer, but we are only talking too much about the legal minimum needed for retirement, and not enough about incentives to extend the activities of older people in the form of so-called small work, with an appropriate system or the level of bonuses and minorities, as well as improving the working situation in the field of health for older people. In this sense, the ZUJF is a departure from what has just been said, as the ZUJF practically legitimizes compulsory retirement. How do we strengthen the second, third pillar? That's not what we're talking about. How do we stimulate this? Other measures are also needed, and I agree here with the Minister that at the same time, labour market reform, as well as some other laws, must be carried out in parallel. Unfortunately, we don't have a health reform yet. This is the picture that would improve our rating, not the ZUJF. I think that's what the ZUJF was really all about. Since I am already at ZUJF, let me make it clear that the solutions you bring to Article 408, to me, are constitutionally controversial. Very controversial. Finally, here you throw in some people who have completely done their working time properly. You will put them on individual ministries, as I understand the Minister has said otherwise, Mr Hrvat said otherwise. These beneficiaries will now be addressed by individual ministries, which means that former militias should have the Ministry of the Interior or internal affairs officials, customs officers of the Ministry of Finance – I speak for old federal customs officers – and you will probably have disabled persons and internees, while this outgoing generation is still alive and possibly fighters. The Ministry of Defence is expected to have military pensioners who were retired in the previous country or who had part-time employment in the previous country, etc. This will establish not only an untransparent system but also require a lot of work, because all of these people will have to make new decisions. Moreover, this is not a category of people whose contributions have not been paid. One militiaman or an employee of the Home Affairs Authority is one thing to care about where the contributions were paid. One more thing. You know, Mr. Minister, unless you're doing this on purpose, you and the whole government, that international agreements are stronger by rank than local laws. If we have not been able to negotiate properly, this means that we have had incompetent people at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or at the departmental ministries. It's not a pensioner's problem. It's a problem of the ability, credibility of this country. These people have constitutionally guaranteed rights and rights with international agreements. However, I fear that you, through this 408, want to enforce Article 143 of the ZUJF and actually replace it as a permanent solution. In principle, I agree with the need to clean up the pension allowance, but I suggest that these matters are valid for the future, not for the latter, not for those who have acquired these rights. This is how we should resolve these matters in a serious country. Let me just remind you, we all know this thing. Italians who love money horribly made it possible for Primors, sea recruits, soldiers to receive so-called Italian pensions. Many families have also helped themselves. Why they did it, I don't know. But you could say, "We don't care, you're in a new country." But they did. Let's take it seriously here again. I think these things, as far as they're concerned, are not properly resolved. That's why we're going to amend things and try to eliminate what's wrong with this law with the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mrs Janja Klasinc has the floor to prepare Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u64	Hello! Your Honor, allow me to begin with three thanks. First, I would like to thank the gentlemen of the OECD, then thank the gentlemen of the IMF and, in particular, thank Mrs Angela Merkel. Why? Because if it were not for these people, we would not be considering the first reform law of this government today in the National Assembly. It is true that it is not entirely yours, that three quarters of this law has already been written by the previous Government, but, however, it is the first reform law, the first reform that we are really considering here. Everything else was some minor correction of others. If it were not for this international community, which has definitively explained to this Government that it must accept pension reform, because without it it will not work, then today our Prime Minister, Janez Janša, would be listening to explain how this government's priority is not exactly pension reform. Then it would be easier to understand why Mr Janša put this reform into his government's work plan only next year, and let the minister say whatever he wants. The Minister said that you found out in the government, right, Mr Minister, that there is such a difficult public financial situation and that that is why this must be done today. But, you know, that kind of public financial position was already when you started this government, maybe you just didn't know, and you caused that kind of extra, just because you inspired unions and the Slovenian public a year and a half ago that they didn't accept Svetlik's pension reforms. My colleague, Pavlič, talked about all the consequences today, but she would not repeat them. I am very sorry that we are discussing this pension reform even when it is not yet in line with the social partners. But I believe that at the second reading of this law, we will be able to be more specific. In my personal opinion, this reform of yours will bring a lot of good things to the people who started working before the age of 18, i.e. the more uneducated part of our country, and will bring a much more difficult retirement to the people who have studied because the possibilities of our study years will no longer be taken into account. Also, all other conditions that concern students in some other articles will be a little more difficult. But it is true that we will be the most affected women. There is an extremely short transition period for women, and at the same time, the relief of women's care and upbringing has also deteriorated, and all together with what I have already mentioned before, as regards intellectuals — including women who have studied, we will get a job later. I'll tell you that I've calculated for myself -- everyone has someone around -- I'll probably have to work almost four years more than I would after the current. But this is the sacrifice of all of us, which we must accept, and that is why we also said in Positive Slovenia that we must work longer, that we agree to such a reform and we will not oppose it at this stage, not by any means, because Slovenia has retired too quickly. Which is the problem, and this is what my colleague Chehovin just talked about, which is also the second biggest problem for me, is the repetition of the ZUJF in this reform. You can all claim what you want, but it's one third of Slovenian pensioners, 44 special groups, including disabled people, asbestos patients, NOB fighters, victims of Dachau processes, holders of military pensions, etc. In her presentation of the ruling SDS party's position, colleague Tomc said that this reform places pensions in such a way that they are not social benefits. Mr Minister, colleagues from SDS, I simply don't believe this about this group of people. For this group, but that's a third of the pensioners. Because if you're actually going to distribute this through departmental ministries, I believe that the crisis will last for another 10 years. That's what all the experts say, and then we'll run out of money for the district minister. You know, Mr. Secretary, the easiest thing to do. It will be cut off everywhere, linearly, and the first will be that it will be cut off in the pensions of these people, who will have no security, no cover, despite the fact that many have paid, as has already been said, all their working hours of social benefits. Many of them, especially those with military pensions, are protected by legislation. The Law on the Rights of the Pension and Disability Insurance of Former Military Insurers, the Law on the Ratification of the Succession Agreement, the Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the Independence and Independence of the Republic of Slovenia – all of these are laws adopted by the National Assembly and which ensure to all of these people who have received military pensions that they will receive them in the future. For the first time, we cut them off with the ZUJF, and now they have a good chance of getting cut in the future with the pension law. It would no longer go into detail in other areas. However, I hope that this debate, Mr Minister, will be as fruitful as you promised us that you will take our proposals into account in the next process and that we will work together to make a law for which we will not find it difficult to press the button for. But at the end of the day, I'd like to draw your attention to something else. If we are to work until the age of 65, we must be aware that it is also appropriate to amend labour legislation. All developed countries, especially Scandinavian countries, have jobs that are suitable for their psychophysical abilities in those years, which are different from their age. All those who are active would like to work until the age of 65, even by the age of 70, but not in jobs that are suitable for 30-year-olds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u65	Thank you. Mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u66	Your Honor, I'm adverting myself to remove one dilemma that you've raised that is not real. You mentioned that we devote ourselves a little bit more to those who started working with 18 years or earlier and less of those who studied and started working later. No, no, no. We want the same vats for both of us. We want to simply instill perception that if an industrial worker can work for 40 years, an intellectual can. If a person can work for 40 years, if he starts working at 16 years of age or 18 years of age, then he can also work for 40 years who started working at 24, 25 years of age or 27. This is what we want to equalize, which is not today. It's actually worse today! Today, work before the age of 18, not both sexes are included, but only women, which means that after today’s legislation, the person who started working with the age of 15, 42, 43 years, is already working. Is that right? At the same time, we even have a bunch of layoffs for those who have been employed for extended studies, say, at the age of 26. Is that right? That's not right. That's why, Your Honor, we don't favor anyone. On the contrary, we put 40 years of unremunerated retirement as a basic condition for all, regardless of their education.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Klasinc has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u68	Mr. Minister, if someone started working, let's say, at the age of 18 or 17, and worked for 40 years, at the time of retirement, how old is he? 57, 58 years old. Someone who studied regularly — let those who study longer — studied to his own degree, say, in the 24th year, that he had completed all the exams. Then, at least in our period of study, we had one year of undergraduate. Some of us ended up early, some of us later. After you get a job right away, it might be up to 65, maybe not. The worst part is — why I now speak, it is not us who have studied at times, but it is this youth that we now work for, or these young people who, look at when they get jobs. 30 years ago, any intellectual can rarely be employed. I'm not just warning you, Mr. Secretary. You were a member of the previous term, and you will probably remember that I also warned the previous government, which was my government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša has the floor, Mr Matevž Frangež is preparing instead of Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Greetings to all colleagues and colleagues and others in the hall! First, I would start by saying that there is nothing wrong with the process of adopting pension reform working on a gradual basis. I think that nothing would be wrong if, even in the previous mandate, we went in such a way that, for example, we would say that the sustainable system by 2020 and then we would have a new debate before the end, because the situation would change significantly. Perhaps in the previous reform, the solution was too long-term. But I won't look back, I won't talk about who he is and who didn't support the pension reform in the previous term, we all know that anyway. At the outset, however, in any event, I would like to highlight two important issues brought about by the new proposal for a law. The first is that the pension and disability insurance in the Republic of Slovenia is based on the insurance principle, which means that the right to a pension is a pension right from pension and disability insurance based on the past work and based on contributions made at the time we work. Secondly, a very important issue, the bill seeks to repay a pension based on the contributions paid, the status rights earned by the previous work and the contributions paid to the pension fund. However, clearly and unequivocally, I would like to point out, in particular, that we do not object to the fact that those who have obtained rights on the basis of different laws in the future receive an appropriate so-called pension or some kind of social transfer. The pensioner must exercise transparency, which is crucial to us or to our client. The payment of these pensions, including those I mentioned earlier, is not opposed to the payment of PIZ, but it is true that funds must be provided transparently from the budget. Whether this will provide an individual ministry for a given area is a question of how this will be agreed in the future. It is true that demographic data shows that over the last 20 years, the age of men has actually increased by 7.1 years, that women live longer – even for 5.5 years. It is also true that the data suggests that Slovenians and Slovenians on average only work for 35 years. In our Group of Members, we do not oppose that the basic condition for retirement would be 40 years of working time. It is true that some things, which are parallel, must also be coordinated accordingly. A little earlier, some of you were talking about those who enter a working relationship at the age of 15 or possibly at the age of 16 and 17. These have been very few in recent times, or we can say that almost nothing more. The pension is in no way a social transfer, but is an economic right on the basis of past work and contributions paid. That's the key. A full pension should be as much as it was originally. Looking back in 2001, this was 73.2% of the average net salary. Now it's only 58.6%. We should also coordinate these matters, and we have not done this in the past.In our parliamentary group as well as in the party, we will insist that the old pension in the future must be at least 62.3% relative to the average wage. When we talk about pension reform, we must not forget the crucial moment that took place in 1996. That's when the employers' contribution rate went down. You know that all European Union countries have the same percentage of contributions, both the employer and the employer. With us, this relationship was then significantly damaged, in the interest of helping the economy. What this would mean at this point, it would probably not be wise to do something that would further burden our economy in such difficult times and difficult circumstances. However, it is very important that our services recover contributions that are not paid into the pension register. I will try to squander some small data so that we can think more easily and also discuss it further. All pension recipients have 591 thousand 641. This is August of this year's data. The average pension is about €563, and together we need €333 million per month for pensions. However, insurance workers employed by legal persons and private persons amount to 775 thousand 816. The average gross salary amounts to a thousand EUR 512 and the amount of wages is one billion 173 million EUR 77 000 817. Workers' contributions from gross income for pension and disability insurance amount to 15.50% and employers' contributions, as I mentioned earlier, 8.85%. The total contribution from the gross salary shall be 24,35 %. The inflow to the pension register, that means that it comes from the mass of wages, from that billion and so many millions, which I mentioned earlier, is EUR 285,000 813. I would like to say that only EUR 47 million 512 000 429 is missing to cover monthly all liabilities to the pension fund or all liabilities until the pension is paid. That's not the amount we're talking about, a billion 400 million, which we said the budget should pay for pensions. This amount is significantly different if all contributions not paid were also recovered. There's something else I'd like to point out. In the near future, we will also have to look at how much we need for a system that pays pensions, how much this costs us a month and what costs this system has. I announce to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs that this will be one of my next questions. I want this matter to be brought to light, so that we can understand how much it costs and who pays, from which title these obligations are paid to the PPIZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the following word. Instead of Mr Roman Žuglič, please prepare Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u72	The story of this pension law is the story of the teachings, knowledge and mistakes of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Democratic Party of the pensioners of Slovenia. I'm glad you came to this knowledge. I say that everyone comes to their senses sooner or later, and I am glad that in one year you have experienced a transformation that has enlightened you about the problems of Slovenian society. I am pleased that today, before this marriage is likely to be confirmed by the exemplary majority in the National Assembly, we are fit for further consideration. This does not mean that there is no kind of detail in this law that is very disturbing. I would like to remind you that representatives of the SDS and also DeSUS last year, when we met for months at meetings of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, warned: "This law is good in principle, it is only a few details." Today, I hear from the SDS representatives: "This law is good and some details will be harmonised." The question is whether there will be harmonisation. Firstly, we do not need this pension law or pension reform simply to safeguard the situation and security of the current generations of pensioners. We need it much more to show, as a country, that we are behind our pension system, that we are able to adapt and modify it in order to maintain it in the long term, that it will also be sustainable and stable for future generations. One of the key problems of the long-term view of Slovenian society in 15, 20 years will be that we will meet whole generations of people who will not be provided with pension insurance. How will we react to this problem then? That's what we need to think about today. Today, as entire generations of people remain in the labour market without rights, without adequate insurance! This is unacceptable for the modern society of the 21st century, as Slovenia wants to be! We must show young people today that, as a country, we are serious about this pension system. We need to show young people that contributions are being made. We need to show young people that it pays to go beyond the grey economy and contribute something to social solidarity, because tomorrow this social solidarity will also have its own security. This must be an emphasis on pension reform, and I fear that this is not the emphasis of this pension law, which stands before us today, and even less of the emphasis of others, closely related to this law, on labour market regulation. Another time. I object to the adoption of this law by expelling 170,000 pensioners, 170,000 insured workers who paid their pension contributions, but other pension funds. In order to respect their rights, we are also bound by international treaties signed by Slovenia. These international treaties bind Slovenia directly, they also oblige the National Assembly to adopt our legislation in accordance with these international obligations of the Republic of Slovenia. A law contrary to these international obligations is an unconstitutional law. 170 thousand pensioners, who will be excluded from the pension system under the name of the pension fund clearance – their position will have to be regulated and I call on the Minister of Labour to present to the public the law which intends to regulate the situation of these 170 thousand pensioners, 44 different categories, during the examination of this pension law. Otherwise, it will be mine, and I believe that our demand is that this situation be settled within the pension law. Do not take these people's rights and weapons to realize what their legitimate expectations are.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša asked for the replica, then Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. Dear colleague Frangež, I didn't want to talk about history, but I'll do it anyway because you pulled my tongue. You mentioned DeSUS – I will only refresh my memory of what I was talking about earlier, about the average salary pension, 73.2% in 2001 and then in 2011, when we actually came in 62.3% of the average salary. We know exactly why we didn't back up pension reforms at the time. For a simple reason, there was no obedience to the reconciliation of pensions with the government. We have also strongly warned about this, and we have also made it clear and clear. At the fourth summit of the coalition in the third year of the mandate, colleague Zanoškar, who is now sitting in Positive Slovenia, said as a representative of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia: "Let's stop the horses, talk to the social partners and coordinate this with each other in order to adopt the pension reform." No, the answer was no. Finally, it was said that we will fight like lions, that this reform will go through the whole procedure and that it will also be adopted. By then, we knew well that this was actually going to be a referendum. At this point, I would have stopped, I just wanted to say, but I will not talk about how we, as coalition partners, coordinated these matters at the time. Some of you remember these coalition coordinations well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u75	Minister Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u76	Thank you very much. He explained something. Even today, the situation of these pensioners is regulated by a number of other laws under this Article 232 or the new Article 161. They're not regulated by the law on pension and disability insurance. The situation of these pensioners is being resolved by sectoral legislation and nothing will be changed. Nothing. The situation of these pensioners is resolved by sectoral legislation. It is true, however, that this will no longer be the concern of a single budget item of the Ministry of Finance, but will also be managed by those responsible for these areas. I think that's right. So, however we touch on this situation of these people, we will touch on the proposal of the Government in this House. You will be familiar with the solutions and will co-form them and you will be able to reject them, whatever will be different than it is now. However, with the law on pension and disability insurance, it is only a continuation that we intend to do so, and nothing else. That's one thing. Another thing is when we talk about young people and encouragement for young people. What is more encouraging for young people than to start believing in the pension system and that the pension system is financially sustainable, so it pays to get something later? If we maintain the current perception of young people until it is not worth paying into the pension system, because we can't pay any of it anyway, it's the worst thing and we want to fix it. Here I am really warning you that there is one purely healthy farmer's mind and logic, nothing else. We all know our life span is getting longer. We're living longer. Life expectancy has increased over the last 100 years by 30 years. Do you know what that means? For 30 years we've lived longer in the last 100 years. Every year, our life expectancy is extended by three months. It's a civilization achievement, it's a good thing. Thank God that's true. We're happy about that. However, this fact must also be adapted to this situation by systems such as the pension system, such as the health system and, like many others, the other system. What do we have available? We live longer. What, then, do we have at our disposal to adjust the pension system? Four things. The first thing is to ease the extension of the period of receiving a pension, because if longer lives, the period of receiving pensions also increases. So that this period does not extend as long as the retirement age. Some countries have already attached retirement conditions to the expected age. Some European countries are already doing this. This is the first possible measure — not to prolong or reduce the pressure on the extension of the period of retirement. The second step is to raise contributions to go more to the cash register, because then we can share more. The third measure is the reduction of pensions to reduce expenditure. However, the fourth measure is to extend the payment of contributions, i.e. to continue paying our contributions. There's only four of them. I don't know the fifth, but I do know the combination of some or all of them. We have decided in this pension reform to combine the first and the last. So, to relieve the pressure on the extension of the period of retirement due to longer lifespan, by raising the retirement age and prolonging the activity of the population. That's the first step. The second measure is to extend the payment to the pension fund in order and also due to certain other measures. We have not decided to lower our pensions, and we have not decided to increase our contributions. The increase in contributions would stifle an already impoverished economy, and the reduction of pensions would further affect the already affected pensioners. That, Your Honor, is all logic. If one of you invents me a magic wand, where else do you further deal with these divisive dilemmas in the pension box, it is very welcome and therefore our invitation to participate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u77	Mr. Matevž Frangež, please choose a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u78	First of all, living longer is good news, but that's what we knew last year. How long did the life expectancy last year extend to this year that you yourself, Mr. Vizjak, came to these insights? Today in this answer you convinced me of what I convinced you last year. I am glad that I was obviously successful in this persuasion.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u79	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u80	Dear Mr. Frangež, your solution to this same principle has been poor. This one's better. We put 40 years of non-compensation insurance at the forefront, 40 years of work. You didn't put it in front of you for 65 years. [[advertising from the hall]] That's right. It was also a fundamental conflict that you had with the unions, not just with the opposition. You are now minimizing the fall of your pension reform, if I may call it, against the opposition, which I have told you ten times before is not true. Your pension reform has fallen because the unions have launched a referendum, because we have also pointed out certain shortcomings that we are correcting now and because 75% of the people in the referendum have rejected it. This is why pension reform has fallen, not because of Visionary or SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u81	Mr. Janez Fishich has the floor. Instead of Mrs Alenka Pavlič, Mr Roman Jakič is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u82	Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! In the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Preseknik, stressed the importance of this law, in particular the fact that it is necessary to adopt it as soon as possible. I think so, too, and all Members and Members of the Slovenian People's Party. We are at least three years behind in the reform process. He also said that the members of the Slovenian People's Party voted in favour of a similar proposal in the previous mandate, precisely for this reason, because of the necessity of regulation that we will not be in a situation where we should reduce pensions to the current pensioners. If anyone can be loud today, we can be Members of the Slovenian People's Party. Lately, it is time to correct the conditions of retirement and adjust them to the real state. The fact is that we live longer, so it is right to allow ourselves to work longer and retire at a higher age. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have endeavoured to ensure that transition periods are as painful and fair as possible to all those who are just before retirement and to the unemployed. The fact is that we will have to follow other European countries facing the same problems and have already raised the retirement age to 65 or 67 years. At the same time, it is right to maintain the possibility of retirement at the minimum age of 15 years or 20 years at an older age, since, for example, many mothers who had to stay at home for children will certainly not have to reach the maximum age of 40 years of work. Therefore, raising the age over a transitional period to 60 years at the 40-year retirement age is a completely reasonable and acceptable solution, with the gradual deterioration of conditions during the transitional period. The Member and Members of the Slovenian People's Party also advocate the view that the pension system must continue to be based on solidarity and an intergenerational agreement, as well as on the principle of fairness. However, in the next phase, following the exit from the crisis, more positive incentives must be put in place for a better demographic picture, which is a long-term necessary solution for the stability of social registers. In the debate, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the principle of solidarity, we must also address small businesses and farmers who cannot afford decent pensions themselves. Family enterprises and family farms are in the past and will also be an important part of the economy in the future, an important part of job provision and, as a consequence, of social funds. All contribute greatly by their work and by providing jobs, and we must also take into account the specificity of small economies when adopting laws. That is why I support the proposals of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and I also believe that we should not provide otherwise simply because of the status forms of the right. Entrepreneurs must also have guaranteed basic rights, for example with regard to rehabilitation and disability. It is undeniable that their work and payment of taxes and contributions constitute a more stable part of the economy and jobs. The craftsmen have in the past paid into the craftsmen's fund but have not been treated the same as the others employed in social enterprises. It would therefore be fair to this fund to allow it to continue its business and that everyone who paid into the fund would be able to receive their share of the fund's pension at an age. I am also sorry that it is too late, since the former Minister has abolished state pensions for some 15,000 beneficiaries, mostly from the countryside. Therefore, new criminal provisions should not further affect farmers and small entrepreneurs. Your Honor! As in the previous proposal, Members and Members of the Slovenian People's Party will continue to cooperate constructively, constructively and to support the law, because, as we said in the debates, it is a time for action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Roman Jakič has the floor. Mrs Eva Irgle is prepared instead of Mr Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Let me begin by finding that I did not like the start of this session today when this method of some disqualification and discreditation fell out again. When Alenka Bratušek asked the minister or asked him for an answer, he tried to disqualify her by saying what he was asking or sending her back to sit down and saying that she was the director of the department anyway. This method, I must say, these disqualifications and discredits of people in this national council and in the general public, I don't like it. If he wants to ask Stepišnik something, you'll say you're a problem with state aid at his firm. If he asks any questions, you tell him he worked with the State Security Service. You're in Wilfan's office right now on the trenches about the authenticity of the signature under the referendum. But if Kavtičnik and I say something and you open it up, you're even in trouble with the rule of LDS and Really. But you don't answer the questions. You don't answer questions because you don't have the right answer to them and you have to hide behind something that has nothing to do with content. Retirement reform is necessary, and the point is necessary. What the social partners are supposed to say in addition to politics, all of them point again at this point. I would like the agreement to be concluded before the final examination of the pension law, so that we will not then be a witness, especially at DeSUS, breaking hands and shampooing the heads of those who will not be satisfied in the coalition with the proposal. But if I have understood the Minister correctly before he responded to the SD, the proposal for pension reform will be sent to this National Assembly in coordination with the social partners, because the SD has not sent him in a coordinated manner and that is why it has been demolished. I'll take your word for it. I wish the marriage would eventually be modern and just. This was discussed by her colleague Romana Tomc when she defended the SDS decision, which collapsed the reform a year ago because she wanted to win the elections, and this is the answer to Alice's question. You wanted to win the election and you went across the board. That didn't really help you either, and you lost the election. It is interesting that the SDS also actually uses double criteria when it speaks of why disharmony has led to forced decisions for the referendum, as said by colleague Tomc. You said that you disagreed with the law and that they disagreed with your solutions. Despite your own experience, painfully, if I understand correctly, you do not allow such an opinion today either to us or to those who do not really agree with you. Not only are you bubbling legislation without the consent of the social partners, but you are using all kinds of scams that are not part of democratic regulation. These scams include the impeding of a human initiative. President Virant, by the way, has not yet replied why he had been for 14 days and then kept the signatures in the drawer for 3 days and informed the signatories 15 minutes before the expiry of the deadline that there were not enough signatures – the same signatures that turned out to have been stolen, hidden, lost. When the unions and the public found this coalition with their fingers in forbidden marmalades, the importance of this discarded act began to be reduced to all sorts of crisps and to escape from the objective responsibility of Virant, Gorenak and Janša alone.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u85	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u86	Dear Member, on the contrary. Your fellow Members, Mrs Bratusek, I have tried to answer all the questions. I think I answered that, too. But she did ask a lot of rhetorical questions because she asked, and then she said she knew the answer and said the answer. That was said. Read the magnetogram and you'll see. Nevertheless, I have worked hard and will try to answer all the questions raised in the future. However, so much so that we understand each other, and you will see from my magnetogram, if you read it, that I did not promise the Social Democrats that we would send a harmonised law to Parliament because we did not, because I cannot keep this promise either. I didn't promise to bring the law into line either. I don't know that. I'll do my best. I will do everything in my power to bring this law into line. That's what I do every day, and I'll keep trying until the last minute. I can promise you that.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Eva Irgle, prepare yourself for the Mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I will try to be more calm in the debate, even though we initially listened to quite a lot of shouting and screaming by the gentler sex of Positive Slovenia, and I do not think this leads anywhere. But there may be a greater fog of judgment. It is also not worth discussing, as we have seen at the outset, the signatures or letters that took place between the Minister or Government and Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats. However, about 15 minutes ago, we received at the table a chronic proof of why such a cry was at first present and why we had so many procedural proposals. Minister Vizjak reasoned that. We received a letter today from the cabinet of the President of the Government addressed to Mr Zoran Jankovic, President of Positive Slovenia, as well as to Mr Igor Luksic, President of the Social Democrats. The President of the Social Democrats clearly replied to the Minister, while no letter and no reply were sent to the Government in Positive Slovenia. Then I wonder how you listen to someone or don't listen, but I find it extremely inappropriate. Comrade Jakič, as in this case, your colleague, Mrs Maša Kociper, is sent in particular, if I am not mistaken. That's how she sent you to Mr. President of the National Assembly. With regard to colleague Wilfan, it is clear that it is easier to assign a threesome than a box to which it must be signed. I'm sorry, we could have seen that. That signature box was empty. Slovenia has so far failed to implement key reforms, contrary to the rest of the European Union. I would also like to see some reform adopted earlier, but it is because this government is aware of the situation in which we have already reached out to public expenditure, particularly with the Public Finance Balance Act. Therefore, squabbling at the beginning and arguing about who is more responsible for something, who is more guilty, will bring no good. According to the various indicators, Slovenia urgently needs a package of reforms, but it does not need only cosmetic corrections, as we have listened to most of the time in the previous mandate, but needs comprehensive reforms, both pension reforms and labour market reforms, and undoubtedly laws to stabilise public finances. Adoption of reforms is crucial if, in some cases, we want to establish such an environment in the short term or in particular in the long term, which will have a positive impact mainly on the stability of public finances., If we achieve the stability of public finances, then this will undoubtedly bring better conditions, first of all for the operation of businesses, if I am purely concrete. This will increase competitiveness, but if there is greater competitiveness, there will be more jobs and, as a result, we will have more added value, leading to greater prosperity for citizens and citizens. This should be the key goal of all of us sitting here today, not arguing and shouting, as we hear from the gentler sex of Positive Slovenia all the time, not only here in the National Assembly, but also in the various working bodies. The government of Janez Janša has assessed the situation very well and precisely, so we have taken first intervention measures and a large number of legislative changes that affect Slovenia's ability to start with a longer-term development based on healthier foundations. Now, as has already been said, we have a package of reforms. The pension is defined in this pension reform as a work-life right. This reform is aimed at ensuring the fiscal sustainability of the pension fund until 2020. The opposition, particularly the Positive Slovenia, was expected to strike its own manners with all the cannons against the Slovenian Democratic Party, czech, why you were previously against pension reform. That was expected. Reading of magnetograms, etc. was also expected. We already know that, and that's what we expected. However, when you point to someone with your finger, then you need to be clear and reasoned and also make clear some other things that are minor to you. It should be borne in mind that the Slovenian Democratic Party did not send the pension reform to the referendum, but the unions did. The unions were the ones, and why? Not because the Slovenian Democratic Party would want it so badly because it wanted to take power from you, but because the government has not established a dialogue with the unions. Nor did it establish a dialogue with the opposition at the time. Nobody talked to us about it. Arrogans also resorted to trade unions and a referendum took place. Here I must say that Minister Vizjak is very well in the negotiations, both with the unions and not least with the opposition. But it is not our problem if you do not want to participate in this if you do not even respond to letters. That's not our problem, that's your problem. Perhaps it would be good to approach this package constructively, which is of exceptional importance. The second thing I want to say is that the Slovenian Democratic Party has had a clear position from the beginning in the previous mandate, in which case or under what conditions we will support the reform. For us, first of all, it was crucial that the government comply with the trade unions. The government mostly disagreed with the unions, so it went to a referendum. We're also different in something from you, colleagues and colleagues. We have also tabled, as regards pension reform and other laws in the previous term, I do not know how many comments and amendments, both for pension reform and for others. We differ in this, but the then coalition did not accept any of our amendments. But we persisted and invested them. You have even been invited — unlike us who were not in the previous term — to participate in the design of these reforms because it is good for all of us. I would ask Mrs Bratušek not to deal so much with her facial mimicry, because it will not help us all to breathe more easily in time. I would ask you to be more constructive and well-meaning in Positive Slovenia. I believe you're going to get through this, at least some of you, and you're going to realize that at this point it doesn't matter who's more guilty, who's less guilty, but how we get out of this situation. We must accept these reforms and that is essential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Roman Jakich, the replica. Probably not the gentler sex, but what she said about you. Maybe she didn't understand you very well. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u90	I just want something. Regardless of the threes and the frames, my colleague Irgl's debate is understandable, because in fact she must wash the bad news because last year she had a top priority on the same law. I'm speaking diametrically the opposite, and you've put yourself in a corner, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin, prepare the mag. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I personally support the law's solution that 40 years of work or retirement is a condition for retirement. This solution seems extremely good to me. I also gave the Minister my vision of pension reform, the principle of pension reform, and it is also written there, and some other things. The question is whether retirement will be sufficient for 60 years or 40 years, given that some countries, very developed countries, Sweden, etc., already accept significantly more acute conditions. So I think this is a good solution. Although the question is where has the historical chivalry of men been lost to take care of the family, to care for the children, to take care of the wife. In my opinion, men should have a slightly longer term than women for at least 3 years. At the same time, the dilemma of attitude towards the gentler sex would also fall away. Individual accounts don't seem like a good solution. Why not? By the way, what are we going to look at in those accounts? Money won't, we all know that today. In view of the developments in the future, that economic growth will continue to be negative or close to zero for a few years, the issue of filling the pension register is more topical than whether we will look at individual accounts. If I'm interested in how many contributions I have paid, I can ask for the information on the STIZ and get them. This may be a nice solution, but I don't think she'd bring anything. Above all, it will be possible to bring some more administrations, a little more red tape. As part of the pension reform, it will be necessary to adopt labour legislation that has a significantly greater impact than we think today. Why are we doing pension reform? In order to preserve pensions, to prevent the real value from falling and eventually to increase them, because they are largely unscrupulously low and do not allow people to live a decent life. Why are pensions so low? Because we don't create enough. We move in a vicious circle. We need to start with labour legislation and with measures to start the economy, we need to create more. Indeed, we can accept such a phenomenal pension reform, and we can all agree on it, but if there is no one to create, then we will have nothing to share, there will be nothing to take from. This is to those who have survived at least most of our lives in the economy, crystal clear. When we no longer had anything to share, what to take — these are problems and we are just ahead of these problems. Now the minister could still go for a billion and a few euros – how many times can he go so that we can pay our pensions so that we can pay our salaries in the public sector, how many more times? Not many times. That question seems to me to be a fundamental dilemma. That's what I'd like to say. Every time you accuse me that this government and this government have done well or that this government and this government have done bad, it seems unconstructive to me, it brings nothing. We all have to admit that in general we have been doing bad for 21 years, so now we are in these troubles. The charge is like living sand, getting faster and deeper and deeper into the quicksand [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] , from which we usually don't see a way out. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The word is from the Minister of Magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I would just like to add to this debate that it is true that 40 years of working time seems to be a visa for all these discussions taking place in Europe, a relatively acceptable condition. However, as has already been heard today, in particular from the debates of Members, it is unattainable in Slovenia. Indeed, despite this commitment or near this commitment, we still have a real retirement period of about 35 years. We're talking about old-age retirement, not early retirement and the like. Therefore, it is essential that within these 40 years of retirement, the effect and the measure be abolished by those circuits, those reliefs that reduce this retirement age. I believe that today at this first stage we do not need to discuss the extension of this period. However, as a result of the ageing of the population, we will surely need it in the future, and this will also be the subject of further discussions on the upgrades of the population. It is therefore necessary to remove the exceptions in the first phase, to remove all these reliefs, which reduce our retirement age by about 3 years by 2020. If we reach an increase in the retirement age of 3 years by 2020, we have done a great deal without causing people to be irritated in this period by such drastic predictions as, for example, raising the retirement age after 67 years or 43 years or something like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mag. Leila Hercegovac, prepare yourself a mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u96	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! Positive Slovenia and I will support the pension reform only if it is coordinated with all the social partners. I'm interested in the transitional period, the occupational pensions and the valorisation factor. The pension law, which was still in force and adopted in 1999, provided for a transitional period for women, which meant that the required age was extended by 4 months and a pension period by 3 months. A transitional period for the required pension period is expected to expire in 2012. After a new pension reform, at least after the proposed reform, the reform takes place immediately after its entry into force without a transitional period. So in 2012 a woman gets plus 6 years and in 2015 bad plus 7 years more. Your Honor, is there really a need for such a drastic leap without a transitional period? Second. Why is it that occupational pensions are not fully regulated in the pension law and that it is allowed for every single legislator to change the rules and rules of the game during the game itself? Occupational pensions are also pensions and it is right that the applicable pension law fully regulates them, as is the case with other pensions. What I'm most interested in is the valorization factor. Valorisation of monetary amounts should mean a re-evaluation of the amounts from past periods, to which value has dropped due to prices and inflation, so it should be higher than one. Please, honourable Members and Members, to look at the Rules on Valorisation Factors for the conversion of wages and insurance bases from previous years to the 2011 level of salaries and pensions and thus Article 2 on the valorisation factor and you will see – I cannot believe – that this valorisation factor in 1990 was 5,622, in 2001 4,437, by 2005 was at least a little more than 1. From 2005 to 2011, the country invented how, in what ways – I don't like the word, but I have to use it – steal or cheat 32.90 percent of the money every month for everyone who goes to retirement. From 2005 to 2011, the odds declined, and I ask you, Mr. Minister, why this valorization factor is still lower than the previous one, it was 0.755, and now we have 0.732. It's more important than that percentage for the pension calculation, and I'm not gonna talk anymore. How much less money will each of us get, please calculate for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Andrej Vizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u98	I am very grateful for this question, because the system of falling dosing percentages for each year is a percentage point and a half and a system of valorisation coefficients, which also slides down the formula, works the pension ever lower depending on the salaries of employees. This is a major problem that we want to tackle with this pension reform. We also freeze the dose percentage on the current value and valorisation coefficient. Moreover, we have come up with a compromise proposal to eliminate the valorisation factor or to make a net dose percentage, which means — which is technically the only acceptable and only valid — that we will have only one percentage, a dose percentage that will convert wages or base into pensions. This seems very important to me, given your debate. This is the added value of this reform – to stop the further decline in pensions. Why did the valorization coefficients go down? Because there was no reconciliation of pensions or lower in the past period. The valorisation factor reflects this particular decline and the valorisation factor would fall dramatically in the coming period if no pension reform was to take place. I would like to make the pension-wage ratio – we are talking only about those who are only about to retire – even lower significantly than it is now. That's a fact. This is stopped by a net dose percentage or by stopping the further decline of both the dose rate and the valorisation factor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potter. Procedural mag. Leila Hercegovac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u100	I propose a procedural proposal, Mr Minister, given that the proposal for a pension reform law is not in line with what you have just said, and you believe that it is so that you propose that the net percentages in the new pension reform will be net. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u101	Thank you very much. This was not a procedural proposal, but well, let's move on. Mag. Maja Potrat, prepare the mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, what you have given us as a chronic proof of the coalition's willingness to negotiate with the opposition about the three laws is ordinary sand in the eyes, because the fact is that the Government adopted three uncoordinated laws with the social partners on 17 October and sent you to the National Assembly, at the same time by special letter on 19 October, warned us that it had done so and then said if they were willing to talk about it. The coalition has made a general request for treatment in one way or another, and we are now talking. So much for that. All we could learn about these laws before October 17th was that the Social Democrats and their professional colleagues hunted the websites and searched various media, in particular printed. So much for that. I'm very sorry, Mr. Minister, because you can talk again about how we don't know, we don't know, and I don't know what else, because we can only rely on what is written, but we don't know what the final text of this law will be. We don't know anything. We have already experienced that the law can also be changed in the third reading and it has completely different consequences as originally thought. I consider the proposed law itself to be amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, but not reformary. I'll explain why. What was really linked to structural reforms was rejected at the referendums. The proposed and rejected law would have the opportunity to achieve the basic objective of halting the fall in pensions and ensuring the long-term sustainability of the pension fund. This law, which we now have before us, does not achieve this goal. Let me illustrate. On the 70th page of the text, it refers to the study referred to by Mr Minister – that by implementing the law in a form such as that provided for coalition coordination, it will ensure the short-term financial sustainability of the pension system by 2020, for 7 years, not long-term sustainability. But then came the corrections that had already been taken into account, the inclusion of children. I don't mind, just the financial consequences are a little bit worse. We have now heard some other things in the proposals that will also reduce sustainability. Let me warn you that the Finances have published – and also some other officer, so that it won't be a mistake to work for just one or only one commercial. The valorisation factor for this law is lower than that adopted in the previous year. The dosage of the pension base under this law is lower than that of the previous law, which was rejected by law. The only time you have given up a bit is the period that is counted or from which the pension base is calculated. This is 24 years after this law, since it was 27 years old, with the worst three years being eliminated. 27 minus 3 is still 24. That is why, Mr Minister, it is difficult for you to convince me that the fall in pensions will be halted because it remains at the same level as the current law does and does not go in the direction in which the previous law was proposed. But I can claim this law, which I have on the table in front of me, is sexist and ideological. First of all, why he's sexist. Because it has already been proven several times that women's pension conditions have deteriorated under this law. There has been a lot of talk about how reliefs will account for what will and will not be included, and it has been a warning of injustice to educated women. And I'm going to introduce you to another category of women. These are the women who started working 20 years ago and will be fully retired, 40 years old, at 56 to 59. After the previous marriage, their bonus would be one-on-one — one year’s extended work, one year’s bonus. Now these women will count one year of work, but only six months of consideration. The same will now be done for men. I'm talking about women who don't have a chance of falling because they're childless. I'm talking about this group of women. In view of what we have already said about how much more beneficial it is, I would remind you that the chief advocate of the failure to accept the previous law of the Pahor government, Mr. Tsukjat, wanted 11 years of study – because he wanted to take into account undergraduate and postgraduate studies throughout the length – could be included in the pension period. Mrs Tomc said, on behalf of the Group of Members, that no reform lasted more than 10 years, and then defended the IT calculation by now being a 25-year-old – asking how many 25-year-olds are now regularly employed – knew what kind of pension he would have. Figo fresco will know this because in the context of the reform, if it lasts 7 years, pension conditions will change, as you change the pension conditions of paragraphs 161 and 162 for the 44 categories of people. In doing so, it must be said that these are pensions and not what they are, but pensions established by other laws or even international treaties. There they are from the participants in the national liberation fight, victims of the Dachau processes, military pensioners, they could list everything for you. Then go look at article 408, what does it say to you – that this will be regulated by some law or other law, some of these pensions will be abolished, such as extraordinary pensions, some will be transposed into sectoral legislation. What kind of security do you provide, Mrs. Tomc, when you talk about how this law brings security to people's pensions? They will not have them because even those to whom they are already entitled will change, and I think this is unacceptable! Anyway, the marriage can't be rejected because of everything else, but you don't think [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Excuse me, mag. Tonin, I give the floor to Minister Andre Visiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u104	Some untruths need only be answered. None of the rights governed by Article 408, shall be deleted by this Act. I don't know where you found any rights deleted. It's not like that. You said earlier that some would be eliminated, precisely this formulation. I don't know, tell me which ones are going to be eliminated, and I'm really asking you which ones are actually going to be eliminated so that you know about them, and I don't. Dearly beloved, once again, believe me, if I have anything, I have documented correspondence with the opposition because I know you like to be ignorant. Once again, because Mr. Han is here. I am very pleased that you do not remember that we have sent you materials, all laws with comparison tables far before you receive them to the government. On 6 September of this year, we sent you materials based on a meeting of the presidents of the parliamentary parties, which was 22 years old. 8. Once again, it's not true what you're saying that you only got the material under your hand or I don't know how, before the government hearing. If you want, I can document it for you, just like I do. Now, just then you'll blush again. That's one thing. Second thing. Your Honor, when we sent this to you, 19. 10. We sent this to you on the basis of an agreement between the presidents of the parliamentary parties. We sent this to you on the basis of an agreement, and if that's not enough for you, fine. Along with the letter and the note that we are available to you for coordination and cooperation. I don't know what else we can do in good faith to reconcile solutions with the opposition. It is true that the text of the law is not complete, it is not harmonised either in the coalition or among the social partners, because the process of adopting such legislation is demanding. I therefore offer once again my call and my willingness to come to any parliamentary group to further explain the solutions, to substantiate them with calculations and to listen to your suggestions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, prepare Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u106	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today I was sure that we would be convinced in this Chamber that we would all have the same opinion and that we would find that the pension reform is indisputable, that it should be accepted and that this wagon should be pushed forward. I guess I was wrong. I also happened when my colleague Mrs Majda Potrata discussed, saw an article in Del where she and her colleague, Andreja Črnak Mglič, insisted that pension reform was necessary and that without this pension they would continue to fall and that the working time should be extended, etc. I felt as if I were reading my present - day position, which I presented as this speaker. Now I'd say next. If, in your opinion, this coalition is making all possible mistakes and everything is wrong, then at least you do not make the mistakes that this coalition can ever make. Now you are talking about supporting the reform that is necessary, but at the same time you have a bunch of comments. I just don't understand these things sometimes. It is normal for us to all comment that we are trying to improve them in the process. You're saying this pension reform is inconsistent. It would be unusual that it was already harmonised and that this would be just another ordinary formality, where things would be voted down and go, according to the local word, to the lycophagus. I think that all those of you who have been in this House for a very, very long time, you know that we have a democratic process that requires three hearings and that in these three cases there can be a lot of changes in the law, and that is why we have three hearings. These treatments are not just a show designed for ourselves to speak to each other in vain, but to improve the law on the basis of these discussions. I just don't understand this argument, especially if you think you're big Democrats. The fact that you weren't invited to the talks has already proved to you by the minister with the papers, and I think the matter is clear. On the other hand, colleagues in the Chamber say that demographic trends are inevitable. The urgent consequence is pension reform, and then I hear my colleague Klasinc, who says she calculated that after the new pension reform, she should work 4 years longer. Yeah, normally, if we live longer, we'll work longer. Colleague Barbara Žgajner Tavš is clear that this pension reform is socially insensitive, but in the same sentence it says that plagiarism is another pension reform, which was extremely good. Explain to me how this works. That ours is socially insensitive, but it's plagiarism that the other one that this government coalition rejected was terribly good. I don't understand these things. When colleague Frangež spoke about the need to give young people hope – I agree with that too, but if we continue to debate indefinitely and talk about how this pension reform is unnecessary, then we will simply come to the point that we will destroy this pension system and that there will be nothing left of this pension system that will not be worthy of pension. What young person will then decide to pay into the pension system? It's practically nothing. Nor is that essential difference to me – as I said, if you say that our pension reform is practically the plagiarism of Svetlik, but nevertheless it has two essential differences. The first is that we bet on 40 years of work while you're 65 years old. That's an essential difference. The other thing that is also important to me is that all non-retirement expenses are excluded from the pension allowance — the wide variety of budgetary allowances that individuals can be entitled to. My colleague Frangež here discusses as saying that these certain budgetary allowances are not eligible for expenditure incurred by individual pensioners. They are, but it is right to know clearly what a pension is and what a budget social transfer is to your pension. This is what this pension reform is all about. I hope that, despite all that, we will stop looking for a seam in a haystack to see positive things and support this pension reform.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I suggest to all that we are aware that today we have a general debate on the proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance. I also ask everyone not to be embroiled solely with other colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Tonin, you have mentioned at least 15 names from this Chamber and I do not think the debate is meant to do so. However, I would like to ask you to discuss the general debate on the bill. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic, prepare for Mr Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u108	Your Honor! This whole theatricality would not be necessary if the Government and the lawmaker first consulted and thoroughly combed the bill with the social partners, young people and not least coalition partners, before introducing the law into the parliamentary procedure. As we have been informed by the Minister, even coalition partners have not yet been harmonised. Why, then, such an impossibility to invest the law in the parliamentary procedure? Please. They would save me, myself, and many who watch this theater at home, listening to all these various unnecessary and even inappropriate statements. Mr. Visjak, you are addressing the pensioners as the position of these pensioners, the position of these people, as if they were Martians, the position of those, those. They are not what some people are, they are us, they are our children, they are our friends, our parents and all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. So please, when we talk, let's talk about us directly. This reform law is one of the key laws that has 429 articles and is a very inclusive law. What's interesting is that you weren't able to handle this law yourself inside the coalition first, so we wouldn't listen to you. Although I am pleased today – finally, for the first time in a year that the party DeSUS somehow imagined that they remembered who they represented here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The stability of the pension and disability system is a key indicator of the stability of the country and is at the heart of the social security of all citizens and citizens. Where does that show up? This is reflected in the satisfaction of these same citizens and citizens. We can't overlook that. Therefore, no one in this Chamber can oppose a reform change in the pension system, and changes are certainly necessary. But let this law be kind to all people who are entitled to a pension. We must not make any distinctions with this law and create unnecessary strains. They all paid in the pension box. Those who did not pay, however, proved otherwise and earned a pension. Therefore, we must be very careful and respectful of all who receive a pension in one way or another, for the pension is not the pension of every single government, the pension is not something someone makes up. Retirement is something that has been paid and earned in one way or another. I'm very surprised how you want all those who didn't pay for the pension fund to be eliminated if they didn't give anything. They've given more, they've given a lot more to work in this country, some even their lives. Then their heirs are entitled to a pension, those who have allowed us to be here today, in the temple of democracy. I'd like to call for a little more respect for all these people. The public financial sustainability of the pension fund will not be achieved if we interfere with each other. The mistake of every government, every time, is to deal too much with the consequences. No one dares to shudder or is very reluctant to shudder into the source of trouble and into the source of all evil. What's the problem? The problem is at work. A man needs a job and a fair pay for his job, a fair pay. We must provide the people of the Republic of Slovenia with work if we are to create continuity if we are to ensure that the hole in the pension box, which we are singing today, will not increase. That's why it's urgent. Absolutely. Continuity and one more continuity. We're talking about some intergenerational sustainability, solidarity, but it won't work if people don't have jobs. The economy needs to be developed today. It's been almost a year and we still haven't done anything to revive the economy. Jobs are shrinking from day to day. There are few individuals in the private sector who create new jobs. But they are in a minority compared to those who lose jobs, so this government has to do more. This government must start the economy and then any reform will be sustainable. The time of recession, the time of crisis, is not the time for reforms. Why? Because people know that their rights will only be reduced, but reforms are essential. Why this reform and all others were not adopted in the pre-crisis period, you have already replied many to me. I don't want to repeat myself. It's a shame you didn't take care of it when economic growth was as moderate as it was. It's hard today. Today we destroy the country with any law, and we must not be proud of laws that interfere with human rights. We are unable to create new jobs. But that's the key. The country of Slovenia is a rich country, lacking only a little more intelligence, a little more common sense. That's what we're missing. This country is not in crisis because of the lack of money, and this country is in crisis because it is not smart enough, does not have enough common sense and does not have enough knowledge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word is from the Minister of Magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u110	Dear Member! I hope that it is not the task of the government and Parliament to create jobs because they will cost a lot. The task of the government and Parliament is to create an environment in which the economy creates new jobs. The package of reform laws, which is now on the table and which is linked in this particular package to the rehabilitation of the banking system, to better governance of state assets, budgets for next year, is just that. These are also measures, in addition to many others that this Parliament has already adopted in this mandate to revive the economy. Dear Member, I speak very respectfully about the pensioners. If not, then these reforms would not be before you today. What is the purpose of this reform? What's a spontaneous scenario? A spontaneous scenario, if nothing happens, means that pensions will continue to fall and that the hole in the pension register and thus the stability of pension payments will be questionable. That's not what we want. We're responsible for handling this and solving it. We therefore propose this reform, for the first time, for regular payment of decent pensions. This is the goal of this pension reform – to stop the fall of pensions. I hope that with your help, with your suggestions, we will achieve this goal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Grill has the floor, Mr Franz Pukšič is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Minister, Secretary of State and all present! This law is not just a matter of a coalition, such as the debates between the opposition Members and Members can be seen from today's debate – that the coalition must first coordinate and then come to the National Assembly. The law, as we now consider, must be a matter for each of us, not only a Member, but for every citizen and citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. Sooner or later, everyone faces the rights and obligations of such a law. It would therefore be irresponsible to say now that the coalition should draw up a law, regardless of whether all the social partners and, finally, the opposition agree with this law. That would be ideal, but I'm sure this is impossible for such a subject. The opposition tells us how constructive it is to be involved in the drafting and handling of these laws, but these are just empty words, because the facts speak quite the opposite. Respected opposition, have you joined the development partnership? This offer was forwarded at the time of the government's appearance, and, as I am aware, the opposition did not detect that they were ready. In this case, any law that is being drawn up could be constructively co-operated, commented, and finally, I am sure that the debate would then be much more constructive than it is today. For this law, Minister Vizjak had previously made a strong argument, by means of documents, proving that he was timely at the time when the matter was in the stage that the opposition could also be involved. It was forwarded to both opposition parties and it was not invited that Minister Vizjak, together with his colleagues, would present those key starting points of this law with calculations, tables illustrating the projection that such legislation could bring forward. In some debates, however, it is reflected that Members and Members of this Law have not read enough, not all the goals or solutions in this law, but speak generally, with some populism and a strong rejection that these solutions, which are now in this law, are poor. You're saying that this marriage is the plagiarism of the previous law that fell at the referendum and that we're moving now. All those who have served in this House in the previous term will surely remember the debate of the Magi. A visionary who was then an opposition MP. He made it very clear that many of the solutions in the law prepared by the previous Government and Minister Svetlik were good – he welcomed them, he supported them, not just him, the entire SDS Group. Unfortunately, some of those solutions were unacceptable to us and, last but not least, to social partners and trade unions. It is not clear that you are now at fault that at the referendum, where this law was rejected by 72% against, the SDS is the one who contributed such resistance to this law. It could probably have been adopted unanimously by everyone in Parliament, and it would certainly have fallen at the referendum, because people in those solutions recognized that that law was certainly unfair. He wasn't fair. In particular, a number of groups were affected. We have already advocated this law, especially this solution, that it is a key working time that everyone must have in order to be able to enforce a full pension. At that time, we warned that the key lever must be held, but the previous legislation did not have it. In this marriage, that's the key. This is what I believe is fair, and I believe that people will also understand and support – that it is only on the basis of the contributions paid that it is possible to expect payments from the pension fund, because it is an insurance relationship. It is not a matter of some rights that some of these cash registers also receive, but that these rights should be paid out from other funds, which the state budget also has, not to be deprived of in an unfair, unfair way of those people who have paid 10, 20, 30, 40 or even more years into the pension register. If our country, Slovenia, and even before the relationship between the retired and the active, with those contributions paid, were to be prudent in order to invest in some such institutions that could then nominate this money, I am sure that today we would not have the problems we have. At that time, that money, as mentioned above, was used for various investments from Cankarjev home, for various, especially political, projects, instead of investing for a later period, because 50 years ago the demographic picture was known to be significantly more unfavourable for such a pension system every few years. Unfortunately, they did not want to know, nor did they. Soon we arrived at a time when we barely covered what had to be paid out of this cash register with the contributions paid to this cash register, and we have also exceeded this, because today a billion euros and a half, which is almost 30% of the total cash register, must be invested in this pension fund by the budget. And that's the fear that's worried about all of us. You say that this law discriminates against young people and that this law does not provide solutions for young people. It is also explained by Minister Vizjak that he does not hold that young people are invited to these meetings, interviews, coordination, but, in doing so, hand to heart, we must all be aware that no law can certainly be in force or in such a form for more than 7, 10 years, because demographic, economic and varied images will certainly change then and will then have to be changed. Young people are certainly going to have to propose new solutions to the new situation in a few years’ time, or those who will then be in such a position. I hope and wish that the next legislative changes, if we can save our country in order to truly revive the economy, increase economic growth, increase the contribution to the pension fund so that our treasury can provide higher pensions to existing pensioners who are certainly deserving and we can all just thank them that Slovenia is where it is, because only on the basis of the past work we have achieved this. Unfortunately, many of them are now victims of poor measures or poor management of their money. I also agree with those who find that this law is also a little harsher for the women's population. I agree with that. I am aware that women in every society, including us, receive or should be given special attention, as they have a special role not only in motherhood but also in many other ways. I am also sure that women in our society are also very responsible and will either agree or at least agree with some solutions that will also bear a little more burden on them. I am sure that there is none or are rare who have been irresponsible and would say, "No, this must not touch us, we must look for such a solution, so that the opposite sex in particular will have slightly more acute conditions." I'm sure there's solidarity here, both between women and men. Therefore, in today’s debate, I would expect some solutions to be cited, some arguments to draw attention to those shortcomings or perhaps even hidden things that many who have read the law twice, three times, do not see – that they are here to be pointed out. I am confident that the Secretary of State or the Minister, or probably those who are the drafters of this law, will be happy to record these matters, examine them, and try to take them into account. Finally, the social partners, because more heads know and there will probably still need to be a lot of meetings, coordination to get consensus. Not full consensus, that's impossible, that's never gonna happen. But if it is the responsibility of all to make this consensus with the knowledge that this law cannot bring more rights, shorter working hours, higher pensions – if anyone expects this consensus, the answer is certainly already in advance that there will be no such consensus. But if we look together for the right solutions, we are aware of the responsibilities of us who will decide on this law, to the unions, to the other social partners, I am sure that by the next treatments that will take place next month, we will be looking for an acceptable solution, that this important reform, or this law, which is part of this reform package, will be successful in providing higher pensions for the future, and above all the key measures that the international financial institution will also know to take into account that our ratings on this basis will begin to grow slightly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor, Mr Jožef Jerovšek is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Vice President! The essence of any pension reform is to make pensions as high as possible and to ensure that pensioners enjoy pensions as long as possible. This is where the debate should go. Why are we tightening the conditions today? Some said that this law was made for a shorter period than the previous Svetlikov. In fact, it is not for a shorter period, I think, even for a longer period, but I hope that we can change it in a shorter period, of course in a positive sense, so that we will raise pensions and conditions of retirement, but not lower. It is important that we also have a transitional period in this law. Why are we in a situation like this today? Now in the church they call it "Matthew" or I don't know which saint. I'll tell you why. So, a note by the president of the Social Democrats, Luksic. He's right, and I agree with him. Because the ruling, the liberals, and then the realists — and today a significant part of the so - called Positive or I have already marked them as Negative Slovenia — have brought this country into collapse in its time of rule, to total ruin. The European funds 2007-2013 were not used because you did not know this, because you wanted to have a prestigious fight with each other. Now it's going to be very difficult to do this, but it's going to be 2 billion euros hanging in the air. You've taken the unemployed to 60,000 only home, and 60 have sent them back to other Yugoslav countries, and more recently than one highway cross. What happened when Marjan Podobnik — where the golden times are — Vice President of the Government is also in your rule. That's when we introduced state pensions, and I hope we do it again. If this government coalition will be in power for at least one eight years, then we will certainly be able to do so in the second term, because we will create conditions because we create conditions for new jobs, but you cannot destroy everything at every turn. You know that you've been doing bad, now let us fix this, that people will have some more of it, and then you'll come to power again when the table is full again, and then the pensions and the conditions for retirement can be improved. You know, I kind of feel like in Positive Slovenia you're talking about supporting the law, supporting it in the first reading, and on the other hand, I feel like you're squeezing union bosses to go back to the referendum, etc. But when they didn't listen to your smooching, then five minutes before nightfall, you were doing discarded acts with those signatures. This action was also rejected in the National Assembly, with signatures, and I would expect [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor, Mr Matjaž Zanoškar is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! The pension reform is certainly one of the biggest structural reforms, as regular reforms, in this country. This is an almost eternal question in this independent Slovenia and forever on the wallpaper. With my history in the National Assembly, I recall Mr Rob's first pension reform, which at that time, along with the then government majority, ensured that this is a very long-term solution that will ensure the sustainability of the pension fund for decades. Unfortunately, they misjudged the demographic movements in Slovenia. In fact, we cannot say regrettably that we live longer, thank God that we live longer, but this has brought with it certain consequences that this pension law must change. Mr Rob was not too happy at the time when he was Secretary of State for Privatisation, there was a privatisation hole when he was Minister for Social Affairs and Labour, there was a hole in the pension register when he went to the finance ministry and there was a hole in public finances. So he was the minister of three holes in public cash registers. Now, in my opinion, Minister Vizjak has drawn up a good law, a good reform. I see we're just listening here today in this congregation. I am pleased to see Members react in their reactions to many as a magician. A ton before. This means that we listen and have to argue with each other in order to make the best reform possible to confront our opinions. That's the only way we get the synergy, the good marriage. I am surprised, however, that in the Group of Positive Slovenia – otherwise not in general – because you are aware that something needs to be changed – you are opposed. I must say that I was in the parliamentary group when Svetlik's reform was internal at the time to abstain from voting because I somehow assessed that this was necessary, but they convinced me that it was possible to make a better law and I see that they were right. This law brings many improvements and more rapid and better effects than the previous Svetlik law, and I therefore wonder whether you gave up your presidential candidate, Mr Türk, who explicitly praised Minister Viszak, his laws and his efforts. Looks like you gave him up after the first round. This is one of the contradictions, like the other, which has been repeatedly mentioned as plagiarism, but at the same time the worst. That's the criticism of the former government, if that's what we're talking about. Demographic movements, the economic crisis, which has taken more than 10,000 jobs, are presupposeing a change, as payments are significantly lower. Even under the conditions of the conjuncture, the pension fund was threatened, but today, if we do not do something urgent, there may be a bankruptcy of the pension fund. This is not what we want, and we will not send a message to the pensioners that we do not think about them and that we will leave them to events as they will run on their own. We all owe it to each other to do something, and that's what we're gonna do. However, we must not do the historical wrong that was done in the previous term, when 15,000 women and old women who had just received a so-called state pension at a later age were taken. But this is the historical injustice of the former government, which is incredible, which means that the power centers of the left hand do not think or defend about deprived people. It's always been like this. Sometimes they tried to convince them that it was good for them if they took their last penny out of their pocket, but the fact is that it was a historical injustice, and there was no excuse. The fact is, we have to resolve the pension fund in the long term and resolve that pensions will be provided. At the same time, it is clear that the most ready will be when we open jobs in this country when young people, graduates and everyone else, are given jobs. All the reforms put on the table in the National Assembly are intended for this very purpose. It seems to me that this terrible opposition on your part is self-destructive towards this nation, that it is suicidal, because you would have mellowed everything and you're not prepared to admit the good, except when someone admits that Minister Visjak has made a good law, and you're giving it up today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor, and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. Given the amount of time I have, I'm not gonna start a history story and remember things that have been in the past. However, I know that in order to adopt reforms as important as pension reform, there have been probably better times and better times. Above all, when economic growth was 6%, 7% or even higher, it would probably be very reasonable to accept such a reform. There were still opportunities, even a little over a year ago, but even then it didn't work. Today we are faced with the fact that this is an imperative, that this is a necessity, that this is a requirement if we are to maintain this pension system if we are to maintain the reputation of our country at the level it is. No more jokes today. That is why I would say that the moment in which we accept pension reform is good. On the one hand, we all want to ensure the sustainability of the pension system, we all hear the attacks and warnings of the European Union and the financial institutions of Europe. Finally, today is also an appropriate moment because the opposition is constructive and ready to negotiate, to negotiate and to co-form this important reform, as represented by the pension reform. There are many opportunities and many opportunities to come to the end of this pension reform. As we have already said, all things are not good, they are not acceptable to us. Even after negotiations with the social partners, some gaps are likely to open up, but all these gaps can be covered and somehow remedied by finding better solutions that will be good and acceptable for the coalition and also for the opposition. The question is, however, when Minister Vizjak says that pension reform will cause pensions to stop falling. The sustainability of the pension system also promises that the 200,000 pensioners on the threshold of poverty today will live better. But these are promises that are hypothetical. Hypothetically because all these promises are conditioned by economic growth and things that are happening in the economy. From this point of view, we can say that pension reform is a secondary part of all these reforms. The primary part is the economy and the new jobs, and if this is not the case, it is clear that the pension reform, whether by the opposition or the coalition, will not produce the desired results. However, I am interested, and I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether there has been any analysis of the possible side effects of this reform when it is adopted. Will this reform affect the labour market? Will this reform affect the rise in unemployment? Will it affect this — as the working hours of the employees increase — so that young people do not get a job, as they do today? Is it possible, then, to a greater extent, that more job seekers will be present? Well, it's a lot of things. At the same time, I would like to stress once again that the pension reform has already begun with the adoption of the ZUJF. It has already begun by reducing the rights of those pensioners, 26,000 pensioners, to whom we have reduced the rights derived from past legislation. Therefore, I think it would be right for such injustices, including the coordination of pensions, as required by one of the coalition parties, to put these elements and these mechanisms in place in the overall pension reform now that there is an opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat, 35 seconds, prepares for Mr Janez Vasle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I have quite a few comments on this marriage, but since I am limited in time, I will only say the following. First of all, youth issues. We've heard a lot about student work today, etc. I'd add to the problem of young people who have a job, but they don't get a job. Where are they going to look for a job when they want to retire? Another time. In this reform, women are sacrificed. We've heard a lot about this today. I agree with Mr Vogrin, Mrs Potter and Mr Grill's debate, and I repeat that it is not fair that we have equalised women to men. We know that a woman does double work in her active life, both at work and at home, at home, at home, at child rearing, etc. I would also like to draw attention to the control of employers who do not make contributions. We're gonna have to do more here. It's about paying for your contributions. We should tie up those who can do it today. Here, among other things, I am referring to the religious communities, especially the Roman Catholic Church, which has received huge sums of property back in denationalisation procedures, and I think it is one of the greatest dignitaries in our country. As such, it has income in its management and would be able to pay for religious servants in the pension register. I've talked about this a couple of times, and I think that's something to be warned about. Of course it is. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj is giving up. The word is Mr. Jože Tanko. Prepare the mags. Truda Cinderella.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. President-in-Office. We have before us a package of three laws — the first of which is the pension reform — which represent an important part of the reforms proposed by this Government. I have to say, I think it's trying to over-politicize these laws, or it's too much of a stumbling block, and it's much less of a fact. If we want to make some concrete, radical changes in the situation in the country, if we want the public financial image and also the perspective of the Republic of Slovenia to improve significantly, then something needs to be done in this area, and the proposal before us is part of and is prepared in this way. While there is a type of perception that the law is not in line with the social partners. This law, which is now being tabled, is already aligned with the social partners at this stage to a significantly higher level than the pension reform of the previous Government at the end of the procedure. I think all these readings are very incorrect. As the negotiations took place in the previous mandate, we were able to follow up. A number of union statements on the quality and method of implementing reforms are known, and not least some coalition members, even the current coalition ministers, have commented on the way in which pension legislation is coordinated. What was said by the current President of Social Democrats, the current Minister of Government, was not encouraging for the process of adopting the current Svetlik pension reform. Unfortunately for this concept, this approach has also been taken by the current President of the Government, who, out of rhetoric, is highly interlinked with regard to the approach to problem solving, but was exclusive, both to trade union partners and to the opposition. The opposition could not reach the draft bill in the previous term, nor was it given the opportunity to participate in the development of solutions at other stages of the law. The coalition was now extremely exclusive and it is not surprising that the reform ended as it ended. Let me just remind you that the Constitutional Court has also ruled on the previous reform, because the then coalition has sent the union's request to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court unanimously decided that there was no reason not to hold a referendum on pension reform. Another feature was that pension reform – it was not supposed to have any real effects until 2015 or 2016. In the meantime, almost two mandates would have occurred before anything indigenous could be achieved. I think that the effects of this reform, and also the concept of the layout, are made much more logical, especially because this reform is based on working age and is directly linked to the contribution it makes to the employee's pension fund. I think that's the basis of everything. It is not a problem of how old someone is, the problem is how long he has worked during this period and how long he has contributed to the pension fund. Other things can be arranged in a different way. An important decision is that this pension reform will be divided or that this pension system will be divided into two parts. One on what is directly linked to contributions and the other on the basis of different decisions and is not directly linked to working time. It is right that those arrangements are regulated in the field laws and that appropriate mechanisms are otherwise established there. For this part of the unpaid contributions, according to the necessary fund, pensions of all those eligible for full or slightly reduced pensions based on working age may be adjusted accordingly. I don't know why this was such an important problem that was not resolved in the previous term. I don't know why. But if anything, then this has to be settled now that we have this thing in front of us. It also seems good for us to get an information insight into the contributions paid, including to see what is happening in our pension account — or those who are obliged to make contributions do so — so that after a certain period of time, after something has changed, there are no surprises for the one who is supposed to receive a pension or this payment to his account. It seems to me that we are now in the stage of deciding whether this reform is continuing the process in the National Assembly, and that we will also get proposals from those who have somehow not responded to the Minister's initiative to have a preliminary discussion on the solution to this pension reform, and that we will then find, even with the consent or cooperation of the economic and social partners, some better solutions than those now proposed. I think this process will run well enough. It is going well, and I also expect that this process will be completed in time for the National Assembly and that it will be possible to put into effect at the beginning of next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Most of the parliamentary groups are running out of time, and I have little trouble with the list. Mr. Joseph Horvath is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister, Secretary of State! In opening, I would like to say that I will support the proposal to conclude that the matter we are talking about today is suitable for further consideration. Government or Minister of Mag. Andrej Vizjak has obviously given us good material, and through this debate today, at least in my opinion, I find that we have collected quite a few suitable stones from which a beautiful mosaic could be made out there in this year's adventurous time, which would be called ZPIZ-2. It is true that in Slovenia pension reform has a very colorful history. It is also true that it is accompanied by various blockades, as some steps have been unsuccessful in the past. This is certainly an extremely complex and responsible material, and we do not read only the legal material, the marriage text, but also read various comments. Among other things, I find the European Commissioner for Employment and Social Affairs, Mr Lászl Andor, who assessed that Slovenia is not exactly exemplary in reforming the pension system and that it is not as ambitious as other countries in Central Europe. I think we need to take this warning seriously, especially when this Commissioner says that it is primarily the task of politicians in the country to draw attention to the remarkable importance of pension reforms in individual countries. I wish we had the same happiness and circumstances in which the Poles changed pension laws. A few days ago, I was at a reception organised by the Polish Ambassador, as well as within the Group of Friendships with Poland, as well as in interviews with the Slovenian Ambassador in Poland, we were able to find that the Polish had recently increased their age to 67 years. They were protests, they were opposition to unions, but not like us. That's mostly what I want to point out. I fear widespread blockades by trade unions in Slovenia. And for the record, I'm in favour of the union movement, but not at the expense of jobs. In Poland, unions also surrounded parliament when the MPs passed the law and the unions simply walked home. I would also like to point out that when we talk about rights, we also need to discuss responsibilities at the same time, and until justice and responsibility, responsibility, in particular, go hand in hand, there will be no good intergenerational dialogue and a sustainable pension system. Since my hour is plaguing, I would like to highlight in this first reading, as it has already been said, that I will support the proposal for a reform of pension insurance, as changes in this area, as set out in our electoral programme and in our coalition agreement, are urgently needed. We in New Slovenia expect and propose that the system of child-based retirement bonuses remain the same as in the current PPIZ-1. Moreover, there remains a progression according to the number of children, a bonus is deducted from 65 years of age, enforcement must not be limited, and the right of fathers must remain based on an agreement between the father and the mother, with the mother having the advantage. We also want this pension reform to contain some elements of good family policy. Finally, when we are talking about pension reform, we are saying that it is necessary because we have catastrophic demographic trends. This is not only a problem for Slovenia, it is also a problem for the whole European Union, and I think it is imperative that we pay very close attention to family policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvath, you don't have a set hour, but it's counting down time for all of us, and that's true. Mrs. Romana Tomc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that today's debate in this Chamber has shown that we are all united on something, both the coalition and the opposition, that this pension reform is absolutely necessary. We are not talking anymore about whether this pension reform is necessary or unnecessary, but we are talking about whether it is urgent right now and now. In today's debate, I have been mentioned many times, and, I must say, I am very pleased to have raised in my debate some comments that I have to say that some have been so that I can even agree with them and some have gone in the wrong direction. I think these comments reflect to a large extent the lack of knowledge of the system. Let this not sound bad – here we are not all top experts in the pension system, but we are Members and Members with average knowledge of this area, and so many people may also be affected by some professional error. But it's pointing to something. This indicates, above all, the extreme complexity of our pension system, one of its major weaknesses. I hope that, once again, this pension system will be less complicated, clearer, and that each of us will be able to calculate our own pension. Ask yourself, your acquaintances, whether anyone in Slovenia today who is not employed in the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance and who is not an expert in this field can calculate his pension on his own. I'm sure you don't, and this area will have to be rectified in time. One of the steps we are taking in this direction is certainly an informational calculation for each individual, where everyone will be able to receive information at any moment, how much contributions he has paid, what his pension base is, and what kind of pension he can expect from it. Contrary to some of my colleagues who have mentioned this as a minor matter, this seems crucial to encouraging young generations to realize how important it is to pay into a pension box in case this money and this pension are needed at an old age. Today, however, we have by no means touched on other areas of the pension law, especially the part relating to compulsory insurance — or professional insurance mentioned several times. I do not think it is possible to ignore it, and it is clear that, regardless of what this pension system is like and this pension law, it will be necessary to take care of its security at the age of an additional pension. This part also changes in this law and allows these savings, which are collected today in insurance companies, banks, pension companies, to be charged more effectively. These are the rules that this law makes possible. I would return again — because this seems very important to me — to the reasons for rejecting the pension reform of the previous Government and to the differences that this Government has made with this law. The unions were those who launched the referendum, not the Slovenian Democratic Party. But we opposed some of the professional solutions that were in that law, and we proposed many of our solutions, and we worked constructively, although never — unlike what the Government has done now — we were not invited to cooperate. All we had was the possibility of making some changes through the amendments. The first time I saw a document dating back to 25. 9. 2009 and I have it right here in front of me, where the former Government presented the starting points for a new pension reform, I was looking forward to getting such a pension law. This document is extensive and I cannot fully summarize it, but there is something we can do to get out of it. They say that this pension reform will go in two steps, with the first set of solutions, including the social cap, including the gross pension system, and that we will be 1. 1. 2015 get a brand new, renewed pension system based on – you will not believe – colleagues from Social Democrats – a system of compulsory pension insurance of supposed pension accounts. This was the starting point that we all looked forward to together, but of these promises then there was virtually nothing, and we got a law that in particular made conditions worse in all areas, tightened conditions and was sustainable, as you say, until 2025. Now I am facing a strange situation here, where you say on the one hand that this pension reform is more drastic than it was before, but on the other hand it only brings a few minor corrections and is only sustainable for seven years. Now it will probably be necessary to decide whether this pension reform is more human-friendly — and I say that it was — whether it was you who proposed it — and I say it was not. This is proved by all the calculations, all the data and, finally, by the content of the law. As I said in my opening statement, people are usually afraid of change because we don't know what they're bringing us. People usually fear for their own safety, for their pensions, for whether or not solidarity will exist in today’s system. I guarantee that solidarity with this law, with this pension reform, is not distorted in any way. In several places, this solidarity is built in. On the one hand, we have unlimited contributions. Regardless of salary, everyone pays at the same rate and the height up is in no way limited. On the other hand, we have a limited pension downstairs, but not uphill, which means that those who have higher contributions who have higher wages also pay contributions to those who have lower wages. Although someone with a low salary has spent his whole life paying and has not reached a minimum limit to obtain a decent pension, this system guarantees him and will continue to guarantee him. Solidarity is also embedded in many, many other areas and is not threatened in anything. We all know what has been mentioned many times today that these solutions that we have before us today are not definitive solutions. It seems to me that the Government has submitted a law to the National Assembly that coordination procedures in the National Assembly are carried out in conjunction with coordination with the social partners. All were invited, including young people, older ones, not to talk about unions, employers. Many meetings, as far as I can monitor them, are going in the direction that eventually the solution that they will take together will be the one that will be best for all. This solution will be to get a pension system that will last for at least a few years. I still argue that it is enough to sustain a bad decade, because then it is imperative that the system always be renovated. In addition to being financially sustainable, which is one part of the system that must be provided, this system will also provide deserving pensions to those who are currently on the verge of receiving them and provide stable pensions to those who already receive them. One of the major innovations of this system, which must be pursued primarily by those who have paid fair payments to the pension system all the years, is that pension funds are cleared of all those expenses that do not belong to the pension system. This is also part of solidarity, for this system ensures solidarity between those who pay fair wages in the system. For those who have not paid in the system, the legislation ensures that they receive their benefits, but from another cash register, not from the pension register. For if they receive from the pension register – I remind you once again of your repeated claims that the budget provides a pension fund of EUR 400,000 – this would not be the case and there would not be such pressure on the deterioration of conditions if those expenses were not included in the pension fund, elsewhere. In this cleansing of the pension register, I see one big, big added value that we all have to look forward to. The easiest thing is to have a system that doesn't know who's drinking or who's paying. It's not about taking away anyone's rights, it's about making the system transparent, everyone knows what they're paying for and what they're getting out of it. This is something that allows contributions. But if we're talking about throwing everything into one cash register and sharing it just like that, then, dear colleagues and colleagues, we're talking about taxes. In this place, however, we have a pension allowance, pension contributions resulting from past work, and from this past work and contributions paid, everyone rightly expects that, at the time when he has completed the conditions for retirement, he will have something out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask the Minister of Mags for a word. Andrea Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u128	Your Honor! One of the main objectives of this pension reform is also to prevent the further decline in pensions. Let me get you some information. The ratio between the average net salary and the average age pension fell from 75.3% in 2000 to 63.1% in 2011 due to the implementation of the current pension reform. In 11 years, 11%. 11% of the lower pension is paid by those who retired in 2011 in the same job as those who retired in 2000. Moreover, during the same period, average pensions fell from 68.1% to 61.6% of the average wage. Respected, if the PPIZ-2, this law that is before us today, will not be adopted, we will have an additional 5% drop in average pensions on the average wage by 2024 until the end of the current pension reform. This is more than a sufficient argument to accept pension reform and stop the fall in pensions. Moreover, let us make the system sustainable to the extent that each additional year of work is known on a pension. Because of the civilizational achievement that our age limit rises or that we live longer, we also have this effect of receiving a longer pension. In 11 years, women were extended their pension by 4 years and 7 months. In the same 11 years, the pension for men increased by 1 year and 7 months. I don't think it's necessary to explain why we're equating pension conditions for men and women after transitional periods. Through pension reform, we want to achieve an increase in retirement age in order to maintain or not to extend the period of retirement according to the rise in age or life expectancy. That's the basic goal. At the same time, we want to make this longer work a higher pension. Ladies and gentlemen, this year we have a year of intergenerational cooperation and solidarity. We have the results of studies that say that poverty among pensioners is increasing. Why? Because they retired earlier and with much more miserable pensions. This is what we want to go beyond by raising the retirement age and by tying it mainly to 40 years of work. That is why we want people to have a decent pension. If we achieve this, after the transitional periods the pension will be higher, of course, for about two years longer work. This is an essential objective, not because of the economic crisis, but because of demographic changes and longer lifespans. We estimate that we can do this for a certain period in such a way that we can upgrade it with economic activity and believe that we will have to reshape the pension system in the coming decade.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u129	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. The proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration will be decided in the framework of the vote, on Thursday, 15 November, 15 minutes after the end of the 6th item of the agenda or in the morning at 9 a.m., in case the agenda of the meeting is exhausted tomorrow, on Wednesday. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the regulation of the market. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. With regard to this bill, a group of 45 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister of Mags. Andrei Vissiak. Excuse me, Secretary of State, Mrs. Patricia Chular.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u130	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A nice greeting to all of you! I am introducing a new law on labour market regulation, the objectives of which are three in particular. The first objective is to achieve greater flexibility in the labour market. These tasks are introduced in such a way that both unemployed persons over 50 years of age and pensioners are able to manage the so-called temporary and occasional works. Similarly, greater flexibility with the proposed novelty is enabled by the possibility of registering workers in the employment prospectors' register at the time of the cancellation period. This allows a worker who enters into a termination agreement with the employer to make use of the time limit for finding a new job, a new job, and that the time when he comes to the employment office should the time come as short as possible. The new law also aims to reduce the unemployment trap for unemployed people. At the moment of the economic crisis, the difference between the minimum wage of employees and the remuneration received by the unemployed is too small. The European Union measures the unemployment trap indicator or what is the motivation for those in the unemployment register to enter the labour market at all, what is the difference between social security benefits and between pay for work. Slovenia has an extremely high unemployment trap, so we are trying to reduce it with this amendment of the law. The third main objective of the proposed novel is to remove administrative barriers. We propose to abolish the obligation to apply for a job. Employers have highlighted this as an obstacle, and many have been deceived by job seekers. At the Employment Office, the employer is obliged to publish a vacancy where he is able to indicate whether it is only a compulsory publication or actually looking for employment. However, the unemployed often warn that they are advertised to such employers who have announced the need for staff and who have not indicated that it is only a mandatory publication and then find that these jobs are already agreed in advance. We therefore think that this is an administrative burden for employers who have already found their staff in advance and we leave the obligation to publish vacancies in the public sector and in public companies. These are the three key objectives of the proposed amendment to the Labour Market Regulation Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will begin by congratulating Minister Visiak, not just Minister Visiak, the whole government. It has a fantastic timing and an excellent political strategy, but I wonder who, apart from the government, benefits from it. Did you ask yourself why the extraordinary session came from yesterday to today? No, this government doesn't allow coincidences. Why is there an urgent need today, this week? You will not believe on Saturday the protests announced by the unions, the protests against the abolition of the social state, in order for the government to support capital. But also, this meeting comes to the government, absolutely, because the government will also be able to tell the unions how the opposition has been lagging for urgent reforms, for pension reform and, finally, for labour market reform. Bravo. The government will absolutely achieve its purpose, with the aim of destroying the purpose of Saturday's protests. But already seen, nothing new. On a recent visit to one of the Asian countries, which behaves with more than 3% of GDP growth, I have seen the phenomenon of brainwashing with collective competition ideology at all costs. This ideology of collective competition is reflected in the 12th or even the multi-hour workshop. There are no days off, no paid leave, no paid pensions from the compulsory insurance system do not allow retirement, no social security in case of illness, no parental protection as we know it. They only have the best options or I'd rather say the richest. It's a neoliberal mantra ordered by corporations. The pace dictates the market, exclusively the market. On the other hand, this country faces one of the highest rates of suicide among young people and one of the lowest fertility rates. No, thank you. That's not the system we want. Why am I telling this story? The Minister of the Government, without making any mistake, was not Minister Visjak, had already suggested that we should take on just such an Eastern spirit and accept that we will be paid less than 48% of the current salary for the same work in 7 years. The reduction of production costs as the main argument of the reform, which the worker considers from the perspective of an excessive cost to the employer and therefore the main culprit for the economic situation – this is simply not right, to say the least. How many times have we heard about the previous marriage, and I believe we'll still hear the word "cost"? Pensioners are a cost, the cost is children, the cost is mothers, the unemployed and the cost are workers. In recent times, I have seen how to invest in machines instead of in people — because we are saving here — to invest in machines that add value to businesses — machines. A worker is a cost that needs to be reduced. Just for the record, one of the statistics that takes place in these days is the economic report, which says: "In Slovenia, there is over-average taxed consumption, comparatively taxed work and under-average tax capital." Once again, in Positive Slovenia, we do not agree with the logic of the neoliberal concept and measures, which, according to top economic experts, are mainly focused on saving, decomposing the social state and reducing labour costs. This is not the development concept the country needs, that's before, I can say, dying on meals. The proposal for a labour market regulation law, according to the assessment of Positive Slovenia, has no guarantee of achieving objectives such as the elimination of duality, such as a smaller segmentation in the labour market, such as greater employability and not least, such as new jobs. Today, the Minister made it very clear at the previous point that it is not the task of this Government to create new jobs, because this would be too much of a cost for the country. Do you really believe, colleagues and colleagues, that with the proposed solutions under both labour market regulation laws, you will be able to curb the trend of brain drain and employ about 9,000 young people who are currently unemployed? No, no, no. As long as laws such as the Public Finance Balance Act are adopted as long as the Savings Strategy is adopted instead of the Development Strategy, there will be no new jobs. That's how long we're going to be facing the outflow of young people from our country. I will tell you just two measures that have been taken in the past with a view to restructuring the economy or higher economic growth, and for these two laws or one of these laws, the current Government is also in more or less the same composition – reducing the burden or the level of employers' contributions and, second, gradually reducing or abolishing the tax on paid wages, with a view to raising economic growth. What did we get? We've got the tycoons and a different picture of the social distribution of capital. We've also received a new distribution. Today, I believe no one can deny it. These are concepts that have been very visually shown if you have recently read the very popular Doctrine of Shock. The moral credibility of the system has been compromised. Tell me who can identify with this savings development model. People? It's hard. Such a model cannot therefore be economically effective and even less so can be socially fair. As we look at labour market reform, we need to draw the guidelines wider. The government emphasises the principle of flexible security in labour market reform or specifically in the labour market regulation law. Once again, the principle of flexible safety. In the Group of Positive Slovenia we advocate safe flexibility, because flexible security means dangerous flexibility. You're turning security into a danger, your respectable colleagues and your colleagues. With what? Also by further reducing unemployment benefits. During the first three months when a person is registered as a registered unemployed person, a job seeker, you justify this because it has been shown that the percentages raised in the previous term were at the expense of greater social security for the unemployed, and they have had a disstimulating effect that people did not go from unemployment to active employment. Don't joke! In our country, we face daily how economic operators are shutting down, how jobs are being abolished, and you see an increase or increase in unemployment in a measure that has had a positive impact on the social security of the unemployed by the State. It is not true that the unemployed have too much money from the state. I'll tell you a story. There's been a thought leap. Yesterday I drove in a car and listened to Radio Slovenia's story of a single parent family. Mother was alone with three children. She lost her right or ran out of her right to a financial social allowance, she doesn't get a job. Not because this person would be irresponsible because he would not like to do it. No, no, no. Just because this person doesn't get a job. I'll tell you more irony, the shame of this country. This four-year-old mother and three-year-olds depend only on a child allowance of €350. Why doesn't he get cash social assistance? Due to bureaucratic obstacles at social work centres. This person is not irresponsible because he daily walks with buckets of water because they have turned off their water at home. Today, however, we view the unemployed as irresponsible because they do not want to look for jobs because of their money - support or compensation, which is too high. Dear colleagues, are we truly responsible policy? Responsible to who? I argue that merely reducing security while increasing flexibility will not regulate the labour market in the long term. However, it can have significant consequences for the employment of new generations. Believe it or not, these generations of unemployed or new generations looking for their opportunity in the labour market are also examples that I mentioned a little earlier. If you'll excuse me, I'll briefly summarize just a few of the key concerns that I still have, because I believe I've said more than enough with this work. Another thought I can't get past is if you want, because in the coalition you like to use that word, chronic evidence. Chronic evidence of how sometimes politics is incomprehensible, irresponsible and how it plays citizens and citizens and the system. The Labour Market Regulation Act also has a work intended for occasional or temporary forms of work. The law, which is the largest, today the coalition party, then the opposition party, collapsed, the small work law, was unacceptable. Allow me to list the reasons cited at the time or mentioned by one of the SDS Members. Let this be chronic evidence. "This law cannot be supported because it does not bring monetary compensation during sickness, does not bring the reimbursement of transport costs, does not bring paid meals, does not bring paid leave, does not bring a retirement allowance, does not bring a retirement allowance, does not bring a financial compensation during the care of the child, does not bring a decent pension, does not bring a decent payment, does not bring a right to a 30-minute break, does not bring a right to strike, it certainly brings more misery and poverty to all those who will be employed in small work. If such a law is suitable for adoption in the National Assembly, then I think there is something very wrong with this national assembly and this government." These are the words spoken in October 2010. A member of the SDS warns against the misery of a young man because of poor marriage solutions. What kind of marriage solution do we have today? If I hadn't thought about it, I'd like to show you this chart. Everything I have mentioned, which was opposed by the SDS Member, remains more or less the same in this bill. Not one right that was withdrawn, which was why the SDS did not back up the law at the time, is added in this proposal, not in small part but in part in temporary work. More. Under number four, I have recorded the payment of social security contributions. The Small Work Act included this item. The labour market regulation law does not include this item and therefore the carrying out of temporary or occasional work is not considered to be a pension insurance or period. So much for the chronic evidence that you can tell someone something. If you'll allow me to take it to the end. I am sure that when we talk about labour market reform, we need to change our minds. One of the central issues of modern economic science is the issue of incentives for work. Labour law is important in providing incentives for work, but it is not only enough and sufficient. The incentives for work are linked to a number of other areas such as social assistance, the care of the unemployed, the relationship between work and capital, etc. Work must become a value, not just a cost. The Social Chamber recalls that the legislation under preparation does not provide sufficient levels of social security. Moreover, the Slovenian Social Chamber warns that in 2013 every family with two children will be poor, with only one highly educated employee who does not earn more than €1260 a month. And before that, we heard a talk about decent pensions. 40% of pensioners have pensions of between €500 and €600. Is that worthy? Not to mention salaries, cash aid, compensation and a new system that has greatly deepened poverty. Labour market reform should aim at flexible legislation, adequate social security and, last but not least, an effective active education, training and education policy for new jobs in a dynamic labour market. It's not here. After all, when I ask myself what we are taking today, I cannot pass the fact that social coordination is still going on. This morning, I was told that what was promised by the Minister to be coordinated with the social partners was no longer harmonised. We don't know the content of the law, the law is inconsistent. Dear colleagues and colleagues, that is, to put it bluntly and irresponsibly. How to vote on such action? If you ask me, I have no idea at this point. As many minutes ago, negotiations were held today on labour market reform with trade unions or with social partners. The Minister is supposed not to say that I will put myself at risk, but he has put pressure on the social partners if you fail to harmonise yourself, there will be no labour market reform. Unresponsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u134	Dear Secretary of State, Vice President, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law that, in addition to the Labour Relations Act, contributes significantly to the desire to change the rigid or labour market in Slovenia. Therefore, today, when we witness the first hearing, we will probably not be able to avoid a debate that will interfere with both marriages. In the SDS Group, we hope or believe that we are all pursuing the same goals that go towards creating new jobs, reducing unemployment, supporting creative people, attracting foreign investors, etc. The solutions will not be ideal, because only if we look at employers' positions on the one hand and trade unions on the other, which are often diametrically opposite, we must be aware of the fact that 100 % of the consent will probably never be achieved, because trade unions often rely on the story of workers, employers have their own wishes and demands on the other hand, and the country has an obligation to protect the weak, especially the unemployed, young and older ones on the third hand. At this first reading, it must be said once again that the Government has committed itself to actively coordinating with the social partners in this area, despite its mediation in the National Assembly. In the SDS Group, we believe that there is nothing wrong with this or that there is nothing missing. It is likely that, in the course of the discussion, we will also forward individual proposals to the parliamentary groups through the National Assembly. As has already been said, in the SDS Group, we are aware that solutions will probably not receive 100% support for every solution, whether it is a union-employers relationship or a coalition-opposition ratio. In the SDS Group, however, we want the debate not to extend to the field of ideology that we have witnessed in past implementation, because if we look for solutions – whether it is an employment or unemployed relationship, workers or employers, old or young, women or men – by dividing things into ours and yours, left and right, we will certainly not succeed, not in the implementation phase of the law, but not in the implementation of the law itself. We probably all agree that labour legislation is urgently needed. There's probably no one in this country who would object. Above all, the rise in unemployment in recent years is an alarm that brings problems in other areas, because we know that social costs, the country has a problem with income, and we start spinning into spirals. The only solution, in our view, is to create new jobs and consequently reduce the number of unemployed. In the SDS Group, we support the proposed amendment to the Labour Market Regulation Act or its starting point. However, we all have about a good month of time left together to pre-debate any open issues in order to obtain as much life as possible. Allow me a few more words about individual solutions to the bill. In the SDS Group, we support solutions to abolish the compulsory application of the job. It may at first sound a little strange, but the fact is that the current regime whereby employers of the Republic of Slovenia are obliged to apply for every job available blurs the picture of the actual jobs available and presents a certain administrative burden for employers, for the Employment Institute and also for the Health Insurance Institute. In the proposal for a law, we support the solution that only those employers wishing to provide public publication through the institution will cooperate with the Employment Act, or those employers who will wish to be provided with suitable candidates from the unemployed or registered job seekers to the public. In particular, it is important for the Slovenian public to stress that the application for a job will continue to be compulsory for the public sector and for the majority of the economy. We also support the solution that employees will be able to register for employment seekers already during the notice period, which will mean actively seeking new employment at this time and offering appropriate assistance to the institution together with appropriate measures on the labour market. In the SDS Group, we also support the specific innovations brought by this law. Allow me to mention at least two or three of them. One of these innovations is the possibility of obtaining the right to a financial compensation even if the contract of employment is terminated under a written agreement between the worker and the employer. What exactly is this? The right to financial compensation for unemployment will also be exercised by an insurance undertaking whose employment relationship has ceased under an agreement with the employer. Another novelty that we support in our Group is the simplification of the process of obtaining data for a dose of monetary compensation. We also support innovations regarding clearer provisions for the integration of people into public works, which is particularly attractive in many areas of our country. We also support some minor changes in other areas, in particular the fact that the Ministry of Labour has finally been added to the possible operators of labour market measures, which we think is urgent and logical. Perhaps just a few words about the Institute of Temporary and Occasional Works for the Elderly, the Unemployed, and the reduction of unemployment benefits in the first three months from 80 to 70%. Here the text of the law is clear. We will probably be looking for the biggest solutions on these two points or the biggest debate will take place here. In the SDS, we will listen to these proposals and try to compose them into proposals for the text of the law. So much for the intro. We believe in the SDS that, within the debate on the adoption of law and in cooperation with the social partners within about one month, we will seek solutions that will protect workers and, on the other hand, urgently open the area of flexibility, and solutions that will try to answer the question of how to create conditions for new jobs, motivate people to work and indirectly reduce unemployment. It sounds tiring, but in the SDS Group, we think we're gonna make it. We have to, for the future of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary of State, Madam Vice-President. In a rather strange atmosphere, I am beginning to present the opinion of the Group of Social Democrats. I know I have to deal with a government that doesn't make mistakes because it's run by a party that doesn't make mistakes. You probably remember the two people who said that. But for the Slovenian State Holding and for the Bad Bank, it was possible to hear at that hearing that the irresponsible coalition is the one that is destroying the sovereignty of the State and has a non-stately attitude to the place. The pension reform, which was not good in the previous mandate, we have heard that only now will it be possible to determine what kind of pension someone will receive and from what sources. I don't know if the pensioners were getting their pensions out of the air like this. With this labour reform, I am asked what we have in front of us. We told the Social Democrats about the state holding company and the bad bank that we do not consider them reform laws, and we cannot call the reform law even so established pension reform. Under labour law, I'm going to quote you two addresses from the U.S.A. A few minutes before 13:00 – "Visikak: When it is estimated that labour market reform is not sufficient, we are ready to abandon it. A few minutes after 3 p.m. STA reports: "Andrej Vizjak, Minister of Labour, today at the press conference, assured the Government that if there is such a desire for employers and trade unions, the reform can be abandoned." So what is left of these urgent reform measures now if we have heard catastrophic stories about how the country will fail. But, today so, tomorrow otherwise, on November 17th, we have a demonstration to attend. Allow me to say how we feel about the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Market Regulation Act. As part of the labour market reform planned by the Social Democrats at the time of the government's leadership in the previous mandate, the Labour Market Regulation Act was first adopted in 2010. This law was part of a package of laws in the framework of labour market reform, with which we intended to respond to the structural problems of this market, which have steadily increased in recent years – increasing segmentation, black work, increasing structural unemployment, a marked increase in youth and educated youth unemployment. This is why we went first of all to the part of the legislation that regulated or prevented, in particular, harsh forms of employment and protected the most vulnerable groups in the labour market. In doing so, it should be noted that the two laws in the labour market reform package that we prepared in the previous term were rejected at the referendum. In the previous mandate, the Borut Pahor government has also prepared the main solution for a new labour relationship law, which is part of labour market reform today as well. The Labour Market Regulation Act, which began in early 2011, introduced an important element of the concept of safe labour market flexibility. It has increased the social security of job seekers by increasing monetary compensation. The height is most important in the first three months after the loss of employment. Refunds increased to 80%. The law also laid down precisely the basis for the assessment of the cash refund in cases where the basis could not be established. It is also very important to have a new regime allowing the unemployed who receive a cash refund to maintain a proportionate share of the cash refund when employed for shorter periods of time. It also allows them to carry out work up to EUR 200 per month, while retaining the right to receive monetary compensation. Access to financial compensation for young people has increased. In the proposed amendment to the Labour Market Regulation Act, the current Government is reducing the social security of job seekers by proposing a reduction in unemployment benefits. The government's reduction in monetary compensation is justified by the increase in the so-called unemployment traps, as, I stress, the analysis of the effects of the Labour Market Regulation Act is intended to show that, by implementing the Labour Market Regulation Act, the unemployment trap has increased due to the increase in monetary compensation in the first three months of unemployment. Whoever read this analysis knows that there are many statements in it that cannot be attached to them. What the applicant claims can also be considered an important conclusion of the analysis. This argument is particularly problematic because the Labour Market Regulation Act began in early 2011 – during the deterioration of the labour market situation due to the consequences of the economic crisis, when the annual unemployment rate increased and long-term unemployment also increased. Under such conditions, it is difficult to believe that because of the "welcome" unemployment benefits in the first three months, job seekers would like to remain permanently unemployed. In doing so, there is no clear indication that the government will save around €9 million by amending the law on unemployment compensation at the annual level. An even more problematic proposal lays down the obligation to work temporarily and occasionally for unemployed persons over 50 years of age. The fact that it is a forced nature to carry out temporary and occasional work and not to choose is controversial and therefore the comparison with small work is entirely unfounded. Indeed, the rejection of such temporary or occasional work is punishable by the deletion from the register of unemployed persons. We can talk about statistical fraud again. The selectivity of the obligation to perform temporary and occasional works is also questioned, which is limited only to job-seekers over 50 years of age, which is discriminatory in relation to other job-seekers. However, discrimination is prohibited in different places in European legislation. We also believe that the proposal of the Institute for Temporary and Occasional Work, as proposed, counts far from the concept any work that our Government has put into effect in the previous term by means of a small work law. A key idea of small work was the introduction of a concept of safe flexibility for today's existing forms of occasional and temporary work that would largely eliminate segmentation in the labour market and reduce black work. Let me remind you that the largest coalition party before the referendum on the Small Work Act in the campaign against the introduction of small work has pointed out that, I say, "with little work, the pressures and social injustices will increase" that "the little worker will be a great poorer" that "the Small Work Act introduces a new wage form of employment" etc. What, then, should we think about the proposal for temporary and occasional work, as envisaged by the novel that we are considering? The amendment also suggests that workers should be actively involved in the active search for employment during the notice period, which at first sight appears to be a good solution. The practical value of the measure, in particular from the worker's point of view, is questionable. Why? In the event of unemployment, the duration of receipt of a financial refund shall be reduced for the period of absence from work at the time of the cancellation period when he sought employment. Given the acute situation in the labour market, such a measure, which is intended to increase the flexibility of employment, may lead to a deterioration of the position of job seekers. In addition to the incomplete and reckless measures that have just been mentioned, however, the novelty also brings some improvement. One such is the abolition of the compulsory application of the job at the Employment Institute. From the point of view of jobseekers, it is considered that they have the right information about jobs that are actually available. From the employer's point of view, however, given the different recruitment practices, the obligation to apply for a job must be an administrative burden. It is true, however, that the novelty of this measure does not solve the public sector situation, where the picture of the jobs actually available will continue to be blurred so as not to talk about chaining. In summary, a number of issues are emerging on the proposal for a solution to the amendment to the Labour Market Regulation Act. With regard to the most important solutions, which are elements of labour market reform, we are being held back. In addition to removing administrative barriers, which is not disputed, the aim of the law seems to be to increase flexibility in particular at the expense of reducing the safety of workers and job seekers, which is not acceptable for the Social Democrats. We will therefore try to cut the amendments into unacceptable solutions for us in the further consideration of the bill. Otherwise, we will decide what our vote on the amendment will be after second reading at the working body and then at the plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the National List, Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u138	Thank you, Vice President. The Labour Market Regulation Act was adopted in 2010. The basic purpose of the law, the provision of basic income security and greater employment are two of the three pillars of the so-called flexicurity concept. This is a concept that seeks to build a modern and efficient labour market by logically integrating labour market rules while maintaining an important role for the social system. In order to ensure better functioning of this law or to remedy certain shortcomings, the Government has drawn up a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the same Labour Market Regulation Act. Every job and every income of Slovenian citizens is precious during the economic crisis. In these uncertain times, companies could offer more opportunities to work if they were given the opportunity to adapt faster and better to uncertain market conditions. This enables, among others, flexible forms of work, one of which is currently mainly student work and work through a business and copyright contract. In order to be able to involve a wider range of people in these processes, the drafter of the amendment introduces a new form of work called temporary or occasional work. This proposal could be good if the amendment of the law of this form of work did not limit the unemployed, over 50 years old, pensioners and some other narrowly defined groups. The Civil Code sees no valid reason for such a harsh restriction of this new form of work. Such restrictions on occasional work are unknown in other developed countries. The introduction of temporary and occasional work without restrictions would be an opportunity to enable individuals to re- or additionally activate and gain experience and additional earnings and help employers to respond more flexibly to market requirements. It is an opportunity to finally simplify the various flexible forms of work and introduce a more unified system of occasional and temporary works, including student and student work. At the same time, we do not understand why the system of occasional and temporary work is closed to already employed persons. Blinding the eyes before the fact that many employees are working in the afternoon or at weekends is a missed opportunity to reduce their work to black and to waive taxes and contributions that could be collected from this title. The new law reduces the administrative burden on employers during the employment phase and rationalises the recording and publication of vacancies at the Employment Institute. It provides for the abolition of the obligation of employers to apply for any job available to the institution, even if they already have a candidate selected for it. This will break the tradition of publishing jobs that are not actually jobs. However, the energy and time of job seekers will be directed to where new co-workers really need them. Employers who are actually looking for employment candidates will be able to continue to publish vacancies publicly through the Employment Office. The aim of transparency is also to maintain the mandatory public publication of the job in the public sector and the majority of the economy. The Parliamentary Group states that the proposed amendment of the law at this stage is appropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u140	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! How to eliminate the traps of unemployment, how instead of working in black to encourage regular employment or at least temporary work, how to reduce the over-cost of unemployment benefits and enable them to work, how to reduce administrative obstacles for employers are issues that have been trying to solve for many years. We are also deeply delayed by amendments to the labour law, which we have already pointed out in the Slovenian People's Party in addressing the previous reform law or pension reform. The biggest question is whether the proposals will also be accepted by the social partners with whom the applicant is still negotiating. We hope that happens. We have before us a law in which the proposer or the Government offers some solutions and answers to the above questions. With the amendment of the law, the removal of the traps of unemployment removes the mandatory application of the need for workers at the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia. They also bring some elements of the possibility of small or temporary work and thus elements of prevention of work in black. The Small Work Act and the Law on the Prevention of Work in Black have been the subject of referendums, as we all know, and I fear that negotiations with the social partners on the proposal in the law, which brings some solutions to the intervention of work and temporary work, will be very difficult and difficult. However, it is certainly more convenient for employers to temporarily hire unemployed, over 50 years of age, and pensioners who have working experience, thus helping to solve large orders and occasional job increases. However, for pensioners, extra income on age and inclusion in society is added. In the parliamentary group, we believe that in this law the decision is appropriate for both the unemployed and the pensioners to be assigned to temporary work by the Employment Office. We also agree with the solution to keep the student work and regulate it in a special law, and therefore it is difficult to see this law copying the above-mentioned laws. With regard to the intervention of temporary and temporary work, we have already proposed to the Minister of the Slovenian People's Party Members and Members of the Slovenian People's Party to consider and propose a more favourable solution to the provision so that occasional and temporary work can be transferred to a place up to 3 hours away. We know that in the case of Slovenia this means that you have to go to the other end of Slovenia, and we all know that public transport is not properly arranged and therefore work could be too much and too much time lost. A reduction in the remuneration for unemployment for a maximum of 18 months would, in our view, positively encourage the unemployed to seek work. However, we have more concerns in the Slovenian People's Party about the reduction in the rate of payment of unemployment allowance from 80% to 70% in the first three months of receiving monetary compensation, i.e. EUR 9 million of annual savings in unemployment allowance, and on the other hand this is unfavourable for anyone who suddenly loses his job. We therefore propose to examine the solution to keep the percentage at the beginning of the same, 80% and then to reduce it more restrictively, which, in our view, would be a greater incentive to seek employment. On the other hand, the application at the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for employment may accelerate the possibility and search for employment at the time of termination. We also consider this solution in the Slovenian People's Party to be the right one. The law reduces certain administrative obstacles and sets out more clearly the possible time for the unemployed to be involved in public works. Some provisions of the law are also more clearly recorded as regards the procedure for entering into the register of operators, active employment policy programmes to facilitate and simplify the selection of operators to respond quickly to labour market needs. It also simplifies the process of obtaining data for the cash refund. Members and Members of the Slovenian People's Party believe that the law brings some clearer solutions and is a suitable basis for further consideration. We will support the law at first reading, and we will further give our opinion when the final text of the law negotiated with the social partners is known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mag. Jana Jenko on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Madam President. All together, welcome again. The basic objective of the proposal for a labour relationship law is to make the labour market more flexible. To this end, the possibility of a temporary and occasional part of certain categories of persons is introduced. These are pensioners, unemployed persons, over 50 years of age, asylum seekers, persons with temporary protection and, following the following paragraph, all persons who do not have any status, which would relate either to education or to the circumstances which are already the basis for insurance. Unemployed persons over 50 years of age are a really sensitive category, which forces are hard to get back to work, but these are people who, like all other working-age people, need regular employment and normal income. They don't just need 60 hours of monthly work and a net salary for a job that's only 200 euros a month. They deserve a full work obligation to pay for a decent life and to pay full contributions to pension and disability insurance in order to have decent pensions. In the DeSUS Group, it is proposed that this group of unemployed, over 50 years of age, be excluded from this form of work in the same way that the unemployed, under 50 years of age, are now excluded. The next thing we have in DeSUS is the abolition of the compulsory application of the job at the RS Employment Institute. The Institute is a public supervisory organisation in the field of care for the unemployed. There the unemployed exercise their rights. The institution shall be the provider of compensation for the implementation of the active employment policy measures. It is right to collect all applications for jobless employers and to publish job vacancies, which means that the unemployed have full services, including a free labour market view. There is already a possibility for the employer to decide whether to place a job in the institution in addition to applying for a job, including a public job. It can be decided not to publish it, which means that there is a need for a job with an employer, but that the employer has already hired or will specifically hire someone who wants it. The Employment Office reports that as many as 75 % of employers make an electronic application for a job on the Internet portal, with employers having to complete only 10 data in order to comply with the statutory application. Only if they also want to cooperate with the institution in the search for candidates and also to make a public publication of the job vacancy must they complete the questionnaire to the end. It is precisely because of the extremely simple and efficient way in which employers apply for a job in satisfaction surveys with the work of the institution that they do not view this application as an administrative obstacle. We believe that the existing system is very transparent, transparent, because there is indeed a clear need for employment, which is extremely important in monitoring the state of unemployment in relation to the movement of employment needs in both the public and private sectors. Information on job vacancies is also required by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, as it is required to report vacancies in accordance with the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on quarterly statistics on job vacancies in the Community. If the mandatory application is no longer available, it will be forced to launch a survey of the data collection, which will encourage the operation of the country. However, a further consideration of this point is that the application remains compulsory for the public sector and for the majority of the companies owned by the State. So it is the unequal position of both employers and, as a result, potential workers. We also welcome some news in this area in the DeSUS Group. These are innovations in the field of public works, simplification of procedures for obtaining data for the assessment of monetary compensation, simplification of the selection process for active employment policy operators. We also believe that the change in the right to the remaining part of the unused right to a cash refund on the spot is a change, as we consider the accumulation of these rights to be intentional. Regarding the reduction in monetary compensation in the first three months, however, our thinking is as follows. The high monetary compensation does not mean a motivation to find work, but the second part of this story is that in times of economic crisis, when there is no job available, financial disstimulation does not help this person to get a job, but if he does so. We also have some concerns in DeSUS, despite the principled positive approach to labour market reforms. In further consideration of the law, we expect to find a common language and that dialogue between the social partners will also be constructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u143	Thank you very much. New Slovenia delegation group, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Amendments and additions to the Labour Market Regulation Act are an important part of the reform package of laws that will jointly help to halt the decline in economic growth and the faster exit of Slovenia from the crisis. In Slovenia, the labour market is rigid, we hear in the media, from experts and people on the ground, especially entrepreneurs. The situation on the labour market is, according to the Government's assessment, tightened. This means, above all, the relative number of unemployed persons who have persisted for some time over 100,000 or more. There are several reasons for this and they are complex. The objective and the basic objective of the amendments and the completion of the Labour Market Regulation Act is to cut off this stagnation and make it possible to create a situation that will facilitate the opening of new, high-quality jobs and create a situation that will cost people more to work than to receive unemployment compensation. The data show that more unemployed people are unemployed after the expiry of their right to compensation for unemployment than they are when they are received. With the proposal, we will reduce the unemployment trap and add impetus to the speedy activation of the unemployed. This will also allow for some changes in active employment policy, and in New Slovenia we point out that there is a need to closely monitor the effectiveness of individual measures and focus on those with good results. We welcome the possibility of temporary and occasional work of the unemployed and pensioners, with the Ministry being reminded of the potential problem of collecting a levy from these parts in the same budget fund as the amount of the concession fee from the student work done. The problem is that the use of the funds from this fund is explicitly allowed only for the purpose of granting different types of scholarships and the proposal for a Labour Market Regulation Act would provide that funds taken from temporary or temporary work could be used to co-finance the implementation of active employment policy measures. In Nova Slovenija, we believe that two entirely different uses of funds from the dedicated budget fund may give rise to doubts as to the appropriate use of the funds raised. In order to collect duties from temporary and temporary work, we propose the creation of a separate budget fund or the use of resources for a single purpose from the Joint Fund should be limited to the amount of resources collected from each duty. There is a need to ensure the strict purpose of spending the money from the budget fund. The draft law, as long as it takes into account our comments, will be supported by Members of the New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u145	Thank you very much. We have concluded with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and we are moving on to the general debate of Members and Members. First it's mag. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Today I would rather talk about creating a good environment for new jobs than legislation regulating the labour market. The labour market is a hub between job seekers who have invested very much in their knowledge, work experience and skills, and the market offers these abilities, either directly or through agencies that have not yet been established – let's say this is an employment agency. Job seekers seek first employment or employment after termination or loss of employment. Even those who are dissatisfied with the present work or seek work in accordance with their education, interest or ability. They can do various jobs or occupations by means of their education. On the other hand, we have employers looking for their vacancies following retirement, an increase in the current or permanent scope of work or replacement, candidates or candidates for this work. They also require certain skills, skills or practical experience to carry out their professions. So we have two shareholders. The current situation, as a result of which I do not know how much analysis and everything, shows an extremely large discrepancy between the skills of job seekers and current job vacancies. Currently, at the end of October, between 18 and 29 years of age, 27 thousand 456 job seekers are unemployed. Thus, there is a great disalignment between job seekers and the current job vacancies required by professional knowledge, which is particularly true for young job seekers. The Labour Market Regulation Act follows certain objectives, greater flexibility, greater flexibility, administration and intergenerational solidarity. The following principles are very important: safety, flexibility, flexibility. These principles are intended to be equally represented by the Member State-employer-employer in the triangle. If we can achieve sufficient flexibility, flexibility, security through legislation in this triangle, then we have succeeded. However, if we focus everything on businesses, so that the greatest security and flexibility must happen there, then we will probably fail and we will not eventually get a product that meets the needs of workers or the labour market. The objectives should follow a systemic solution in order to ensure that human resources are safe for workers, an agency that we do not already have, or that it is a employment agency, and returned safely to the labour market. Flexibility, such as rapid forgiveness, rapid employment, is today the goal of every company on the market, as market conditions are such that an increased labour force needs to be made available quickly. After this work is gone, put it somewhere, so it doesn't lose its safety. Therefore, this agency, established by a certain contribution from businesses and countries, should ensure that, for example, one year workers have sufficient security, 90% of the salary in such an agency and then return to the labour market by training, retraining. This circle must enable the security of the force. For this circle to be safe, it must be cared for by the state, employers and employees. By adopting competitive systemic legislation and creating an environment that meets the needs of competitive labour and offers safe flexibility to understand that human capital is important for economic growth. Employers must ensure the flexibility of the labour force by training, training, acquiring new skills and practical experience to carry out related tasks to invest in research and development. In a good company is the best flexibility, the best safety for workers. A company that actually cares about training to spend, I don't know, 10% of its training resources, and research and development – workers have a lot of opportunity to stay in such a company until they retire, by gaining new experience and knowledge each year. Today, it is known that no profession has held up with certain knowledge for more than five years. After 5 years, knowledge needs to be refreshed, upgraded due to new technological processes, innovation, new materials, new service processes, etc. I'm talking about the product. The product may be a service or a product. It's a factory or an organization. Employers must take care throughout their working life to raise their skills, to be ready to perform other and different tasks, and to meet the labour needs required by the market. This law, which is prepared, is too unilaterally regulated for employers to take care of flexibility, security, intergenerational solidarity, flexibility, etc. I fear that these three stakeholders in the triangular state, which would be an agency or an employment agency-employers-employers, will not be equally involved with responsibility. The agreed round of employer-employer countries and the achievement of safe flexibility in this circle can meet market needs in a competitive manner. By upgrading intergenerational solidarity and investing in knowledge and research and development, we will be able to create new market needs through innovative products and thus create new jobs. Slovenia must open between 40 and 60 thousand jobs in the following years, probably in 2013. That's because it's a huge opportunity. We get 1.4 billion Euros of European aid, which would make sense to use for new jobs, not to spread across all local communities for some pedestrians, roads, wine roads, candelabras, and I don't know what else. In addition, more than 300 measures have already been taken in this economic field. If we are not able to raise economic growth slightly for 2013, even though a negative 2% is foreseen, then I do not know what we can do to boost economic growth if we are not able to do so next year. We say quite often that we are not able to make infrastructure investments because we have no plan. That's not true. Let all planners start, say, Velenje-Cele motorway, and only Velenje-Cele, or 3, 4 hydro power plants on the central or lower Savi. One hydropower plant is 130 million euros. Then we have the second rail track, the third pier, etc. These are major economic investments that the state should trigger when the belt is tightened and private and public consumption is negative. If private and public consumption are negative, there is no employment, there is no investment at this level, and then the state has to do something about it. You know that the American system is based on as much consumption as possible, and if there is as much consumption as possible to be in positive growth, then we would also somehow dig out of all of this, and we are just shivering and spiraling down – and it will become a spiral of death. Every year, 600 companies go down, 600 bankruptcys go down. New ones are born extremely few. We lose 15,000 jobs a year in the real sector. Catastrophe. Inadequate insolvency legislation that does not retain developmental nuclei in companies – all of this leads to negative growth. We want positive economic growth, so everything, as we adopt laws, must be done to ensure that next year we have zero economic growth or even positive economic growth. So many opportunities that we will get so much free money from Europe, we will not get any more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber, followed by Mrs. Maria Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. I would like to remind you all that we are sitting today at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly because this call was requested by a group of Members and Members coming from coalition parties. In the request for a reference, we can read that the proposed laws must be considered and adopted as soon as possible in order to prevent the difficult remedial effects on the state and functioning of the country. We have a minister among us who, during today's debate, peacefully declares at the press conference that if labour market reform is not sufficient, the government can easily withdraw or withdraw from it. We have the Prime Minister of the Government, who threatens everyone on average, that if we do not adopt all these laws, which are supposed to be reforms, and two more, about holding and bad banks, the defeat in Slovenia – a clear decline, the ratings will fall and the opposition will be guilty of everything. I'm sorry, as the opposition party of the Social Democrats, Minister, we urge you to carry out reforms, not withdraw them, as you predict. This is proof that this Government has no concept of job provision, labour market regulation and that Slovenia comes out of the economic and financial crisis. You have no concept at all. This proves what is happening here today in Parliament. This time, as the opposition, I reiterate, we call on you to make sure that Slovenia does not fall in ratings, that we will not increasingly be in debt abroad – when foreign markets are run out when America is gone, where will we go, to the Moon? – under even worse conditions than the state has committed itself in America. Sorry, this is a chaotic situation in Slovenia, and I must admit that I have just saved a newspaper in order to stress how important the pillars have been presented by this Government with the Labour Market Act, the Labour Relations Act and the Pension Reform Act. Minister, you're like the one who's the pillar and the one who's building these pillars to make these things come true. At the same time, today we read a statement that we do not need it at all and that it is something that is not critical, obviously, if not accepted. Minister, with what you said today with this statement, you've only confirmed something. Firstly, this is true, as I have said, that this Government has no concept of job and economic growth and that the only objective of this Government is how to acquire 12 billion state assets and how to cover with 4 billion public debt the loans you have hired in the 2004-2008 mandate, which is why we now have bad claims in banks. You have only these two objectives – how to cover up the developments in the 2004-2008 mandate, which you have evaluated to EUR 4 billion plus another billion for the recapitalisation of banks, i.e. 5, and if I add up to those 12, that is EUR 17 billion. This is what drives you, but not in the interest of providing jobs, not in the interest of providing conditions for the development of the economy, but only your interest in acquiring this property and covering up bad claims. No other concept has this government after what we read today. You expect the National Assembly and the opposition to be what to do when the minister says we don't even need this law. How do we vote? One more time, and I'm closing it. We invite you to do your job. If you don't know him in this area of responsibility, Minister, leave it to someone else. Perhaps the President of the Government should react to what you have said and replace someone responsible for the negotiating process with the social partners. I'm looking at this thing the way I told you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u149	The Minister has spoken to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I'm happy to answer that. As you look at things and how you work, you proved in the previous term when we had an extraordinary economic downturn. We've lost 100,000 jobs and we've committed ourselves over our heads, we're the country with the biggest debt trend. That's your concept. We've seen you. That's why you lost the early elections, and that's why the early elections were. Dear Mr Weber, this is your concept, which has resulted in very clear figures of the macroeconomic picture of this country, and we are trying to resolve this. That's not what you're saying. It's not true and it's a twist, and if you're going to make an opinion based on such a different media statement, it's your problem. [[advertising from the hall]] That's your problem because you're not even ready to learn. Now you're commenting in between, and I haven't even answered your statement yet. This government has a concept and has also proposed it through a series of measures. We see the country's solution to the recovery of the economy and to the reduction of this country's public finances in both directions. Without both measures or a set of sets of both measures, there is no way. They're twins. On the one hand, limiting public spending, in particular budget consumers, and on the other hand strengthening economic activity. That is why you have adopted in this House a series of measures and a package covered by these three laws that we are talking about today, and at the same time the laws around which referendums have already been launched – a package that wishes to do so, and that is a concept that is respected. If you don't recognize him, it's probably not our fault, but somewhere else. As I have commented today on developments in labour market reform, I must draw attention to the fact that this labour market reform is intended for. Employers to encourage them to work. It's a theme. Just this. The unemployed, too, should be taken to work first and debirocratise certain procedures, but these are, in some ways, indirect goals or objectives in the background. The key objective is to encourage employers to work. That is why we make the unemployed more unemployed, help with active employment policies and encourage employers to work. So, the key player is employers, as well as workers. My statement was that if we did not come to a beneficial outcome in social dialogue, that we would end up with just some cosmetic corrections to the existing legislation, that we could not agree on other essential things that would achieve this objective or that there would be no solution, and that these measures would also be followed by a referendum, that there was no point in insisting on these cosmetic measures. That was my statement. Please understand it that way. Far from being my statement that we don't need these measures. I'm doing a lot of things -- you said that before. I am doing a lot of work in these negotiations to reach the end, and today I have also commented - I hope you have also read this - that negotiations are making good progress, that negotiating partners are constructive, that there are many proposals and that we are going towards the goal. You haven't read it, and you haven't mentioned it, because you don't like to mention it. [[advertising from the hall]] Your Honor, I don't know how we're gonna talk if we comment on each other. Is this a way of working in Parliament, a respected leader of the Group of Social Democrats? Is that how we talk? Fine. I have been elected to this Parliament for four terms, and I do not know this practice. Respectfully, this is crucial and conceptual, which is at the forefront of the efforts of these three reform laws. If you're saying there's no concept here, then I don't know how else to convince you. Once again, the purpose of this law in relation to the new labour law is to make the labour market more flexible to encourage employers to work. Why? To make it possible, through working relationships and through other institutions monitoring the labour relationship, to end the labour relationship if the business reasons in these chaotic economic times make it so possible for the employer to adapt the labour force, the employees, the work process, the challenges he faces on the market today, in these chaotic situations where no one in the business world can tell you what will happen to some employer in two years' time. Today we live and depend on orders from the international environment, where things are as acute as ours. Today, those who have a stable business are rare, and if we do not at least partially adapt labour law to these challenges, we will do nothing in agreement with the unions. I do not think, Sir Weber, that we should go before you with cosmetic corrections and sow flowers here so that we do not know how to change labour legislation and a flexible labour market. I don't intend to do that. That is why I also said that if we finally find in the social dialogue that there is no willingness between the social partners to ease labour legislation, to make this more flexible, then we will consider our further actions. However, this reform is necessary, otherwise it would not be proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. The labour market, it was said, is for employers. And I think that the job market is for the unemployed, the workers who are looking for work – those who have it already have it. We need measures to protect workers. We know what it's like from practice. The employer today can forgive the employee whenever he wants to. Exploitation is still present. Apparently, it can happen that it will be even more present, as a fixed-term job is evident for 5 months. This employment must also be recorded and the working time must therefore be recorded and entered into the register of work they are doing. A two-year job is an indeterminate job. However, from practice, I can tell you that employers will not stick to this. For this reason, certain sanctions will also have to be imposed, and records will have to be monitored, etc., because we know that they always find an excuse to dismiss an employee in order to be dismissed without a discharge. They often do not pay benefits to the pension fund, etc. For this reason, I think it is essential that order be made in this area, including with regard to job search. We have employment agencies. These are offices where all unemployed are supposed to be registered and sought employment through them. But it's not like we're being broken down by work agencies that our poor workers looking for work are still taking advantage of. I think that these things should be put into law and that workers should be protected. There's something else. Our labour market should be regulated, not flexible, because only 2 million of us and employees are understaffed. I have talked about this with economists who believe that flexibility for workers will make things worse and worse. At the moment, I have no hope that this law will make progress in relation to the present law. However, I would be very happy if I could be denied this, or if in a year or two, we could find that there are big changes and great security for employees, because I think we need to think about the unemployed, not the employers. In other laws, we have already burdened employers with taxes, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u153	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Janez Ribič, Matthew Tonin. After him, Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. The Labour Market Regulation Act brings some new solutions that could help to prevent employment from falling into the black market and to play against the provisions of labour law, due to the pressures of employers who, due to too restrictive provisions of labour law, do not want to re-employ workers. Even more so are small and medium-sized enterprises and seasonal workers, or companies in the event of a sudden increase in workers' needs, due to extraordinary or larger orders and so on. This law, together with the Proposal for a Labour Relations Act, in some way solves the problem of hiring for a certain period of time and gives employers the opportunity to offer different employment opportunities, such as those laid down in this Act, temporary or short-term work or work with the intervention of workers. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we see a positive difference in these provisions from the provisions of the contested Small Work Act and the Law on the Prevention of Work in Black, which we did not support in the previous term and then fell definitively at the referendum. This law, which is before us, provides for the possibility of temporary work only for the unemployed over 50 years of age and for the pensioners, and the student work will still be regulated by special law. It is positive for businesses that they will be able to temporarily employ pensioners and unemployed persons who already have experience in working. There are also no disputed provisions in this law, such as the neighbourhood aid in the law on the prevention of work in black. In my view, however, it is still time for us to decide in the next debate how to encourage the unemployed as painlessly as possible to seek employment faster. I am convinced that only by reducing the remuneration in the first three months and by reducing the time taken of the remuneration, we will not achieve this. The most effective measure is to offer new jobs. This will be achieved if our economy is more competitive and successful. Therefore, each first step towards this is to adopt measures to increase flexibility in employment and, as one of the approaches, to allow temporary employment. That is why, together with the Member and Members of the Slovenian People's Party, I will support this law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u156	Your Honor! I am pleased that in Slovenia too we have learned that laws must follow trends in the global market and that we are aware that only pension law and pension reform cannot do much if we do not take a step forward on the income side or on the labour market. That's why it's urgent. Minister, when you mentioned that the law would eventually be withdrawn if this were to run into resistance from social partners or unions – you could also say about pension reform and also about all reform laws. I know that this is a tough nut during the recession and during the crisis, but it is your duty and it is for all of us to create conditions for adoption, to create a better climate and create such a law that will encourage and enable development, development of all of us in the labour market and in general on the market. What you used to do, Mr Minister, you, and Mr Weber – you pointed at him or he pointed out to you that this is your problem. No, gentlemen, this is not your problem, this is our common problem and it binds us to citizens and citizens and you, as executive branches of government, to propose such laws and to take as long as it takes for you to reach at least a minimum compromise with the social partners and to adopt such a law that will allow for progress. We know that in the global market, in the free market for goods and services, labour also comes from various countries to Slovenia, and here we have to look after and protect our citizens and citizens so that they do not feel threatened or less secure. About a flexible labour market, as he wants to show up and understand – I don't think so. That the purpose of this Act is primarily to ensure a higher level of safety for all workers. There's something else I'd like to say. The law must not be kept in silence or recorded in such a way that it allows sloths and sloths to sit somewhere on an account and live as they live. We can't afford this in this country anymore, because I know quite a few of those who would rather sit and lie down than do. The system that we had in the past allowed them to exploit and to be on the grey or black market, whatever you say, to do and do, but at the same time to do so on state or public money, because the system made it possible. Why not? If the state offers, you take it, but it's to the detriment of all the other working people. Then we talk about the problem of providing a pension. Then we talk about there's no money, but we have a system like this that runs right out of our troughs, and the holes are huge. Not only is there one big hole, but there are several holes, and a hole in the hole will have to be blocked if we are to ensure the sustainability of the pension system, which is very important. Mrs Iva Dimic said that it would be more worthwhile for people to work than to receive unemployment benefits. She rightly concluded that it would be better for them to work, not to pay more for them to be in the employment agency or to receive some social or quasi-support benefits. To create jobs. Man is created, work has created civilization and civilization is the result of work. Only work can solve the crisis and we can emerge as winners, but all together, opposition and position. We're not here to plant because we're fed up. Those who observe us and follow us are no longer looking at us as opposition and position, but they want us to do something. As we will do so, it is up to you, so I invite you, the position and the ministers, to be constructive and you will receive constructive cooperation from the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The minister wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u158	Mr. Ambassador, thank you so much for your performance. I think he has further encouraged me to do everything we can in the negotiations. You have pointed out some very important elements for which we are looking for a solution. I'm pleased to see your point of view. Once again, regardless of everything that has been explained today in terms of participating in these solutions and in the next phase of the negotiations, I ask you for help and cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Just Bevk, followed by Polonac Komar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u160	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A well-respected choir. At global level, we have witnessed one very pressing problem for several years, namely the growth of unemployment in the European Union and the United States of America and the relocation of industrial production to Asia. Thus, some countries or regions have lost their classical industry. A typical example of this is England. There are about 24 million unemployed people in the European Union. We also have 23 million independent entrepreneurs, and if everyone hired only one worker, the problem would be solved. But it's not that simple. Systemic measures are needed for growth and jobs. The situation in Slovenia is also worrying, as the crisis has hit us much more than in other comparable countries of the European Union. The Slovenian economy today needs a new development momentum, new jobs, new markets and innovative products with high added value. Unfortunately, in the time of the fat cows, our leading managers were mainly involved in the ownership of the companies they were running. If in the economy, including with adequate support from the State, we could create new jobs, all three laws, both pension laws, the labour market law and the labour relations law that we are considering this week, could be significantly more favourable to workers, the unemployed and the pensioners. The previous opposition, or at least most of it, opposed all the Pahor government's reform measures. You remember what it was like in June last year, four against three against the law and one against the government. All of this destruction has greatly influenced money in international banking markets and reduced our credit ratings. We lost a lot of time, mainly due to the party's struggle to take power, and all these months when the state could act, they went to nothing. If we had a slightly more state-of-the-art opposition in the previous term, today's problems would not be so great and, above all, the current government would expect a little more self-criticism and sincere regret for certain moves in the previous term. Even from current Prime Minister Janez Janša. If we asked him whether he was aware that today's problems of resolving the financial, economic and social crisis would be significantly more difficult than ever, I do not know what his response would be. I'm just guessing he probably didn't realize the problem at the time. That is why it would be good for all of us today, both for the government and the opposition side, for the former opposition leader to acknowledge this and to make it clear to the Slovenian public. And for that, it takes some state courage. It would make it much easier for all of us, perhaps even to step into the path of national unity and agree on a common effort to get out of the crisis. Maybe I was a little naive to expect the Minister of Mags to do that today. Andrej Vizjak. The pension law and the labour market law have much more in common than at first sight. I am concerned about the cleaning of the pension register mentioned at the outset by Minister Visjak. According to a government proposal, with the amendment of the pension law, as many as 170,000 Slovenian pensioners will move transparently into the state budget, as the Minister of Mag has previously expressed itself. Visjak, which in my opinion means that we will get a new category of deleted pensioners who will be entitled to pay their pension from the so-called cash social transfers. This will automatically result in a permanent and gradual reduction of pensions for this category of pensioners, which will not be sufficient for a decent survival, and will be again severely put on the labour market by those who will still be able to hold on to any work. The content of all three laws is also essentially linked to the creation of new jobs. What is the basis for creating new jobs? These are mainly investments in education and development and research. Before 1990, Slovenian companies had 4 thousand 500 development engineers, in the middle of the 1990s barely a thousand 400, as we shut down the development departments and decommissioned the industry. Just remember the big Sparkle with over 33,000 employees. What's left of it today? In 1993, we had the highest unemployment rate of over 130 thousand people. If I go back to the beginning. The fact is, the United States and Europe have moved production to cheaper areas, but the loss of jobs has therefore been high. It is necessary to re-produce at home, both in the United States of America and in the European Union. While we are still on the ground in Europe and Slovenia, Barack Obama has already launched a new paradigm in the United States, producing back to the United States, which is already showing results. Therefore, development banks in Europe and Slovenia must stimulate science and development and create new products and restore and preserve Europe and Slovenia as one of the leading global producers. This was also realized by the Borut Pahor government, which increased the research and development funding by €277 million or 45% between 2008 and 2011. The current Government, however, has drastically reduced this by means of the 2013 and 2014 draft budgets. During the previous term, the opposition repeatedly reiterated the mantra about the creation of new jobs. Today you are in power and you have all the mechanisms to create new jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u161	Minister Vizjak wanted a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u162	I believe that the memory of many is very short. The current government, which has been the opposition in its previous mandate, is indeed incomprehensible to see passiveness, particularly in terms of economic recovery or crisis management. Here I can chronologically list the packages of measures proposed by the previous opposition to Parliament, and we have also dealt with them at extraordinary meetings, which you have rejected. All in a row, in terms of encouraging the economy to work and maintain jobs, as the number of jobs fell dramatically at the time. That's what we suggested. Let me remind you that at the very beginning of the previous mandate, when you led the Government, we have also proposed measures on tax reliefs when companies still have profits and could invest in these tax reliefs in the continuation of the business projects they have put in place. So it was rejected. We have proposed lowering and decommissioning the economy. We have also proposed certain subsidies for industrial types such as the automotive industry. Remember that we encouraged subsidies to buy an environmentally friendly car, and you refused to do so. I can list the other measures covered by the three packages, and very early in 2009, when negative trends could be reversed, you refused. Now you're telling us that we've been destructive and that we're forgetting etc. I don't know any of your serious action within the eight months of the government's rule, which would go at least as far as the economic recovery and activity we proposed at the time. That is why we wanted to draw you into these projects that we are doing, so we have also sent you proposals for laws, stating that we want to cooperate and discuss these solutions with you. Nor did you react differently than your President, who thanked you for the initiative and said that you would accept it. Not until today, but it's been more than 20 days or almost a month. So, I would really like to ask you for a little more objectivity. Otherwise, we can list in very detail from the archives of the National Assembly all the measures that we have proposed to achieve this objective. I also agree with a lot of this debate. For example, if this labour market reform does not help us or helps us very little, it will not be upgraded by measures to increase economic activity, to overcome credit crunches, to better manage state assets and to improve economic recovery, particularly in the private sector, and to attract foreign investment. Let me also introduce you to this: the reform of the labour market is also accompanied by our simulation of the OECD assessment as to what the new assessment will look like. This is very interesting, not so much for our employers, but for those who might decide whether to come to us or invest in Slovenia. Such employers look at these international scales and find out what the labour market is like in Slovenia. Following these preliminary analyses we have, we will significantly improve competitiveness through the labour market flexibility segment. We are aware of all of this, and we also have some memories of who has ever done anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mrs. Polonca Komar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! To begin with, I will read to you the opinion of one of the Slovenian employers: "We simply don't want to work anymore, we don't want to take on enormous responsibilities and risks of ourselves, and we don't want to bring any more work into Slovenia, because we are being punished in all areas, from criminal, tax, labour and I don't know which. We only recognize one boss, and that's the buyer." The policy is to seek agreement between employers and employees in the regulation of the labour market. The Slovenian labour market is mainly marked by a large number of different precarious forms of work. Slovenia takes the lead in contracts for a certain period of time. At the same time, we are extremely inefficient or rigid in employment procedures. Discontinuation of working relationship is also administratively complicated. What do we want to accomplish by this law? Greater flexibility in the labour market, reducing the pitfalls of unemployment and removing administrative barriers, at least some. Slovenia needs a law that will favour employment for an indefinite period of time, which will ensure flexicurity for both employers and workers, which will encourage employers to re-enter the workforce by removing administrative barriers. We need a new labour market regulation that will significantly improve the situation of young people in the labour market and provide them with opportunities for more permanent forms of employment. We want to break the tradition of publishing jobs that are not at all. Some of the solutions for the above are presented in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Market Regulation Act. What we accept or debate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Apparently, the practice of the opposition's debate referred to in the point at the point is almost repeated.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u167	Mr Grill, I'm sorry, but since there's a lot of people out there, I would only predict that Mrs Renata Brunskole's next turn would be mag. Ivan Vogrin. Excuse me. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Let me take my breath. As I have mentioned, the opposition has always been able to listen to the evidence that this law once again violates the rights, that this law again causes a variety of things that will be detrimental to our job seekers, employers and so on. But whoever has managed to read and understand what follows at least in those points will understand that these are essential measures to at least partially try to regulate the labour market, for 106 thousand unemployed are not an incentive for advance. In the past, we have witnessed, and I believe that even in the future, this matter will not be able to be arranged quickly, that there has been a lot of employment or employment at the expense of a relationship, knowledge or search for people who are – and I am not speaking here for public companies, but also in the economy – the opportunity for those who have been looking for new people to show or show that they have some skills, that they have knowledge and, above all, willingness to work. As a rule, as the bill-maker points out, in many jobs candidates have already been selected in advance, all interviews have already taken place, sometimes even a medical examination, when they have to be published on various notice boards due to the law of this matter. This, as I understand it myself, both the Minister and some debaters, caused unnecessary costs and also time on the part of employers to prepare this. Even more so, after needless time was spent on job seekers, as they also applied for such calls and aimed to write applications for employers as much as possible, to find important information that might be interesting for potential employers and to waste time needlessly. That's why I've been visited several times by people who were looking for jobs in my office, where they simply told me that if the legislation changes, to regulate this thing in this direction, they think it's stupid to waste time and money needlessly. They told me how it works in practice. If there was an invitation to tender, they asked directly for a human resources service or if they knew someone at the company to tell the truth, whether it was an open invitation or a candidate already selected. 99% had answers if they had already been chosen. That is why this law, or solution, is certainly a major step forward. Also, things that regulate or remove administrative obstacles that the law is following are a significant shift forward, but I hope you do not expect that in a month or two for over 100,000 unemployed jobs to be significantly faster or easier. He won't. It is important, however, for those who in their 50 ’ s, or 10, 5 years before retirement, to lose their jobs. After the experiences we have experienced, such people have often been left to themselves, not having the slightest chance of getting a job. They did, like they did, from a gray economy to living at the expense of a partner or savings. In this way, one who is 50 years old or even more and has 10 or even more years of work ahead of him may have this advantage in finding employment – I can say positive discrimination – that he will maintain working conditions or that he will be able to stay in a social environment all the time, so that he will not close himself between four walls and wait for retirement. I think that this part, in particular this population, will be able to bring about great changes for the better. I would therefore appeal that not only in the debate that is taking place today, but also then, until the amendments are tabled and, if there is any other public presentation or anything, let us all put together, indeed, all together, to find possible shortcomings and hidden traps of these solutions of the law that we have, and also to propose improvements, but not with some populism, with some rejection, with some spreading of untruths in the public, how harmful this law is, how it will cause new and new anomalies in the labour market. Let us all do this once more together, and let those who will continue to prepare, as best they can, with some consensus. I am confident that in a few months or a year's time, this will be reflected in the greater employability of people, the lower unemployment, and that this cycle of economic downturn will not only stop, but may also start to grow slightly. Only this, I repeat, will only contribute to the fact that, on the topic of pensioners we discussed earlier, we can expect their situation and situation to improve, especially our young people who are already unemployed – although there is a lot of structural unemployment here, but also those who are in education programmes, especially in the areas of science and technology and similar areas where the labour market is looking for their services or their work – to end education with some optimism and at least partially hope that they will get a job. I am sure that this marriage will also contribute to this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! I will support the proposal for the Labour Market Regulation Act at first reading. That doesn't mean the law is good. The weakness of the law is that no concrete measures have been proposed for young people. Why did I stress the young? We are talking about young people as our future, but in this law at a given time, we will still have to study and what to do in this area. The principle of the bill is a principle of flexible security, not of safe flexibility as we wish. People working and looking for work would be able to provide an environment that gives them a certain degree of security, which is a condition that they can also introduce flexibility. When people lose their jobs, lose their jobs, they have to trust, they need someone to help them. The law introduces a new service, the provision of temporary and occasional work. This enables employers to carry out legal and occasional work. In the presentation of the position of our Group of Positive Slovenia, this was very widely explained by the colleague mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. This law also refers to the possibility of reactivation and certain earnings for unemployed and over 50 years of age, as well as pensioners and other beneficiaries, as proposed by law. In 2011, the current largest coalition party opposed small work solutions. Today it is proposed, but occasional work should not be done by students and students. There are no contributions from occasional work, no other rights from work, and the proposal for a law on these works does not give workers rights arising from the rights of work. I'm thinking of a retirement age. The law, unfortunately to be said, will further affect the unemployed, as the law provides for a reduction in monetary compensation in the first three months of unemployment. This is a reduction in the dose percentage in the first three months from 80% to 70%, in the next nine months from 60% to 50%. Labour market reform should aim at flexible legislation, greater mobility, greater flexibility, adequate social security. Structural changes in the economy, targeting new products and services, employment of highly educated workers, including young people, are also urgently needed. This legislation promotes long-term unemployment and the possibility of including the unemployed in the labour market. Labour market dynamics are therefore lower, employee mobility is also lower, and employers cannot respond quickly enough to the environment. Today, in addition to employment, creative and accessible jobs must also be the goal. We will support the bill because we, too, want the good of Slovenia, especially for citizens and citizens, and because we want the coalition to show what the opposition said yesterday to prove that we will not only increase the number of unemployed, but that the coalition and the government will move on as soon as possible to the concrete effects of changing labour legislation. I am sure that the effort will be, the support will be, even by the opposition, if there are the right solutions, but not the solutions that will lead our young students to look outside the Republic of Slovenia into Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The minister wanted a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u172	Thank you very much. The Labour Market Regulation Act does not refer to concrete measures for specific groups of unemployed people, as this is what active employment policy programmes are talking about. The law lays the groundwork for these programs. Since you have initially pointed out that the law brings nothing to the young unemployed, I can inform you of the action taken by the active employment policy which has taken place in the mandate of this Government and which will experience a substantial upgrade in the future. This is the so-called first challenge. This measure is intended for young first-time job seekers, now up to the age of 26, after a new period of up to 30 years. Through this programme, we intend to provide more than a thousand young people with a first job in the future, and this seems to me to be a very important measure, accompanied by other measures of active employment policy. This measure is also intended to be upgraded by a measure for the elderly, which will also apply to this target group, in particular to the target group of the largest proportion of the unemployed. These are especially those over 55 years of age, and you can also expect to upgrade these measures here. The law cannot regulate individual active policy programmes, but it gives extensions and gives effective implementation of these measures, and I have therefore given you this information. As regards the reduction of unemployment benefits in the first three months, let me draw your attention to the international comparison and the unemployment trap index. The unemployment trap index is an index referring to the income ratio that the unemployed person receives from the country or from the employment agency and its expected salary. If this ratio is close to 1 or, if the unemployment benefit is identical or very close to the expected salary, there is no great motive to take the job, even if it is offered. When it was said earlier that we want to encourage employers to work through labour market reform, on the other hand, we need to prepare the unemployed to accept employment if it comes. Understand, lowering the traps of unemployment not in the sense of, I don't know, squeezing the material position of the unemployed, but motivating them to actively seek employment or receive employment for the job offered. As regards the comparison between small work and temporary and occasional work of the unemployed, let me draw attention to the three essential guards who are here and who are different from what you proposed at the time in small work. The first is that intervention for the unemployed is possible when we are talking about the intervention of temporary and temporary work, only through the employment agency, which has a review of the labour market between employers and knows where temporary and occasional work of a substitute for regular employment could be carried out. We don't want that, we want that little work to be done is just filling the gap when there's no employment, but it's a temporary, casual job, and we think it's better for the unemployed to take on this job than to wait for a regular job that isn't. Thus, the fuses are that this is possible only through the intervention of the institution. The fuses are also in a lower quota of hours than was envisaged for small work. It is not true that, from temporary and occasional work, nothing would count as pension and disability insurance. Article 18 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, ZPIZ-2, which we propose, states that insurance contributions are also charged from this basis, which means that there is also an extension for this insurance component.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Here's a replica, Mrs. Brunskol.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Maybe I wasn't very understanding at some point, but I have to take this. Thank you for the explanation, Mr Minister, especially because I wonder why the unemployed, for example, in the White Landscape, where he worked in the textile industry, would pay 30 or 35 years now reduce the compensation. It should be noted, however, that the infamous ZUJF has abolished the hospital's compensation for the period of unemployment, which can lead the unemployed to an even greater financial abyss in the long term. That's what I mean, including problems like this. Therefore, it would not only be about reducing from 80% to 70% and then further – it is about the difficult problems of people. It is difficult for someone living in a demographically threatened area to say that he is actively not looking for employment if more than 20% of those seeking work are over 50 years of age and cannot really get a job. It's purely generalized, understand me, it's hard. People are living really hard, and they're looking for a job. An example of the area of Pocolpja is one such example, for sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u175	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u176	Dear Member, you are talking about these people who are unemployed, elderly. We do not reduce any compensation to those who are already in the institution because they receive it. These need in particular new jobs and economic recovery measures and do not expect referendum stumbles on the proposed actions of this Government, which you are signing, even for the White Country. These people need, in particular, new jobs, economic recovery, a larger economy of activity. You're working with us on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The largest social security guarantee for employees is a well-functioning, evolving economy. The question is why businesses, employers, are hiring. A simple answer – because they need employees. At a time when they do not need them, legislation must be such as to allow for the burden of those workers who do not need them to be taken over by the State. Such legislation that we now have is most damaging to employees because it creates false security. Today I have allowed myself to hand over the principle of labour market reform on 22 pages. There's 30 years of my experience, 10 years of working and 20 years of working. I've never had any problems. If you do quality, timely work as an employee, you don't have any problems. If it doesn't suit you, and if you think you're useful enough, you'll find work elsewhere. When you're an employer, you don't usually have any special problems if you're being corrected. Quality, fast, quality and creative work were always expected. If I make a little joke, I am expected for the first time in Parliament in this job, not for the first time. I'm expected to press the button when someone calls me. Interesting. That I am not making any proposals, so I have made proposals. If we had a serious employer, probably in the image of the President of Parliament, he would have forgiven us all by now. In fact, the argument – when we adopted one of the last laws, we put an amendment and a second amendment on each article of the law. Is that a quality job? We'd all be fired because we're doing a bad job. The legislation adopted by our predecessors was bad, so we are in crisis now. I hope it's different in the future. Mr. Minister, I ask you, why is there no neighbouring Austria in this comparison, which has one of the best flexible laws that protects good workers? What will happen if this legislation is not adopted? Nothing. For the past 10 years, we have been stifling the economy and the creative power of the population, and we will continue to do so. Nothing's going to happen, the trend is going to move on, and we're going to sink and choke with it. A secure job is not provided by the state, nor by the company, but by the most employees themselves, with quality, responsible work. Those who were employers know that even when people left because of such or other problems, good employees – I do not purposely use the word workers, because it is a narrow term because they are considered to be physical workers in some companies where only physical work is done – get a job immediately or in neighbouring Austria or Italy, some elsewhere or here. So they're looking for a job. This legislation does not protect good workers, but only bad workers. After Gauss we have 5% to 15% of the poor workers, 70% to 90% of the average, purely correct and good, and 5% to 15% excellent. This legislation, which exists and which is also proposed, which is under-reform, still protects the bad workers and souls of the company, destroys businesses. If we want to make a good economy, it is one of those important laws that we will start doing differently. That's true, and we could read it in all the newspapers. There's something else I'd like to say about a variety of programs. Let us burden the economy, give freedom to people, and the active employment policy has only increased the number of unemployed twice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mrs Alenka Jeraj has the floor, Mr Jožef Horvat is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. The number of unemployed in Slovenia is very high and therefore we are all aware of the need to do something. What the state, the government, can do is to strengthen some measures of active employment policy. We know a variety of programs. An opportunity for me, a subsidy for self-employment and so on. We often hear that new jobs need to be created. We know that they are not created by the government, that they are created by businesses, if the legislation is friendly, if it is simple, if there are not a whole bunch of administrative obstacles, that those companies that want to expand the activity are prevented by a variety of procedures. You claimed or claimed that you had prepared a whole series of measures that we did not support. Of course, some are not, but because we did not believe that they could bring something smart or that they would catch, we nevertheless voted in favour of the law on subsidizing part - time work. That's when you said we'd keep 10,000 jobs. Are we or aren't we? We don't know if we have, most of these companies have failed about six months or a year later, and we've spent a few million on a very bad result. That is why now you have laws that we believe will be taken into account, as we have assessed those measures that we have drawn up in 2009. Four months after the appointment of the new government, in April 2009, we have already prepared the first package of measures — and the minister has also talked about it — and then two more. Back then, there was a time when we could keep many companies alive, but we did not take the right steps and accept the right things. Even your president, now a candidate for the President of the Republic, admitted that you misjudged some things. You didn't want to listen to us, and that's why we're here today. That is why we need more flexible labour legislation, which is why there is always a dilemma or agreement between employers and trade unions, which also makes forgiveness easier. But what we want is that if someone's easier to forgive, it's faster to get a job. This moment is not possible because we lost jobs every day, despite the fact that you talked all the time about keeping jobs, but at the same time day after day we lost jobs. We know what number we've already reached today. My colleague said they'd hurt the unemployed if they got their unemployment pay cut, but because we want these people to get a job, not that they're forever unemployed and they've got some kind of replacement, and we unlock them somewhere, and we say that's okay now. These people need to get back to work as soon as possible, because we know how quickly after a few months you lose contact with what you've been doing. Things change very quickly, and then the worker becomes more difficult to get back into the work that he may have done before. The goal is to hire as many people as possible without talking about the unemployed. Of course we must and must have some security, but our goal must be to get people to work and to have as few unemployed as possible. That is why I also support temporary and occasional work, and if you will allow me to recall a little bit about small work. We objected to a small part because you wanted to include under one umbrella all the pensioners, the unemployed and the students, and to pass on to this student guide system, which we know is the main culprit for the exploitation of students or we know what we saw in the past when grandparents were working on grandchildren or nephews' tips and so on. You wanted to take this to a little work and to the pensioners and the unemployed. That is why we have opposed this because we have estimated that the problem we have in student work will be passed on to a much larger segment. Since we know how much control is in this country — worse — that solution would certainly be very bad. Today, a number of people are asking why they would go to work for 500 euros if they got a refund of 400 euros. Here I agree with the proposal and with the minister, who says that if there is a very small difference between what someone gets as unemployment compensation and some minimum wage or one of the lower wages, he will not be very interested in getting a job soon. And I don't want to say that most people in the office don't want to get a job or do whatever it takes to get a job. But some take advantage of it and make fun of the one who goes to work for 500 euros. We need to do something to make people feel that things are a little fairer and fairer, and that someone is not working for someone who is exploiting all the ratings that we give him in this country. I therefore support the Labour Market Regulation Act, as well as any further steps we will take in this regard. But I also expect alignment with the unions, and that the final version will be as much as everyone likes. There will never be 100 percent or employers or unions or probably us, the opposition and the coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor, instead of Mr Richard Branislj, the mags are being prepared. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary-General. We have always agreed in this mandate that greater economic activity, economic recovery, economic growth, etc. is necessary. These are the concepts of which and in which and around which we have united. I would also like to allow Minister Visiak to have great wisdom and great happiness in negotiating with the social partners, who are certainly extremely demanding. I would also like everyone, including those involved in the negotiations, to be aware that the economic crisis in Slovenia will be solved by economic operators or businesses, not by Parliament, not by trade unions. When we come to that knowledge, I think we'll be able to take solutions more easily. The adoption of solutions is in the final stage of this Parliament's task, but, at least as far as I am concerned, when the solutions are negotiated, I just wish they were good to be able to boost Slovenia's competitiveness. This, let me remind you, dropped by 20 places on the competition scale in 2010, I think 59 countries. For 20 cities we fell in 2010 and landed there somewhere in 51st place. It's a disaster. I would like this measurement to be taken into account by those negotiating for the labour market for the labour relationship law, etc. We must also ask ourselves and answer whether we are really so good in Slovenia that we work only 37.5 hours a week. Are we really that brilliant? Then we're probably the best in Europe, but we're not. We all know we're not. It would also be good for us to look a little bit at how the labour market works, because the legalities of the market apply. Although this is not the case, thank God that this is not a trade in goods, this is not a market for services. There are people on the labour market and therefore we need to be very careful. Once again, it would be good to take a little look at the solutions in those countries that are now the most successful in the world and in Europe. Some of you mentioned neighbouring Austria today. I must say, I am delighted with some of the solutions in neighbouring Austria. I'm not thrilled to have our people working there, especially from Pomurje, from Koroška. There are about 12,000 of them a day. Let me point out here that in income legislation we have to be very careful when we think about them. But let's look at Austria. While the financial and economic crisis has only deteriorated in our country, Austria appears to be a model of successfully overcoming Europe's economic problems. Among other things, they have the lowest unemployment rate throughout the European Union and the number of active workers is even increasing. With about 4% of official unemployment, so-called full employment of the population is even approaching. It's about the labour market. In Austria, it is possible to terminate the contract for no reason and the worker can obtain it in the middle or at the end of the month. Not to be misunderstood, I always stress that I am for the union movement, that I am for the protection of the worker, but every employer knows that man, worker, employee of his greatest capital. This is the company's largest capital. Even if flooding or fire destroys the factory and people stay, the company's biggest capital remains, the rest are people. No smart employer is going to fire a worker overnight. I am not discussing or thinking in the direction that the employer should be given all the power to fire the worker when he gets up on his left leg. That's not what this is about. The remuneration for unemployment is limited to half a year in Austria and the amount depends on the earnings over the last two years, the age and the number of children, etc. The classic departures, as we know them in Slovenia, were abolished by the Austrians in 2003 when they switched to the new system. Employees before this year have rights from the old system, which is fine. I would like to conclude with this my debate that sometimes we only listen to important and extremely successful Slovenian economists who have some knowledge of how they manage in this cruel, extremely competitive world. These are usually those who appreciate their worker or employee. In this context, I also understand legislation which constitutes a change of regulation in the labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u183	Thank you very much. I'd like a word, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u184	Your Honor! The second time was mentioned in the Austrian case. Any solution in labour law or labour market regulation legislation comes from a tradition that has its own history. We Slovenians have a specific tradition and have ratified in our independence some of the conventions of the International Labour Organisation. The Austrians did not ratify it. Under these circumstances, forgiveness is without reason, except in exceptional cases, contrary to this ratified Convention of the International Labour Organisation. Whether we have ratified this or not, as we have ratified, I think it would be impossible to bring this solution through social dialogue and coordinate with the social partners. I do not think it is necessary to make the labour market more flexible even without it, in accordance with the Convention that we have ratified. When some point to an Austrian example, they point only to certain things of this Austrian appearance. They don't point to other circumstances, and, believe me, they're all very connected. I think that trade unions in Slovenia would agree to a number of solutions following the Austrian example if Slovenian employers agreed on, say, a comparable amount of wages, such as in Austria.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hočevar, get ready for Dr. Andrej Crnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. Once again a nice greeting to all present. I deeply agree with the view that Achilles' fifth Slovenian economy is the labour market. In addition, I believe that there is still too much thought in our society that employers are exploiting their employees. This is probably true in some cases, but this assumption is offensive to all those owners who sincerely seek to provide the collectives they run with a chance of survival. In these difficult times, some are willing to give up their profits in order to stimulate their workers, realizing that only satisfied employees are productive. When we talk about the area of the labour market, it comes to mind the quote by Henry Ford when he said you could take away all his machines, tear down all his factories, but leave him his men and build his empire again. I would like to see this thought somehow embodied by our unions, when, Mr Minister, you are sitting at the same table with them, and that you actually realize that good employees, good workers, good public servants need not be afraid of flexibility in the labour market, which is one of the objectives of the Labour Market Regulation Act. If I touch on another objective that this law somehow wishes to introduce into our practice or systemicly saves, to reduce the employment trap, I must agree that we are talking here about the relationship between the remuneration received and the salary received. Although I, too, deeply feel for the unemployed who may be uncompetitive in today's situation, it is regrettable that statistics show that they are the most employed during the period when their remuneration runs out. I believe that the reduction from 80% to 70% of the first three months and the reduction from 25 to a maximum of 18 months is not so drastic, and we are still far above some European countries to which we like to compare ourselves. In the Citizens' List, we are delighted with every proposal and solution that reduces administrative obstacles. In this novel of marriage, we find quite a few. One of them is that the private employer is no longer obliged to publish applications or the need for workers on so-called PD forms. We also agree with the solution that this commitment remains for the public sector and businesses in majority state ownership. In addition, data on the amount of monetary compensation that Durs will now provide through the so-called REK forms will relieve employers, as they are now provided by the latter. The innovation introduced by the novel to obtain the right to a financial compensation also under a written agreement on the termination of the employment relationship will, in our view, also increase flexibility as conditions and specific practices differ, and it is right to follow or anticipate different living and business circumstances in laws. The criticism I have on the novel touches on the form of works we call occasional and temporary work. This proposal is good if it does not restrict this form to pensioners and unemployed persons over 50 years of age and some other very narrowly defined groups. There are no reasons why we should restrict these new forms of work in the Civil Gazette. In other developed countries, too, it is unknown, and in this form we see the entry point for young people to regular employment. This form was also used in Germany and contributed to the reduction of the scope of the so-called black work. In this consideration, we will support this law, but in the framework of coalition coordination, we will be committed to a solution that each work will be considered and that this temporary and occasional work will allow for a wider selection of our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor, then Mr Mirko Brulc is prepared. There is no Mr. Joseph Jerovsk, I suppose he will not then discuss. Mr Brulc, instead of Mrs Polence Komar, Mrs Truda Cinderella is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u188	Mr Minister, it is true that in your previous mandate you have proposed a whole range of measures, but without positive financial effects and in the direction of even greater indebtedness. But you were masters in suggestions on how to lower taxes. These were the proposals of the then opposition MPs. Today, you are lowering unemployment benefits, reducing the time taken to receive benefits, temporary work is not included in the retirement age, etc., which indicates that the unemployed are themselves guilty because they are unemployed. The labor market's a mess, there's no work. Where are the measures taken by the Government during this period? The measures are, but the effect is not, so there is an increasing number of those who are willing to work for free, which is a disaster, excellent for capitalists, even for some government, because people come to work for free, just to show themselves to be introduced – this is the exploitation of people. This is not the kind of country we want to have, and this is happening to us, and this is a terrible pressure on those who are doing well, because also the Minister of the Interior has said smoothly that we will replace 600 police officers, those who are unemployed and will carry out police duties. So much demagogy as has been said today is not healthy for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u190	Dear Mr Brulc, in the mandate of your Government, we have proposed laws to encourage economic activity and make the country less indebted than you without encouraging economic activity. You just ate that money. You divided it into people. The impact on the economy has not had a bearing on the further decline in economic activity, and that is also why we are here today. If we had taken some of our measures, immediately at the outset, we would have seized and, instead of subsidising the waiting for work at home and subsidised part-time, subsidised the work and the results of the work. If this approach were then announced, we would probably be in a different position today. But for billions and billions of dollars, we owe this country, we create a huge army of unemployed people, we put the economy on its knees. This is the result and balance of your reign, which you now want us to plant as cowardly eggs. No, we will never accept this and these arguments do not confirm any figures that have taken place in recent years. On the contrary, we are now trying to take two key steps. Towards tightening the belt, reducing the consumption of the country and, on the other hand, towards economic recovery. Today, despite our high debt, we can still afford this, and it is essential and we must start the economy on the one hand and, on the other hand, enable the economy to work. We are doing this through labour market reform, and if you have any better proposals, please, we are vulnerable to them.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u191	Unfortunately, there's really no time to replicate. Mag. Truda Cinderella has a word, Mr. Janez Vasle is ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. Labour market reform must be based primarily on job conservation and creation. The economy needs to offer such conditions that this will make it easier to adapt to the market situation so that it can employ an additional workforce without fear. The only way to maintain and improve the general standard of living for all in the country in the long term is by creating new jobs. In times of economic crisis, every job and every income is valuable, so it is necessary to offer everyone an opportunity to work and to offer the opportunity to adapt the economy faster and more effectively to uncertain market conditions. This enables, among other things, flexible forms of work, among which are currently mainly student work and work through the company and authorship contracts. More than the amendment introduces, temporary and occasional work without restrictions should be included, which would be an opportunity for individuals to be re-activated and gained experience and additional earnings, and we help employers to respond more flexibly to market demands. It is an opportunity to finally unify the various flexible forms of work and introduce a more unified system of occasional and temporary works, in which we also include student and student work, while at the same time opening temporary and temporary work for already employed, unemployed and retired persons. Blinding the eyes before the fact that there is work to be done during the afternoon or at the weekend is a missed opportunity to reduce the labour market to black and to waive the taxes and contributions that could be collected from this title, giving both the opportunity and the opportunity to make additional profits. Finally, the economy also needs to be burdened with over-administrative administration. However, a certain extent of responsibility for the social welfare of employees needs to be transferred to the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Starman has the floor, Mr Matjaž Zanoškar is preparing. After him, Mr. Dragan Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that. We have been discussing for almost 10 hours and thanking all colleagues who have said something about the two laws that we have on the table or have made some good proposals within about one hour. However, I am disappointed by those who have successfully discussed for nine hours what was before, chicken or egg, or which government was better, which was worse, which opposition and position was better and what someone said. It's a waste of time. I don't think it's right for us to spend too much time on this and not commit ourselves to the law. All governments have been pretty bad, but we are in a situation like this, and I think it's time to stop discussing it. Since we've lost so much time, I'm gonna tell the story. There, in an ancient Egypt, was a very cruel Pharaoh and ruled. Everyone knew. They all cursed him. He too was aware of this and decided to go among the people to see what they thought of him. Asking the average, everyone said, "Terror, horror, horror!" And luckily, one very, very old female asks her, "What do you think of our ruler?" She says, "Oh, God give him a long life." He says, "How come? Others talk about it differently." She says, "You know, I'm very old. Many have changed, these rulers of ours, but I know well that everyone who has come has been worse than the last." So I wouldn't focus too much energy on changing governments every 14 days, because we don't have any benefit from it, and it's highly likely that it's going to get worse. Now there's something else about marriage. Labour law, labour market reform, it sounds good. We are looking forward to these changes, but I think there may be too many expectations. I don't know. We have jobs, employees, employers. Employers and employers know damn well what to do. The state too narrow and framed various forms, setting too many limits. I think we should find a way for the state to do just what it has to do. This means that it would enable everyone to work as hard as possible, both permanent and occasional, and I don't know what else. The employer needs a job. He needs a worker adequately trained for a particular job. Let us allow him to agree on the value of this work, to agree on the gross price and net price he will receive and on all conditions. Let us, for the sake of our work, say that work, be taxed at certain rates, let each contribute, let all go to the pension base. For God's sake, why do you have to limit a student to 5,000 euros, someone to work 60 hours, someone to work 25 hours, nobody can do anything? Let, for God's sake, someone work for a thousand hours a day, if they can, or for a month. If he pays all the contributions, the country will get its own, we will all be satisfied and there will be no unfair competition in the labour market. Let us once gather enough power and not copy these molds to make one really simple, transparent legislation. Let's make it possible for people who want workers who are looking for jobs on the market to have an opportunity somewhere to get information about what the labour market offers, in all its forms, for what they are. That'd probably be good. Europe has much more to do with social entrepreneurship, where there is a lot of space. There is also a lot of work in Slovenia, and much more could be brought to Slovenia if they were more competitive. If not, we have unprocessed fields, forests, oil imports. The whole kind of thing, and there are a lot of other things. On the other hand, we are so small — and we are smart enough not to be able to find enough work to create a higher added value than we do. It is only necessary to encourage people, to motivate them in some way and to ensure the basic competitive capacity of the economy. That's a lot to talk about. I have said many times what the economy needs – nothing but a similar environment and the same conditions for work that competing countries have in us. One of the things that is important – we would do a lot here in the economy and I will always say that – is that the taxation of work should be slightly smaller. Other things are important — that we do not have bureaucratic obstacles, that we do not have disproportionate matters. It will soon turn out that soon it will only be settled to find these much-needed jobs, but we must not get too involved in all these matters. Please, let us think in this direction, to make things easier, to find and find this goal, not to make unfair competition in the labour market, no matter what it is, whether it is large or small or added or whatever. Let's unify everything in one form. We have a temporary work contract, where nothing matters and an employer and an employee agree – I have to fix this chair, I pay you. Tell me what you need, we'll deal. It's such a gross cost, and if you do this for those two hours, I'll pay you that much and it'll go to the cashier's office. I think that this issue needs to be greatly simplified, and it is essential that we allow as many jobs as possible, and in this way, with such an approach, with such simplifications, we would come from this, much less this so-called grey economy, which thank God that we have it. Our problem is that we don't know any benefits for the common good from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor. You won't? Mr. Dragan Bosic, please. Please prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat and then Mr Jože Tanko and the Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u196	Thank you for this time. I don't have enough time to tell a story. I know some of them. I'll do it another time. I'd say I'd give my yes to the Minister. That means he's going into the next round. In the next round, however, it will depend heavily on negotiations with trade unions, with employers. It would be difficult to comment on the solutions in this labour market reform because they have not yet been met. But I would like to remind you of a vision I don't see here. This will be very important to me in the future. This is a vision based on work as a value and on trust for young people and respect for the elderly. I am talking about the two reforms I see together. We are now talking about the labour market, but the pension is the first one, due to the problem of late entry into the labour market, which Slovenia is evident and the problem of rapid exit from this market. If I had seen these two synergisms in my vision, young and old, then I would also have thought about supporting in advance. I must say that these historic debates did not amuse me at all today. They were pretty spirited, in the sense of "you could, but you didn't, you don't know." I think this debate was too much. Maybe a little more substantive next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor. I see she's not here. Mrs Iva Dimic, prepare Mr Ivan Hršak. Mrs. Dimic won't be here for a while. Mr. Ivan Hršak. He's not here either. Dr. Gregor Virant instead of mags. Trude Cinderella. He's not here either. Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u198	Have a nice hello again. Maybe a few more words about this marriage. I expected a more substantive debate, so I agree with the predecessor. Why? I also hoped for more substantive support from the Members of Positive Slovenia, who are full of mouths and promises to support the reform measures of this Government. Even with the SD, I expected some more concrete approximation of our proposals, given that they have been very interconnected lately, but apparently today's debate, at least part of it, was about who was better, who was worse, who was worse, even though the discussion showed that Janez Janša's government was responsible for everything, whether its part that prepares its laws, in the coalition or in the opposition. I would like to respond to a few of the concerns raised during the debate. One thing about a brain drain — it bothered me a little bit or it froze me. All of a sudden, this government is responsible for the brain drain. I know quite a few friends who went not only from my congregation but also from abroad. Not guilty, not left, not right government. The problem is that the number of unemployed has skyrocketed, and many young people have encountered two concerns, either staying at the employment office or their ideas and selling their knowledge abroad, and many have found a more suitable business or living environment abroad and want to do something better for their lives. With regard to brain draining, the same is true with regard to decomposition, which we suddenly hear about poverty again. Suddenly, after 4 December 2011 and in February 2012, again, the word poverty, delineation, began to appear mainly in the media and by the opposition, as if we had not seen in the previous mandate the catastrophic economic and social measures and indicators that had testified to this. Once again, this government is not the one that has reached nearly 120,000 in the number of unemployed. In the previous term, we reduced the unemployment rate, so that when we were reducing unemployment, poverty was much lower. It was said that we are not dealing with reforms, that there are no economic measures. I have just seen on the government's website all three measures, especially in the field of the economy, so that I invite the opposition, we can also send them a link to all these measures so that they do not think about how nothing is going on. It does not only happen in the field of labour legislation, it also happens in the field of other segments or other ministries, which, by means of individual measures, come against citizens, citizens, that individual measures, or with less administration or otherwise, are easier to reach. In the SDS, we never said that all those who are unemployed are lazy. This must be strongly rejected at this time, because mainly from some viewpoints on the part of Positive Slovenia it has been said that we always say that all unemployed are lazy. We always advocate that someone works hard to get paid for the job, and we are disturbed by this limit between the lowest wages for the work done, which takes almost 200 hours a month — a very small difference between those at home. I personally differ greatly from those who would like to work, but for such or other reasons they do not find work, and between those who — we must probably all agree that there are some individuals in this country who are exploiting their unemployment, or that they are working in black or that they are reaching out to an individual employer, and such cases are in practice huge, with the excuse that you only sign that I am not able to work, and I will continue to work in the institution because it is better to be home and watch all those Spanish and Mexican continuations, than 8 hours in concrete work for maybe 100 or 200 Euros higher wages. So I agree with all those who really want to work, and they don't get the job. There is a country here to help them with various mechanisms. For those of you who avoid work, I have been very restrictive. Anyone who refuses to work twice or three times would personally have no objection to being erased from various records, because the situation is that some will never want to work, even if I do not know what to pay them. More has been said about coordination with the social partners and with the opposition. Perhaps even in the following law on how someone has cooperated with someone, someone who has not cooperated with them. I'd only touch two more things. One is the termination of the mandatory application. I strongly support this solution. Why? The more I look at this bill, the more I agree with these proposals, the more I particularly welcome the intention that in the law there is still a mandatory application at the Employment Office by companies owned by the majority of the country and by all those calls concerning employment in the public administration. Why? As has been said several times, mainly by the minister, these fictitious calls - it happened that someone was working through a student's passport in a particular company and the employer wanted to hire him but had to give him a public invitation. 100 or more people applied for this invitation, desiring to get a job, but they did not know that the employer was satisfied with the one who had had already worked through the student work. All the effort, especially the young, went to nothing, for everything had already been arranged. But I don't see any obstacles that if one of the employers at a youth's college work got confirmation that he was also worthy of regular employment, that he also hired him. I am also extremely disturbed by this, and by this I conclude, the feeling in our society, even by some Members, that it is very much possible that all economic operators are suddenly tycoons. If he's successful, if he's got a solid salary, let's call him a tycoon, how he doesn't support the workers, etc. In our environment, huge companies have gone bankrupt, and many are still at risk. Smaller economists are also very angry when they hear — even though they wake up every day and fall asleep with the thought of getting a job the next day, how they will pay for their workers — that they are being treated almost by the tycoons, because they can afford a little more pay than the worker who is there, say, for 8 hours, and he has to worry about almost 24 hours a day to get his employees a job. So I would really like to ask these employers, who are fighting for their bread every day and for the bread of their workers, not by tycoons, but by means of appropriate legislation, to enable them to be flexible and to be able to get as much employment as possible in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Proposer, Government, would you like to say anything else? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u200	Your Honor! Let me conclude by stressing once again what led us to this law. The aim is very important to achieve greater flexibility in the labour market, through simplification of procedures and, on the other hand, through the introduction of opportunities for temporary and occasional work, both for unemployed workers over 50 years of age and for those who are retired. We often hear public statements about why we give such and different assistance, social assistance, or compensation to people who could be given a job and for whom a job could be found. That's a very common observation. However, when we arrive with solutions, they are immediately stumbled by those who say that unemployed people need regular employment. I agree with that observation. True, the unemployed, especially the elderly, need regular employment. However, if there is no regular employment, it is better that we give them at least some work activity and also a decent pay for this work. That's what we're capable of. This also enables employers to be more flexible in the labour market, as they can legally obtain and engage people for part of their needs who do not have opportunities for regular employment or do not have a need for regular employment. This is much better than it is going on in black, even though one of the Members said thank God we have a black job. I think it's a shame that we don't legalise possible forms that would be a very simple substitute for black work and would mean legal work. Through solutions, we also allow the so-called temporary and occasional work of pensioners. Numerous proposals from pensioners, as well as employers, are to engage pensioners even when they meet the conditions for retirement or when they are retired. This work can significantly improve their social situation while at the same time doing something useful or making employers more competitive. This is an important set of issues that we want to address. I must say that we have a relatively large problem with coordination with the social partners in this regard. Social partners, especially trade unions, and not particularly trade unions, are opposed to the possibility of temporary and occasional work over 50 years of age. So this solution is relatively questionable in relation to the course of negotiations. Through the reduction of the trap of unemployment, we want to motivate employment to be achieved also by those unemployed who are recipients of monetary compensation and consider this money compensation to be a right they first take advantage of and then, later, actively seek employment. We want to intervene in these compensations to motivate this group, so that if a job is found, they accept this job, but not to look for circuits and reasons not to accept these jobs. A very important measure, which the Secretary of State referred to in the introduction and has been relatively overlooked, which constitutes a conceptual shift, is that we want to protect the employment of an individual rather than his/her job. We therefore assume that if the work of an individual worker becomes excessive for business reasons, that the employer no longer has a job for him, that the worker and the institution have to deal with this particular potential unemployed at the time of the cancellation period. This worker, whose work will be terminated for business reasons and given the relevant employer’s decision, must apply to the Employment Institute. The employer must inform the Employment Office that the work of this worker is unnecessary and immediately, at the time of the notice, the institution starts to work with this worker. Therefore, it is more likely that an appropriate offer will be made to this worker by the time the notice expires than if it is only when it actually becomes unemployed. For the Employment Service needs a certain period, it takes a few days, weeks to process and make an employment plan for an individual. All of this can happen after the current proposal within the notice period, within the current employment period, with a view to maintaining this employment. We also want to remove some administrative obstacles. Here he would stop at the obligation to apply for a job or type of work at the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment. We believe that this obligation of private employers to the institution often constitutes unnecessary bureaucratic work and requires work, both for the employer and for the institution. Unnecessary work. In fact, an employer who has a need for a worker – I am talking about a private employer – and who finds a suitable worker, does not need to intervene. Information from the institution means that the institution processes this information, irrespective of the fact that the employer does not want the intervention of the institution, it responds to the potential unemployed in the hope that it is worth trying. Then it is also necessary to engage in such attempts, respond, and according to our assessment of the costs, by employers and by the agency, unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles and work. The Employment Service is in the midst of such an army of unemployed people seeking employment for the unemployed, and therefore all of these people's burdens in terms of more efficient work are welcomed when we talk about finding employment for the unemployed, who are job seekers. Other burdens are, such as the fact that the Employment Office will subsequently obtain data on the rate of monetary compensation by the Tax Administration. Outsourcing procedures for active employment policy programmes have also been complemented. This law represents an important addition to, or an important addition to, the law on labour relations, which will be discussed below. Intensive coordination with the social partners and coalition coordination are taking place around the two. As you may have felt, the matter is still open at some points. This is not surprising, given that you are right that today you have just some intermediate text of what has been brought into line with the social partners until the moment of reception in the Government. With regard to the labour market law, we have already gone through this law with the social partners and we have only agency work as the final activity left for this Friday when we are talking about coordination. The Agency's work is also the content of the Labour Relations Act and we will therefore fully focus on this work in the 4 hour negotiation process this week. In labour market reform, there is an important labour law where we have processed three-quarters of the articles, and I can detect that, on one and the other issues, some 10 are open to such essential issues. I believe that it is with good will — and where will is, the way is also possible to conclude negotiations and come before the National Assembly in a second reading with amendments that will be in line with the social partners. I think that if we come with such amendments to harmonise, both in the coalition and in the opposition, it will be relatively simple.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I see there's still an interest in the debate, so I'm asking you to apply. I'm opening the application. I'm closing the application. They have been reported, but they no longer have time for discussion or of course it is time. We find that the number of applicants, as a professional colleague warns me, is too high. Repeat? Okay. We're re-applying. I'm reopening the application and please sign in. Mr Jakob Preseknik and Mr Minister have been reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u202	Thank you very much. I didn't think I'd sign up for it myself, but I'm fine. I don't see things as black and white as they've been shown. For example, earlier, a colleague named Jeraj mentioned subsidies to preserve jobs. On the contrary, as she believes, this was a good measure in the previous mandate, one of the good measures. I'm pretty sure there's a lot of company that's still alive that maybe they wouldn't. In all cases, it probably wasn't. In my opinion, we still have no problem with student work. This is certainly a tough nut, I agree, even after the events that took place in the previous term. I'm sure we don't have any loose ends about student services. We have tried and partially corrected this in the preliminary term of office, 2004-2008. Many things improved at that time, but there are still many problems. Earlier, one of the discussers, colleague Horvat, said, and I agree with him that it is necessary to respect and listen to those employers who are aware of the importance of good workers and good relations in the company. This was certainly also the thought or purpose of the drafters of this law, the Ministry, when this law was made up. This is the basis for good relations and good results, and ultimately also for new jobs. I walk many times around companies where I get good suggestions, especially in those companies that are good, that have good relationships with employees and also have the right results. Given that this is the first case, I'm going to count a couple of problems that managers in these companies face. I'm just gonna count a few things. For example, the problem of non-competitiveness, many times the non-competitiveness of older experienced workers, due to the various allowances they receive, due to the length of leave, etc. It's getting a little confused with the next marriage, but since I still have some time, I'm going to make it happen. The second thing that has been weighing us down for many, many years has been problems with the orientation of education. We've got our education completely out of order. We educate people we have nowhere to work, which neither the economy nor the economy needs, but we lack many professions for which we have no people at all, and in a few years, there will be no one to do them. The third problem I am listening to is various problems in the first job on medical examinations. The matter is divided between work and work and work for a certain period of time, and these medical examinations must always be carried out. I understand that this is done in employees like myself in these years, but in young people, at 25, 30 years of age, it is certainly too much. Last time I listened to something, I listened with interest to one of our television shows, where there was talk about families with four or more children. There was a problem there. The only criticism of the country was that the mother could stay at home with the children and with various ratings concerning pension and health insurance, including working age, but during this period she must not work even an hour per week, but at the same time at least what could happen to lose contact with the profession. This is an impractical measure, and in this area it is likely that mothers with multiple children should listen a little. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please. You won't? Okay, you don't have to. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal for a decision. that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide in the framework of the vote, on Thursday, 15 November 2012, 15 minutes after the end of the 6th item of the agenda or at 9 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS THE FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A WORK-TERM LEGISLATION The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 45 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government here to the Minister present, Mag. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u204	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The new Labour Relations Act is a more important part of the package called labour market reform. What is the key purpose of this law? The key objective of this law is not only to raise or increase flexibility in the labour market or to encourage employers to work under a normal standard of safety but also to reduce segmentation in the labour market. The interest of reducing segmentation in the labour market goes beyond the interests of both social partners, employers and employees, and from this goal the country is also looking forward to a new mission, a new message. In Slovenia we have an extremely segmented labour market. On the one hand, we have a large number of employees for an indefinite period of time in companies that have been stable in business for many years, decades. Here jobs are relatively safe, employees have a significant range of rights. On the other hand, we have an armada of young unemployed or job seekers who are subject to wild flexibility. There is virtually no job for an indefinite period, there is a whole bunch of different options, and one of the most widespread is a fixed-term contract, which is not the worst form yet. They are also worse, offering even less rights and stability. I think it is the task of the State to reduce this segmentation in the labour market through measures, and it is normal for it to give a little weight to the interests of employers. Employers want such wild flexibility for this form of people. We think it is very important that measures be taken to ensure stability for the future, especially for the young generation, for a stable life. Therefore, with certain restrictions on the conclusion of fixed-term contracts on the one hand and by simplifying the procedures for the termination of the employment relationship on the other hand, we want to encourage employers, stimulate them to work more for an indefinite period of time. In the proposal you have on the table, we have proposed the introduction of so-called fixed-term employment quotas. We do not insist on this proposal, and we can also replace it with other forms of disstimulating the conclusion of fixed-term contracts. Through solutions, we also want to simplify disciplinary procedures. We want to prevent abuses regarding the establishment of so-called straw companies. We want to adapt labour legislation to older workers, because we know that we want to increase our work activity and we want to make this legislation more favourable to older workers through labour law measures. We also want to achieve what has today been exposed to the fact that more things are regulated at the bipartite level. As far as wages are concerned, as far as allowances are concerned, as regards the other amounts of work-related costs, they are regulated at the bipartite level, between employers and employees. We don't want to prescribe anything other than some minimum standard. We want employers and employees to agree on this minimum standard. However, we are faced with the problem of agreeing on a relatively difficult one. I would be very happy if a number of things could be left to bipartite-level negotiations instead of labour law. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to achieve more goals by means of this law. The two objectives are to increase flexibility in the labour market while ensuring normal European standards for the protection of workers' rights, while reducing segmentation, employment in hindsight, in forms that do not offer future and stability, in particular for job seekers.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u205	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. Reform laws, laws that will affect our future more than usual, reforms on which our future depends should be very broadly coordinated. Politicians in the country should realise that only broad consensus on reforms can be successful and that only such solutions can be the best solutions, because we all love our country and we all want a successful path that will bring citizens and citizens a bright future. That is why, when we led the coalition, we always wanted to talk to the opposition about measures and the future and to adopt key reforms together. Thus, in the 2004-2008 mandate, in the framework of the development partnership, we offered the opposition a hand and the results of the cooperation were good. The lowest unemployment rate in the country's history, twice the economic growth rate in the EU countries, productivity growth, measures taken to improve the lives of the population and much more. If we continued this practice during the period 2008-2011 when we expected a similar invitation to participate by the then coalition, we would almost certainly not be here today. There is also now a proposal for cooperation on the table or on the table of laws that we want to adopt with you. You have received them, we expect your proposals to be effective, as they were during the first Janša government. Now we are where we are, and the measures that were now 3, 4 years ago are no longer valid. Today, there is a need for measures that would not have to be taken if they were to take the right steps. Changes in the labour market are a constant. We have talked a lot about them, talked about the urgency of change, the need for a flexible labour market, and we have unfortunately done little. The labour market in Slovenia is characterised by the fact that labour costs are high, that there are many unnecessary administrative barriers. It was precisely because of this situation that it was clear that there would be a crisis of forgiveness, which would not be problematic if the unemployed could quickly find a new job. This is not possible, because at the same time, very quickly, daily, we lost jobs. What is a problem for many employees is the difference between those who are employed for an indefinite period of time and those who are employed for an indefinite period of time. If the relationship used to be better, today's data shows a bad picture. If I say the data of the Employment Office for the period January to September this year – for an indefinite period, 9 000 870 jobs have been concluded, i.e. for a certain period of time 48 thousand 258, more than 5 times over for an indefinite period of time. For a certain period of time, there are young people who find it difficult to create their families, a single household. The system is very unfair to those who are employed for a certain period of time compared to those who are employed for an indefinite period of time. However, when it turns out that someone who is employed for an indefinite period of time is not doing his job well or is no longer in line with the needs of the employer, there is great difficulty in forgiving him or replacing him with a better worker. The one who works well is valuable to the employer, and will be interested in their business relationship being good. A worker who is satisfied, who likes to go to work, is effective and successful, which is also the interest of his superior. The employer is satisfied with a good worker and will not forgive him. However, it must be possible for it to be able in a relatively simple way to forgive or replace the worker for a more active, more effective one. The new Labour Relations Act provides for quotas to change this situation. We will see what the final solution will be because the law is still in coordination with the unions. But there will certainly be a step forward in this area. The new Labour Relations Act is also needed because we have observed daily violations of workers' rights by employers who were primarily interested in earnings, but not by the individual who earned it in his work. A few weeks ago, we had a thematic meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, where we were able to hear from experts in various fields of demographics, information and economics that workers enter the labour market in comparison with other countries and leave it relatively early. It is therefore necessary to adopt more reforms and laws together, with the same aim not to exclude them, but to complement the goals we have set ourselves – as many jobs as possible, as many employees as possible, as few unemployed. If this has already occurred, appropriate protection for the unemployed and assistance to get back to work as soon as possible. We keep hearing that the government and Parliament must create jobs. That's not working. However, the law and measures must create an environment in which jobs will be better created. An environment in which workers will be protected and not exploited, an environment where companies will be administratively and cost-effectively less burdened, an environment where inspection services will operate, as well as other institutions of the country. We believe that the new Labour Relations Act brings all of this, so we support it in the SDS Group. The law is the first step, then implementation and control of implementation are key.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u207	Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u208	Your Honor! We have already identified labour market reform, modernisation of employment policy as a high priority for our Government in the previous mandate. To this end, novels or a new law on working relations were also prepared. The basis of the law, as we are adopting today, has already been prepared in the previous term. At the time of the crisis, it became clear that, in the context of the economic crisis, the existing legal solutions no longer provide an adequate basis for the protection of workers, given that we have encountered numerous abuses of workers' rights in Slovenian journals more and more frequently. We are aware, as we were then aware, that the reform of labour law is also necessary in order to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. For many years now, international organisations, the OECD, the European Commission, have been assessing that the Slovenian economy is not competitive enough because it is heavily burdened by labour costs and because the labour market is too much. That is why employers often resort to the most flexible forms of employment that we know today as dirty, unfair forms of employment: student work, business contracts, copyright contracts and other formalised forms of work that give individuals very little or no social security. This deepens the segmentation in the labour market. The fact is, there is a marked imbalance in the labour market. On the one hand, part of employees with relatively high levels of protection and social security, on the other hand, are becoming increasingly vulnerable to any social security in the labour market. This phenomenon is particularly worrying given that the situation of young people in the labour market has deteriorated significantly in recent years. According to the study, the flexibility of the labour market in Slovenia, prepared by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, is almost 67% of young employees for a certain period of time, while the European average is 40%. It is also worrying that the unemployment of individuals with a high education rate is increasing. According to the Employment Office for April 2012, almost 10 000 unemployed persons with tertiary education were registered. It is also worrying to see a high proportion of the tertiaryly educated in the structure of the long-term unemployed, as they account for more than 5,000 long-term unemployed or 36% of all long-term unemployed. We have already laid the foundations for labour market reform in the previous mandate. We have passed the Labour Market Regulation Act, by which we have increased the social security of job seekers by raising monetary compensations. Our starting point was to increase security first so that we could increase flexibility. We don't follow flexicurity. We're following the safety of flexibility. There's an important difference here. People's safety so that the economy can be flexible. At the same time, a great deal of effort was made to implement the Small Work Act, by which we considered each work as a principle to reduce segmentation in the labour market, limit work to black and exploit student work. We have also adopted a new law on employment and work in black. Both laws, which would significantly improve the situation in the labour market and reduce the lawlessness of people, especially those forced into these forms of work, have unfortunately experienced a sad fate at the referendum. The responsibility for these questions is well known. The reform of the market prepared by the current Government is based on two laws. Under the new Labour Relations Act, reform proposals have also been introduced in the amendment to the Labour Market Regulation Act, which we have considered a little earlier. Above all, the latter can be said to increase flexibility by introducing the principle of forced temporary and occasional labour for over 50 years and by reducing unemployment benefits and significantly reducing the safety of workers. The solutions to the new Labour Relations Act are more balanced, although they are particularly non-problematic measures relating to improvements to the applicable law. Thus, provision is made for the possibility of the emergency cancellation of the contract of employment of the worker in the event of non-payment of social and health care contributions, the introduction of safeguards to prevent the exploitation of workers in the case of straw companies, the protection of the rights of agency workers is improved, the use of leave is more rational, the provisions in the field of inspection and criminal sanctions are improved. While all these measures are necessary, they improve the protection of workers' rights in the field of labour relations and do not have the characteristics of reforms. In view of the acute nature of the problems and the unequal situation of protecting people, this law is far from ambitious. The proposal for a labour relationship law also contains some proposals that form part of the reform, but it should be noted that solutions to date are inconsistent and, above all, not coordinated with the social partners. Since the Government has sent a proposal for labour market reform to the National Assembly, which has not yet been harmonised in the social dialogue, the reform is open at practically all key points. Today, when we hold a general debate on this law, even in the case of this law, we do not know what final solutions will be agreed upon between the social partners and the government. This raises the question whether the instruments for reducing work for a certain period are appropriate. In the event of fixed-term employment quotas being established, there is a fear that employers will make even more use of existing forms of precarious employment – contractual work and student work. The employment situation of young people will deteriorate in this way. It is also an open issue of shortening notices and reducing discharges. If, in the event of a reform of the Labour Relations Act in connection with the amendment of the Labour Market Regulation, we would really like to talk about real reform and not just revisions, then labour market reforms are missing new systemic solutions. One of them is certainly the introduction of a retirement fund to which employers and the state would pay. There is also another important component missing from the labour market reform proposal. Safe flexibility in the labour market should be strengthened by investing in education and training of workers, with active employment policies. Finally, reform should also include instruments to reduce work in black. We note that we will require consistent respect for the legal security of employees and legal security instruments. We can commend the introduction of the payment sheet as an executive address for the recovery of salaries and contributions, and we are building a declaration of cancellation or withdrawal from collective bargaining, which is an important civilisation gain of the international movement of employment to secure and improve its position. We recommend to the Government, trade unions and the economy that they set more ambitious objectives in the context of social dialogue, but this will also not contribute sufficiently to the ability of our society to recover the economy, so we need a new economic policy. However, for a new economic policy, the government will first have to give up most of its policy assumptions, which we have witnessed in the last year. Social Democrats will not oppose the proposal for a labour relationship law, as we assess that some of the proposals for measures represent some progress, in particular in the direction of greater protection of workers' rights, and, on the other hand, we find that the real reform of the labour market, which should be based on a dynamic balance between security on the one hand and flexibility on the other, unfortunately we cannot speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the National List, Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u210	Thank you, Vice President. The Labour Relations Act was sometimes called the Labour Constitution, and he deserved that name. At this moment, I have before me another draft law on working relations, which we cannot say is a reform law. This law is too ambitious to say that there are major reforms here. We will want this marriage to be better so that reforms are as similar. The legal arrangements for working relations should be such as to regulate the fundamental rights and obligations of workers and employers in mutual relations and to constitute minimum standards for regulating working relationships, all in a manner that would minimise the effectiveness of businesses and other organisations. Unfortunately, the current regulation of labour relations creates a lot of administrative burden for employers and imposes on them responsibility for social welfare for employees, which should be the responsibility of the State and not directly for businesses. In order for a particular organisation to survive and achieve success in an open market economy, it must be effective and competitive on an international scale. This can only be done by transferring social care to the state social security system and providing businesses and other organisations with similar rules on the labour market as are applicable to their competitors in developed European countries. Only in this way will Slovenian companies be able to compete equally with foreign partners, expand and open new jobs. Renovation of labour legislation must therefore be part of the policy of preserving and creating jobs and not the social policy. Good conditions for creating new jobs are the only way to maintain and improve the general standard of living in this country in the long term. The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and the European Commission have been reminding us for many years that our labour market is among the least flexible, most segmented and so least fair in the circle of developed countries. No change is necessary because of our good reputation; changes are necessary because of us, who have to earn our bread with modern labour market rules, fierce international competition. Now is the time or necessity for us to update our working legislation. The proposed Labour Relations Act brings some significant improvements to labour law. Let me just name a few. It simplifies formalities and reduces the administrative burden that businesses have had so far and adapts to the development of information technology, reduces minimum notices in the event of regular cancellation of the employment contract, further regulates workers' rights in the event of a change of employer due to the transfer of the company or part of the company, acquisition, merger or other legal business. It thus reduces the risks of repeating the sad stories of workers who have lost their last wages, pensions and other labour rights due to the redundancy of a straw company. The proposed law seeks to resolve the problem of the division of workers into workers for an indefinite period of time and employees by introducing fixed-term employment quotas, which is totally unacceptable for the National List. In the coordination phase of the law, the National Gazette noted that the regulation of allowances for working hours after the content of the tax is the same. Economic research for Slovenia and other developed countries has shown that the work-life allowance does not have a real basis for the productivity of older workers in relation to younger workers. It puts young people in an unequal position and artificially irritates the work of older workers and reduces employment opportunities for the elderly. The compromise proposal to bind the additive to the employer’s time and to transform it into a permanent allowance was rejected. The drafter also withdrew the original solution, which would regulate working time in Slovenia according to European rules. Employers in Slovenia pay a regress for their work while they are working, and in addition, they take a break for lunch, a job that workers have never done. Thus, according to labour costs, they are automatically less productive than in other countries. The labour market reform envelopes presented in June 2012 promised a real update of labour legislation. The solutions proposed in the National Assembly are the shadows of these original ideas and we hope not – a lost opportunity for a more serious and urgent need for labour market reform. At the stage of the second reading of the Labour Relations Act, the Civil Code will propose improvements in the direction of regulation, as is known by the most competitive European companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u212	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have been supporting the reform of legislation, which employers and employees have been waiting for for more than a decade. In an ecosystem market system supported and supported by the SLS, labour legislation should also be adapted and adapted to such a system, while ensuring the safety of workers and jobs. We support the provisions or provisions of this law that prevent the payment of employee contributions, the reduction of temporary employment opportunities or the prevention of abuse of this option, which should be allowed only in exceptional cases and for a maximum of two years. We support the reduction of administrative barriers and the costs of businesses in terms of employment and dismissal procedures. However, we need to maintain the protection of workers' basic or minimum rights in legislation, and we expect the new labour legislation to help improve the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, which will therefore be one of the levers for raising economic growth. In doing so, labour legislation must adequately protect workers, particularly vulnerable groups such as young, older ones, and we must not forget those who have or have a family, which the country must protect and promote through labour legislation. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we therefore want a friendly labour law to be maintained for the family. The rights of parents, especially mothers who care for their families, for their children, must be preserved and entered into marriage in the same way or in the same way as incentives for the first employment of young people. A new approach to employment, safe flexibility and simplified employment procedures and transitional and trial time in new employment will, among other things, help to reduce black work. We therefore support a new regime to prevent abuse in the case of the transfer of workers to so-called straw companies or the play of the employer's change institute by establishing solidarity responsibilities and shortening notices. Safe flexibility, especially in terms of the transition from the right to work to the right to work and the facilitation of transitions between jobs or other parts and between different employers, is seen in the parliamentary group as a positive solution and a new model in modern labour legislation. The new law should also ensure flexibility through more flexible procedures that are positive for employers and workers, which constitute greater safety for workers or a greater possibility of new employment, taking into account equal opportunities and preventing any discrimination. In the SLS Group, we hope that all partners in the negotiations, including this law, will find a unanimous solution to make the law more competitive for the economy and with safe flexibility to encourage employment. The move towards flexibility is essential, and individual smaller solutions are a matter of negotiation. In this regard, I refer mainly to the period of notice, recognition of the past work and, as regards the method of identification, the procedure for employment and forgiveness. It is particularly important to eliminate the inequality of employees for a certain period of time. The fact that there are more and more such jobs is known. Thus, employees are placed under applicable legislation in an extremely unfavourable and unequal position because they do not have the same rights as employees for an indefinite period of time. This form of employment also prevents them from accessing certain other rights. For example, they don't even get a loan in banks. That is why such changes to the law are necessary. The reduction of dualism or segmentation in the labour market as a result of differences in the position of workers will be eliminated if conditions for both forms of work are more uniform, i.e. workers working for a fixed period and workers employed for an indefinite period of time. Therefore, we have some questions and proposals on which we want further explanations and more precise definitions to be considered before the second reading. To examine whether the changes are sufficiently effective and encouraging in the area of fixed-term employment, so that employers will decide to employ these workers indefinitely, as the proposal strengthens the protection of the rights of these workers and limits this type of work for employers, and to propose that, in particular, for smaller enterprises or individual sectors, where the way of work is different, we allow greater flexibility and take into account the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce and determine the possibility of determining greater flexibility at the level of collective agreements. The question remains how to enable and encourage employers in the law to reward good workers, to ensure the protection of good workers, as this will also encourage others to be more effective, while simplifying procedures in the event of emergency cancellation or dismissal for reasons of fault or incapacity for business reasons and disciplinary proceedings. With guardians in law, to prevent the abuse of this institution simply for the sake of easier forgiveness. Ensure the supervision and effective legal protection of workers' rights over such arrangements and the arrangements for allowing for the regular termination of the employer’s employment contract during the probationary period, due to the failure of the probationary work of workers, especially since the notice period is only 7 days in this case. We therefore stress the importance of ensuring effective and adequate supervision and effective judicial protection. We therefore propose further examination and improvement of the provisions and regulations on the functioning of the relevant inspections, working courts and ensuring an effective part of the inspection. The transition to safe flexibility in employment is one step towards a more competitive economy, on the one hand, and on the other hand to an incentive for employment of workers, to reduce unemployment. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we support the draft law at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u214	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Changes in labour law are necessary in changing social conditions and economic trends. It should certainly be agreed that according to experience from practice – epilogues of judicial proceedings, lack of inspection powers, anomalies at agency work and excessive employment in substandard forms of employment – certain changes to the existing law are needed. In the DeSUS Group, we cannot agree with the claims made by some that the rigidity of legislation in this area is the main culprit for the problems facing our economy. The fact is that, in crisis situations, changes in such important areas as pension and labour legislation can lead to an additional crisis if the proposed measures are not supported by the consent of the social dialogue. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we expect the maximum convergence of positions and the adoption of solutions that will be acceptable to all without threats to referenda. The DeSUS Group shall adopt the proposed solutions, one more or the other less. This is because we are aware that the labour market is in difficulty, but that it is necessary to protect the worker as a weaker party in a relationship in the new regulation of working relationships. The latest version of the bill, which has been tabled in the National Assembly, has allowed the dualism of the employment contract to be abolished and we therefore agree more with the current version, which preserves both types of employment contracts. The proposed law provides for a fixed-term employment quota, and this form of employment is also limited by the obligation to state the reason for such employment. In the DeSUS Group, we want even stricter restrictions on fixed-term employment. It seems unacceptable to us that the current practice of employers is that they have an endless employment chain for a certain period of time while leaving the worker in uncertainty and fear of non-renewal of the contract. How young people should become independent and form a family at all, since it is among young people that this model of employment is the most common today. Employers want more flexibility in working relationships. The bill certainly brings them, as it eliminates fairly high protection of regular employment by reducing restrictions on forgiveness. There is also a change in the model of discharges and cancellation deadlines, which makes it easier to respond to trends in the business environment and the resulting labour demand. As positive news in our parliamentary group, we also welcome restrictions on agency work. The proposed law also regulates the issue of straw companies in order to prevent the abuse of workers. We also welcome several criminal sanctions and the extension of inspectors' powers, but we want more and better effective inspection. As far as the protection of older workers is concerned, the latter will be worse off than under the current regime, under which they are protected from the age of 55. Workers 55 years of age are the most vulnerable category of unemployed because no one wants to hire them. We therefore believe that they should be protected during the working relationship. The protection proposed under this law, five years before meeting the age-retirement conditions, is questionable and, according to our assessment, difficult to implement, since the employer may come, intentionally or unintentionally, to excuses and abuse, if you did not know that the worker had reached the conditions for such protection. In the DeSUS Group, further consideration of this law, we expect further modifications to the solutions, as negotiations are still under way at the level of the social partners. At this stage, however, we agree that the law goes into further procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u215	Thank you very much. New Slovenia delegation group, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u216	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! flexicurity is a red thread of the draft Labour Relations Act. This is another important law from the reform package, which is virtually inseparable from pension reform and the amendments to the Labour Market Regulation Act. In New Slovenia, we welcome the approximation of European labour market standards brought by this proposal, as we have committed ourselves to this in our programme. flexicurity does not only mean easier employment and at the same time easier forgiveness, although this is one of the central solutions to the proposal of the law, it also means the possibility of more flexible organisation of work within businesses, facilitating transitions between jobs or sharing with employers and between employers. It also means other measures that will make it easier for businesses to reorganise and thus adapt to market developments. In New Slovenia, we also favour all measures that will increase the safety of workers and prevent their exploitation, especially migrant workers, who are often subject to modern slavery. Since the proposal for a labour relationship law provides a good basis for modernising and debirocraticizing the labour market area, in New Slovenia we actively monitor the negotiations of the social partners and hope that the demanding material will soon be harmonised. Members of New Slovenia believe that the proposal for a labour relationship law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, mag. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on working relations – the position of Positive Slovenia is that we will not oppose the proposal of the law at first reading. Explanation. The legislation governing the labour market, labour relations, pension and disability insurance and tax policy must follow the market needs for labour and the competitive environment that the State must create. Today, labour market needs are completely different than they were 10 or 20 years ago. Development in various areas brings new requirements to meet social, social, industrial and other needs. These modern needs have a quality, time and ecological character. To meet these needs in a competitive environment, we must have such a legislative framework so that companies can compete in meeting the different needs of products such as services and products. In the triangle, the employer-employer country must be subject to maximum flexibility, flexibility and security. Flexibility and flexibility and security are highest in good companies and regulated system legislation, where the safety of the labour force is also in the case of rapid forgiveness. Market needs are more seasonal, innovative, low-series today, and therefore also require cyclical labour needs for project and investment work. Therefore, there is a need for rapid forgiveness and rapid employment in market requirements for reduced or increased product requirements. To follow competitiveness, we must have a system of flexibility, flexibility and security of the workforce. All together, in a triangular state, agency or fund for retirement, however, can also be an employment agency-employee-employee-employee with intergenerational solidarity, by transferring knowledge, skills, practical experience from older people to younger ones in pre-retirement periods, including reduced working hours, the motivation of the country with reduced contributions or taxes for workers and employers. If we invest more in research and development, we will create new product needs, we will be more competitive and we will create new employment needs or we will create new jobs. The Labour Relations Act must motivate and stimulate the company to adapt the labour force to the needs of the labour market without high costs and the employee must be responsible for meeting the objectives of the company. Young people are understaffed in employment. Students with vocational training would, for example, have three plus one education where they would have one year of practical experience and entry this year as a working age. After this school they could normally enter the vertical progress of education in vocational education. Students would, for example, carry out compulsory scratches, as determined by specific articles or laws, for one year, and be extended for another year by making it easier for the company where they work. That's how we'd get two. Firstly, the practical training of young people who would be quickly employed if they returned to employment agencies or institutions and achieved more competitive capacity and productivity in those jobs where young people would be trained. In this way, we would encourage existing professional staff to be more effective. By familiarising young people with the work process, businesses, in the rotation, replacement or employment of young people, young people would find employment for an indefinite period of time rather than today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u219	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor. Get ready. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u220	Thank you very much. The Labour Relations Act is also important in the light of unemployment. Social Democrats are particularly concerned about young people, and by assessing that each work counts, we want to give the work proper validity and reputation. Unfortunately, the Slovenian economy is not sufficiently competitive; productivity is still very modest in many cases. The economy does not exploit the knowledge of young people. Inventors in Slovenia, you know how difficult it is to implement their ideas, even through a patent office. The legal security of employees is of exceptional importance by nature for the Social Democrats, so we need a good law on working relationships, which will have to be further upgraded and properly processed. We have too little time to go into detail, but with many statements that have already been said in the presentation, I agree and I think we are on the right track. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hočevar, prepare Mr. Joseph Horvat instead of mags. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u222	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Speaking of labor law, we should have an alarm ring. Our reality is that employers don't want to hire anymore. Those who create jobs clearly tell us that the new Labour Relations Bill will not make this easier for them. Jobs create an economy, not unions. If we want more jobs, we also need to listen more to the economy in this dialogue. The Citizens' List supports and co-forms government reforms to bring them out of the crisis. In all the reforms, we have already reached great compromises in common, but we are concerned by all these compromises that perhaps some of the reforms will be too reckless and that it will only for a short time postpone our encounter with a harsh public financial situation. We must be aware that the international environment will not assess reform by content, and not just by adopting it. In all government reforms, we are most concerned about the novelties of the Labour Relations Act. In the Civil Gazette, we are aware that we no longer need less regulation of employment to raise employment. That it is important for a person to find a job quickly and not to remain in this job for the rest of his life. In September, the World Economic Forum published a competition scale. On this scale, we have taken 56th place from 144 countries. The worst place we have reached is the criterion for the effectiveness of employment and forgiveness procedures, 142nd place. I will support the proposal of the Labour Relations Act at first reading, as it nevertheless brings some important improvements to labour law. I will use the expression to simplify the procedures for the termination of employment contracts, particularly in a procedure that did not benefit employers and not workers, because it was too regulated and focused only on the procedure, not on the content. We further welcome the introduction of electronic communication between the worker and the employer, both in permits and in warnings. We also agree with lowering the remuneration for waiting for work. Nor do we oppose the protection of older workers, who are bound to five years before retirement. The proposal clearly protects workers' rights in so-called straw companies. However, we are not most excited about the allocation of quotas for fixed-term employment. The Slovenian economy is currently in no shape when we can choose what kind of jobs we want, but every job is welcome. Many employers are already struggling with the precarious situation on the market and we are doing nothing to help them with such restrictions. We reiterate that prescribing work-time allowances after content is the same as tax. Economic research for Slovenia and other developed countries has shown that there is no real basis for the productivity of older workers in relation to younger workers. It puts young people in an unequal position and artificially irritates the work of older workers. In the Civil Gazette, we advocate a compromise proposal to bind the allowance to the employer's time and to transform it into a so-called permanent allowance. In the Civil Gazette, we believe that the Labour Relations Act allows for too much restrictions on the labour market and in further coordination, we will strive to improve it and make it, in particular, to the extent that our economy is the only one that can provide jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u223	Minister Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u224	Your Honor! Let me explain a few things. First, it refers to what has been expressed several times — how we will create new jobs. For new employment is the most important job. If we have one, then it could be a job as well. If there is no job, there is nothing good for us, and there will be no employment. Thus, the Labour Relations Act is an addition to all the other efforts of this Government to revive the economy, to create new jobs and, consequently, to encourage employers to work for such a job. Respectfully, what is the most encouraging thing for employers to do in such a job? The fact that the employer knows that the labour legislation allows him to do so if the work is no longer or has less time to work, that it does not need to sink the whole company, so that it does not need excessive burdens for other parts of production, and that it can do so for business reasons relatively quickly, easily and relatively cheap. The employer encourages the possibility that if they have a job, they will be employed and if there is no work, if there are business reasons for them to cancel such a working relationship. This is, in my opinion, crucial to the employer's decision whether to work or not. It is less important whether different forms are available. If it has a single form that enables it, it will choose this option, and therefore we want to convince you and employers that the contract of employment for an indefinite period with significantly improved and procedurally simplified cancellation procedures for business reasons, if there is no work, is an appropriate response and an even more flexible form than the contract itself for a certain period of time. Why? I'll try to illustrate cases. The employer has a job and a job and he hires a worker for this job and hires him for an indefinite period of time, and this work is linked to a contractual relationship, on an order. The employer is constantly working — since this order is not forever, not indefinitely, it is time limited — to keep this business. In the event that he fails to do so after 13 months and a half of his working relationship, he must have a relatively short period of opportunity to dismiss him for business reasons, to grant him the retirement that he belongs to, and to notify him of it in advance with a notice of dismissal. If we do not impose any additional administrative obligations on the employer, each employer will know 30 days earlier that he will no longer have a specific worker. I think that a worker who works for, say, two years with an employer and then this employer cancels his contract for business reasons, only one half of his salary, his pension. Your Honor, that's exactly what we did with this law. With a 30-day notice period, the employer may cancel the working relationship for business reasons, on a relatively comparable basis with other countries, we do not give up anything here when it finds that there are business reasons for doing so, and there is no need to implement a whole set of additional procedures prescribed by legislation so far. I said earlier why I think this is even more flexible than a fixed-term contract. That's because there are chains in the time contract. Today he hired him for six months, then extended him for another six months and then probably extended him for another six months. Let's say the third time he's been extended by 6 months, which means he's got a working relationship, let's say, there's 12 to 18 months. Let's just say that this employer is out of work for 14 months, and that's possible, and the employee doesn't need 15 months anymore. The Treaty and the procedures proposed enable it to adapt more easily, more cost-effectively to its needs than the Treaty allows for a certain period of time. Because in the case of an indefinite contract, there is no alternative to an employee engaged until the end of the period, i.e. 18 months. We would like to warn you and ask that you, together with us or yourself check out these new procedures that have been so far – individual cancellations I am saying – the key points of non-competitiveness and stiffness of our labour law. All international competitiveness and labour market rigidities are based on individual employment and termination procedures. These are greatly facilitated and we want to report and convince all those who think that measures such as a fixed-term contract, such as various other forms, offer flexibility to be wrong. We are convinced that the employment contract is for an indefinite period of time, which allows for a simple and rapid response to the employer's job needs, the right solution and a step towards flexibility while ensuring the safety of employees. This seems very important to me. If we can bring this perception into the social dialogue and convince the employers to do so, then I believe that we will succeed you too. When we talk about supplements, the supplements are part of the pay policy. As a rule, they are left to a bipartite agreement between the social partners. The new labour legislation allows employers and employees to agree on any supplement at the bipartite level and to whatever extent they wish. We prescribe certain supplements whose height or technical details you have discussed can be agreed on a bipartite basis. Trade unions report that they are willing to discuss the supplement at work, of course, in relation to other wage policy issues. I would be very happy if, through some solutions and extensions through this legislation, we were encouraged by this bipartite social dialogue and agreement. This is the second message of the package of measures we are offering.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u225	Mr. Joseph Horvath has a word behind him. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! I think it would be very good if this lesson, although relatively late, in particular the last thing we heard from the minister, were listened to by employers, trade unions and a slightly higher number of Members and Members. I would like to start by saying that I am in favour of agreeing that this new labour law continues its parliamentary path. I'm going to turn on the green light and I'm sure, really, honestly, I'm sure it's going to create some new environment and create some new relationship between employers and employees. Like you in the field, I meet with individual citizens, mayors, companies, and in mid-September I met representatives of an extremely successful Slovenian construction company, which pays about 700 salaries each month. We know what the construction sector is like, so this company, both the management and all the employees, I am extremely sorry. Allow me to read some of their comments on the proposed Labour Relations Act, which, as it is said, dates back to 17 September this year, and are certainly irrelevant today, as some of these comments have come to fruition during the negotiations, in the sense that they are no longer available today. I will make these comments in terms of appeals to the unions. My debate is some logical continuation of the debate of colleague Katarina. The management of this construction company says: "We do not agree or propose..." – number 12 points. "First of all, we do not agree with the abolition of cases of admissibility of a fixed-term employment contract,..." – indicate in particular the increased scope of work, seasonal work and work, which, by its nature, lasts a limited period – "... because in our view, these are the most justified and necessary circumstances for the conclusion of a fixed-term employment contract. We do not agree with the amount or limit of 10 % of fixed-term employment from the number of indefinite-time employees in a society where the need for workers is greater in individual periods. Secondly, we do not agree with the payout of workers who are working with us for a certain period of time because of the additional cost of the employer. Thirdly, the level of experimental work under the proposal for a new employment contract should be extended from 5 months to 9 months so that the employer can better understand and assess his knowledge of the required work. Fourthly, opportunities for greater flexibility of workers should be added. Fifthly, we oppose the introduction of the retirement fund in the form presented, as it places an additional financial burden on the employer, the employer's contribution of 0.58%, as well as the administrative burden on the employer. Six, we suggest that the lunch break is not included in the working hours." It's a tough nut. "Seventhly, we propose to simplify the determination of working-time regimes, the way in which work is determined after the end of a period of 6 or 12 months, it is determined whether there has been a levelling or whether hours are paid as overtime. Eighth, the arrangement of the work-life allowance exclusively at work-time with the last employer." He suggested that this should be left to the collective industry. "Ninety, we agree with the consistent implementation of proportionality on annual leave, and we propose that the same approach be introduced in the annual holiday regression as well. For the tenth time, the change in location from which the worker comes to work should not automatically affect the increase in the cost of transport without the corresponding modification of the contract of employment. The 11th time, the payment of the cost of transport to and from work shall be borne by the employee according to the actual distance from the place of residence to the place of employment, if that distance is more than 2 km. This shall take into account the shortest possible route and the cheapest means of transport." Last comment, 12th: "The number of days of absence from work due to illness or injury outside work paid by the employer should be reduced to his/her own burden." I conclude, and once again I say that these comments were made on 17 September. Some have already been removed today, Mr. Minister. I think that some of them are also acceptable to trade unions, all in the sense of creating a better environment for new jobs. I don't think I'm up for the union hearing. I am in favour of listening to them and taking them into account, but, as I have said many times before, jobs will be opened by economists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u227	Mag. Leila Hercegovac, then Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u228	Dear President, Honourable Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The economic crisis has highlighted the shortcomings of labour legislation in the protection of workers' rights, the effective system for the enforcement of workers' rights and the inspection and prevention of abuse. The Working Relations Act was adopted in 2002 and amended in 2007. In 2010, the Republic of Slovenia repealed ILO Convention No. 89 on the prohibition of night work for women in industry and construction. I regret that this was done for the children. The current regulation of the ban on the night work of women in industry and construction binds them to a transitional period until the convention is repealed. How long will it be a transitional period, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u229	Mr. Lucky Meh, then Mr. Richard Branisel.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u230	Good-bye, ladies and gentlemen. It should probably be said that today we are adopting the most important laws in some way, that they may also be crisis laws – pension, labour market, labour relations – but it would be good, Mr Minister, if the Slovenian government announced the results to say that these are the goals that we will pursue, so much more employees, then the social product will be bigger. And then I'd be happy to support you. But that's not it. If I say very simply, the unemployment rate is, say, for this year 11,9, for 2013 13,1 and for 2014, 13.1 are forecast. That's what they say in Umar, where they predict it will happen. I wonder if this rate of unemployment is, by the measures envisaged here, or without measures? I would very much like to hear what the unemployment rate will be then, simply so that we know what our goal is. Labour legislation was perfectly fine 4, 5, 6, 7 years ago. At the time the unemployment rate was significantly lower, there were jobs, at the time there were jobs and companies were employed. At the time, the rate was significantly better. Today, the question is that we could take part-time work if these were temporary measures, if we say that for two years we are taking such and such measures that we will open up so many and so many jobs in these two years, and we do not do so. Now we're talking about this, and before that, we should probably do an analysis of the unemployed, and the structure, how structurally unemployed they really are because they're hard-working, and how many people who don't get a job have a suitable education. It also analyses the needs of companies, what companies need if they need anything. If now is a time of crisis, which we all agree on together, then crisis measures are also needed, which would have a very clear backdrop in the economy, because otherwise each company will tell its conclusions. I can also say what, say, would answer to employers, say, in the middle where I come from, and on this basis we should say that we can, but these measures should not apply for more than two years as temporary measures, and then we should say that from there we are adopting new legislation. Otherwise, we put it all on the workers' shoulders and do not create new jobs, we do not have any additional jobs. If we include the unemployed and those leaving Slovenia, then this picture is much worse, so it seems to me that we should talk in particular here about temporary measures and that we did not agree with the unions and employers that today's debate is forced, if I say so, because we don't even know what the laws will really be. So I think it would be a lot easier to talk about if we had a good needs analysis in the back, and even if we understood what employers want. If we have jobs, we have jobs or we don't have jobs. That's it, it's work or it's not work. Otherwise, we will only sharpen labour legislation, make poor employers worse, even less rights for workers, and certainly workers for the situation in which Slovenia, and also the global and European economy, are not to blame. Banks can be guilty, greedy managers can be guilty, especially those who have organized the work and do not go otherwise than to bear the blame evenly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u231	Minister Vizjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u232	Thank you very much. These forecasts by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development regarding the unemployment rate you have read are a spontaneous scenario. This is a scenario without any action taken. I am convinced that if we succeed in taking these measures, the unemployment rate will be lower because of this. How much lower it depends on how much they take and whether the remaining measures are taken, in view of all these referendum initiatives that we are proposing to revive the economy. These things are connected. Once again, labour law will not create any new job. It will, however, allow for more courage to be employed in open jobs. This is the objective of labour law and labour market reforms. The question was whether 4 years ago labour legislation was good. No, it wasn't, but we didn't feel that much about unemployment because the labour market was more balanced. In the labour market, we had more job offers and, given the demand for work, all those who wanted to work, despite the relative demands of labour law, were given a job. I recall, as Minister of Economic Affairs in 2007, also the first half of 2008, when we had reverse problems when we met that there were no workers for the needs of employers, irrespective of labour legislation. In doing so, I would like to stress once again the importance of economic recovery or the creation of new jobs in employment and the fight against unemployment. At the same time, effective labour legislation is very important. We didn't have one four years ago. Maybe we felt less alone, and then we were repeatedly warned about the competitiveness scales that have already been quoted today, you probably know them. We are on these competitiveness scales through the labour market and through labour law on the tail itself, especially when we are talking about concluding and cancelling individual labour relations. Another answer from the lady who asked about the convention when we were talking about the night work of women. This Convention is unnecessary for Slovenia and we have found this together with the social partners, because the night work of women is regulated by European Union directives. Moreover, this Convention also requires additional bureaucratic tasks that are unnecessary. It requires the role of employer to agree to night work, requires certain procedures, both at the office and at the inspectorate or at the ministry at the inspectorate, which are totally unnecessary and therefore we have simplified procedures, and we maintain, in accordance with European Union directives, all the requirements that employers must respect to be able to organise a European comparable way to carry out women's night work. The Convention represented only a bureaucratic burden, which we gave up in agreement with the social partners.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u233	Mr. Richard Branisel, then Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u234	Thank you, President. My debate will go in the direction of building Article 55 of the Law in the part that speaks of limiting the conclusion of contracts for a certain period of time. As is now envisaged, the restriction refers to the fact that more than 15% of all contracts may not be fixed-term contracts, whether they are in law or transferred to a collective agreement. A fixed-term job is an exceptional type of employment that the legislation knows and is only allowed in exceptional cases where temporary replacement of an absent worker is concerned, when there is a temporary increase in the amount of work and when it comes to some work that is project-organised and takes a temporary period of time. There are other reasons, but the point is that the employer has the opportunity to have the opportunity to respond to this form of employment, to remedy these risks in the course of business in such a way as to employ a certain part of the workers as it needs for a certain period of time. This institute is constantly under the supervision of a labour inspectorate. Any derogations from the legal standards regarding fixed-term employment are subject to strict labour sanctions. If legislation is not respected, such a contract is considered not for a certain period of time but for an indefinite period of time. And that's the worst penalty a employer can get. I'm talking about the limitations that are now in marriage. So far, there have been no such restrictions in the current labour law and it is right that there have been no restrictions. This solution, which now brings these limitations, is inappropriate for me personally and also for the Civil Gazette. It is an unacceptable administrative burden on the employer, absolutely without need. I feel that this administrative obstacle has come from the inspection services to make it easier to control contracts for a certain period of time. I must say, this is a completely wrong instrument, a completely wrong philosophy. Surveillance is still possible, and even after the existing solution there is no problem. Look what would have happened if that solution had been followed. In addition to everything else, the employer must keep an eye on these percentages. With this employee, an entrepreneur in the company, someone else will have to deal with it. At the work inspection, someone will have to work to control these percentages. I am talking about inadmissible administrative obstacles, which we have said should not be, and we are removing them at all possible levels, in all possible areas. And here we get them back, without any need or sense. I would like to, and I think that we will do everything possible to continue the process of adopting this legislation in order to remove this administrative obstacle from the bill, without prejudice to any rights protected in any way. Let's remove these administrative obstacles and not put them where it's not necessary at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u235	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I agree with you that a fixed-term contract is an exception and that the rule is an indefinite-term contract. That's all right and in theory, but in practice it's the other way around. In practice, contracts shall normally be concluded for a certain period of time and, with the exception of contracts for an indefinite period of time, the figures shall speak about this. True, it is beautifully written, in which cases contracts may be concluded for a certain period of time. At the same time, it is true that virtually all these cases are abused because they are undetectable. Tell me, Your Honor, is it possible that someone today in these times of crisis, when it is very turbulent about the employer's orders, will find out what is normal and what is an increased amount of work. I think that's practically impossible to figure out. Not only do I believe that, but those who supervise labour legislation also assess that. Therefore, the Institute of Contracts is being abused for a certain period of time and therefore contracts are to be chained for a certain period of time over all sound, reasonable logic. If we were to hold on as a drunkard to the fence of records and respect the limitations of marriage, there would be no problem. However, since we still have a lot of ingenuity in this society and country, it can be summed up by our former southern brothers, the situation is the same as it is. It causes some other deviations in society that are undesirable and go beyond the interests of employees and employers. This is the fact that young people are involved in a relatively unfair situation through various contracts, in particular fixed-term contracts, most of their work. As a result, they have difficulty planning their future, let alone a family, in some relatively unstable situation, without normal rights, which go to employees for an indefinite period of time. This is this so-called segmentation that we want to prevent. This goes beyond the interests of employers, which is also the interest of society. It is also the interest of the state and probably this coalition to reduce this segmentation. Ladies and gentlemen, we are available for ideas and possible measures to reduce this segmentation differently than we have proposed. We don't insist on that. I've already said that in the beginning. We don't insist on quotas. However, we believe that it is right and necessary to move forward and reduce the segmentation in the labour market or encourage employers to work indefinitely and not encourage employers to work for a certain period of time. By the way, these two contracts are in an uneven position, both for the employee and for the employer. In fact, if someone employs a worker through a fixed-term contract for two years, what they can do, the worker shall not be entitled to a retirement and not to a cancellation period. We therefore have unequal rights for a comparable working relationship. For this reason, I believe that there is another measure that would not encourage temporary employment and would encourage employment for an indefinite period, which is also one of the fundamental objectives of this legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u237	Mr. Tomaž Lisec, behind him mag. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u238	Nice greeting again in my name! When I was looking at this mole and preparing for the debate, I didn't really know where to start. That is why I borrowed a study from Umarje to begin with, where it is clearly noted that the labour market in Slovenia has adapted to the crisis mainly by reducing the number of employees. Despite the huge financial inflow of funds in the previous mandate, the figures have been specifically proven. In fact, they were going in the wrong direction. As Umar wrote: "As a result of smaller economic activity, unemployment increased in the Republic of Slovenia in the period 2008-2011, and structural disparities in the labour market in the period 2009-2011." I think we need to pursue trends with the objectives and purposes of the law in order to turn these negative results into a different or positive direction. Several predecessors have touched on the segmentation in the labour market, particularly the problem of temporary employment among young people, among those who enter the labour market for the first time. We all have an anomaly called student work, which especially has positive effects in these times of crisis. Otherwise, I believe that it has mainly negative effects on the labour market, even though I myself used this student work during my studies to make it easier for me to survive. We have other forms of work that differ from our ideals, from work for an indefinite period of time. We have a short-term job, a business contract, a copyright contract, and, worst of all, we also have a black job. Although student work is not the subject or content of this law, and therefore probably there is no point in discussing too much, we cannot go beyond that if we are to find a solution in the future to bring this student work or the work of young people closer to entering the labour market more easily. Why? A lot of students who are happy to use their student work – as well as employers like to use this work – then find them with a diploma in hand and with a waiting room at the employment office, because in what they used to do successfully through a student's guide, they are suddenly replaced by another student because it is cheaper and more flexible. As I said, student work is not the subject of this law, but I think that one day in the future it will have to give a little more attention to this issue as soon as possible. When I was preparing for the debate, I did not know what to focus more on, because this material, which is very extensive, raises many important questions – employment for a certain or indefinite time, an attempt to eradicate work on the black side, security on the one hand, and flexibility on the other hand, the importance of inspections, the protection of the elderly, the entry of young people into the labour market, the expulsion, etc. In my opinion, all of this is very important. As we know, the devil is always in the details. I hope that, both within Parliament and within coordination with the social partners of this matter, the debate will be resolved and that this is precisely the fact that the Government, together with trade unions and employers, is trying to reconcile as much as possible, giving particular importance. It saddens me that we have only just heard today from the opposition that they are willing to participate in the coordination of these laws, but for two months they were probably dealing with other matters and were more concerned with the content of why we were four times against the previous mandate. I repeat, it was not four times against the SDS, against the pensioners, students, unions and any other group that you overrun in the previous term, as you overturned the opposition's proposals. We offered you a full stack of paper, and you probably didn't even examine it, but you threw it away, and it's getting revenge on you or the whole country. Given the calls for reform, I call on the opposition to step forward together. As I said before in one debate, workers and employers are not left and right, they are all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and everything needs to be taken care of to the best of all. Tomorrow there will probably be a number of us attending the so-called Economic Summit, which is being prepared by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. I hope that the voice of this economy will reach us, the coalition, the government, trade unions or all those stakeholders who have a word in drafting legislation. Maybe something about job security. In fact, I was very sobered by this quote: "On the basis of the employment protection index developed by OECD experts to compare labour market regulation in national regulations and to classify countries according to the criterion of employment protection impact on employment level, it is unfortunately noted that Slovenia belongs to countries with the least flexible labour law." This is yet another call to listen to the economy. I'm not saying that you don't have to listen to the unions, I even think that you need to listen to the workers. Workers are those who work, trade unions sometimes play a strange or court role, sometimes exploiting their power in this country for purely wrong motives and content. So, when you coordinate, I hope that you will spend more than a minute with the unions that sometimes take politics to the economists. Why? Once we squeeze the economy behind our necks, we can stop dreaming about the safety of workers because it will not work anyway. I'm having a hard time digesting a relationship that's safe and flexible. They would trade security and employers' flexibility, if we put it together, throw it in a basket, I don't think anyone will be happy with this bill and we won't find the solution that we all probably want. I think that we all feel the same way that for this labour legislation that we are adopting today, in the first reading, we will not find all the problems and solve them overnight, but they are a good signal to both Slovenian workers and the Slovenian economy, that we are all aware of the solutions, even we, politicians, although sometimes it seems that we are far from conceptually apart, that we all agree with these solutions and support them. That is why I personally express my support for the bill before us today, at this time, until adoption, but I believe that we will join the coalition, the opposition, the government, the unions and the economy in order to make this law as far as possible in the final stages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u239	Mag. Stanko Stepišnik, then Mr Franz Jurša, if not Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u240	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to take one initiative as Minister, please. This is one entrepreneur's proposal. Talks about how to use, introduce into the legislation the Institute of Personal Service or personal assistance. Personal services would represent those and such services for which provision is not required of their own premises, special equipment or certain conditions relating to the protection of the environment, equipment or special professional education. If the Institute were not to act and employ employers through this institute, such as a student's work today, it would be right for a sub-law to charge them. This is mainly to help the elderly, the sick at home. According to some data, 150 000 people are doing this work in Slovenia. This is done voluntarily, against payment, and some through espionage. Performing multi-housing houses, cleaning rooms, gardening, maintenance works at residential and other facilities and similar, training in learning, services in the implementation of various sports, cultural and similar events – this is done today through student work – services in information equipment and maintenance of information equipment, the work of a tourist guide and the like, the work of trainers and similar works in public sports societies, especially in working with young people and so on. In the same way, all non-farmers could also register, have some land and join the fruit, vegetables and other vegetables network. Thus, the Institute of Personal Services would be the first step in incubating entrepreneurship. Today, the individual has to register espas, and half of them fail because the state immediately crams down on espa, with taxes, contributions, the cost of keeping business books and the like. The social system should be oriented so as not to reduce social transfers until the individual exceeds a certain amount. The tax office could arrange accounting for personal service providers with a simple computer program. Above all, it is important to open up the possibility of people working only to increase their social standards and, on the other hand, to increase revenues to state treasury and, in particular, pension and health. The Institute of Personal Services could also be expanded by students, students, including those who pause and finish education, but have not yet received a job, doing other work in this way, what they are doing today with student service travel, and thereby resolving all the student work and anomaly disputes it brings to the labour market. This would remove all the apparent entries that thousands of people and make the educational system imprecise because young people in this way are saving their social security because there is no other option. Thank you very much. I ask for this initiative if you bring it in. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u241	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u242	Your Honor! I'm happy to say that it already exists. It is called a slightly different, personal complementary work. This thing exists, it's very similar to what you described. I am also pleased to explain the circumstances and all the details of this institute, which already exists formally in our legal order of personal supplemental work, to a gentleman who is interested in this or who does not know this institution, and I believe that if you search the Internet or the existing legislation to find it, you will find it. However, if you would like, we will be happy to explain in writing all the details of the Institute of Personal Complementary Work. But it is the answer to what is slightly different called in this initiative of yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u243	Mr. Stephnik, what did you think, replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u244	No, just what was offered. Please, if you really put that in writing, like you said.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u245	Good. It's a late hour, but the rules of procedure still apply. Let's move on. Mr. Janko Weber, then Mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u246	Thank you. Mr Minister, I will continue where I left off earlier in the debate when I saw that you have no concept of the work of the Government, especially in relation to the maintenance of jobs. Umar predicts an increase in the number of unemployed in Slovenia. No measure that might be necessary to prevent any of the companies in your term of office from going bankrupt – you did not react, but you let the companies go bankrupt and the problem is solved for you. No specific concept. If I compare this law, which we are currently considering, on labour relations, and the previous labour market law, in the labour market law, it is clear that you are reducing the financial compensation for the period of unemployment, in particular for the first three months. You also shorten the period for receiving this refund. On the other hand, this law simplifies the procedure of forgiveness and even provides for 9 million euros in savings at the expense of the unemployed. How will the number of unemployed increase? There are no detailed calculations for the laws that we are considering, and that is the biggest problem. If you are already asking for proposals etc., see, the previous Government has had very concrete experience with the economic crisis and has managed this crisis in a way that kept the number of jobs, including those concluded for an indefinite period of time and in particular in a way that subsidised part of the working time in order to keep people working for an indefinite period of time and when the order came, the company had an immediate worker at its disposal. This was the first wave of crisis that we have managed in this way and would have been even more successful if a pension reform had been adopted. Today we are in the second wave of the crisis. We were all afraid that there would be a double w's in this economic crisis. We are therefore in the second wave of the crisis, but the government's reaction is virtually nothing. It would be appropriate to adopt appropriate tax legislation, but not to reduce capital taxes at the time when economic growth has been recorded and thus reduce the revenue to the budget. If we did not do so, we could today have measures to help businesses that have the opportunity to work indefinitely in a way that accidentally falls due to an economic crisis or other business circumstances in difficulty of being subsidised by the State for an indefinite period of time for those who are employed for an indefinite period of time. A very specific case that has been introduced and has brought about success and has also preserved many jobs. Why is it not considered why tax legislation is not properly adopted to allow this? It is not enough to say that we will continue to reduce capital. You have also reduced his obligation in this mandate, but there are no new jobs. Now that you have mentioned how many successful proposals you have put forward in the previous mandate, you have the opportunity to propose them all. However, the problem with your proposals was that you have reduced the burden, but you have not compensated them with other sources that would equalise this manka. That was the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u247	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u248	The Honorable President. These are really nice challenges for me to answer such questions, although you have some Members to go back to history, but what we want to do if we listen to this. You're talking about things without a concept again. I can say with full responsibility, Mr Weber, that your Government was totally without a concept at the time of the economic crisis. Moreover, you didn't even know how to respond, and you expected and hoped that the crisis would last six months, that you would pull back, that the storm would pass and everything would go further than before. That is why you have also taken measures that would only prevent the social hardship of those who have lost their jobs, but not that that would give jobs that would create conditions for businesses to breathe in times of crisis, to keep jobs with work, but not to pay for waiting for work, jobs. This was your concept that was totally wrong because you underestimated the crisis that you thought would take a very short time. You've spent a lot of budget money, entrusted this country to extremes, to the Maastricht borders. But you did the following. You created or increased unemployment among Slovenian citizens by 50,000. From 60,000 unemployed in 2007 and in early 2008, this number has increased to 110 000 in your mandate. You have managed to lose at least as many additional jobs if not more jobs for those who have worked through work permits in Slovenia and are not included in this first quota. You've lost over 100,000 jobs, and now you're telling me that you had a concept and that you've kept the number of employees. You have maintained the number of employees by doubling the number of unemployed and halving the number of those working through work permits. Thank you very much for such effective measures. That's not what we're gonna do. If you look at Death’s forecasts for this year regarding the rise in the number of unemployed, you can find that the numbers have not come true, that we have more angered unemployment, that the increase in the unemployment rate was only in October, due to the arrival of new young people who finished school. We have created quite a few jobs through effective measures of active employment policy. We have not defended non-productive jobs, but we have employed young and unemployed people to new jobs that have emerged in companies that were promising and that could be employed. Your Honor, we have a very good concept. The concept is not based on the promotion of wrongdoing, but on the fact that we employ the unemployed where we work through active employment policies.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u249	Replica, Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u250	Minister, you really are a master of deception. By the end of the term of office, your government had claimed that there was no crisis. Our government has faced the crisis, resolved it, proposed solutions, failed to reform it, and we have proven to preserve jobs. Jobs have been lost due to the economic crisis, and this to you [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u251	Good. They will continue the debate in the lobby. At this point, as agreed, it's 11 o'clock, I'm breaking this agenda. I'm also adjourning the meeting, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9:00. More notice. The Chairman of the Committee on Economics informed me that the Committee's meeting would begin in 10 minutes, 23 hours and 10 minutes, in the so-called quiet room. To the chairman of the committee, Mr. Han and the team, I wish a successful night's work, and to the rest of them good night.
