ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 10th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mrs Alenka Pavlič, mag. Melita Župevc and Mr. Jakob Presječnik. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome Minister Janez Šuštersič. I also welcome everyone else here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 10th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Tuesday 10 April 2012, with a reference to the meeting. Contains one item of the agenda. This is a proposal to initiate a procedure to amend Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. Let me remind you, this is a constitutional audit procedure that is two-phase. During the first stage of this procedure, the National Assembly shall decide on the initiation of the procedure and on the views on the draft constitutional law and in the second phase of the constitutional audit procedure on the proposal itself. I have not received any proposals for an extension of the agenda, so I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda for today's meeting be set, as you have received with reference. We'll decide on the agenda. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting on the agenda. 68 Members and Members present, 65 votes against 1. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 10th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. On the agenda, this is a proposal to initiate an amendment procedure 148. Member of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law. The draft act was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister Janez Šuštersič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u2	Well-known, distinguished Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to begin by telling again the reasons why the Government has decided, even in agreement with the representatives of other parliamentary groups, to propose the adoption of a constitutional article that sets out the principle of the balance of public finances and obliges those who form draft budgets and who accept these budgets to follow this principle of balance in this regard. The main reason is that the balance of public finances is important. I don't think there's any doubt about that, and there's practically no difference between us. Even when I participated in these discussions over the past days and weeks on the fiscal rule, there was no doubt that the balance of public finances is a value and a goal that we must achieve in Slovenia. We have therefore proposed a proposal for a constitutional article laying down the principle that the revenue and expenditure of a country covered by its budgets must be balanced and that they must be balanced in such a way that, if a deficit occurs in any year, this deficit must be covered by the surpluses of other years, or by surpluses, which would be ideally created in the past, or by surpluses to be created in the future. Since it is not realistic to expect the country to have a completely balanced budget every year, nor, for example, in times of emergency would this be justified or prudent, our proposal for a constitutional article also allows for exceptions. This exception is linked to the concept of special circumstances. We explain these special circumstances in two ways. There are some unforeseen events, such as natural or other accidents, where resources must be provided to remedy damage, help people, and so on. However, another special circumstance is the economic period in which we are in a real economic crisis, in which, for the first time, the revenues of the state budget are lower, and secondly, it is reasonable that the country, to some extent, with its deficit or its consumption, promotes economic growth. Which is different from practice so far, we propose that the implementation of this constitutional Article then determine precisely how much the country can exceed in times of poor economic conditions. This proposal for a constitutional article was submitted to the Constitutional Commission, which formed or appointed a section. This section presented its findings yesterday, and the Constitutional Commission also adopted them in the form of recommendations. We, as the Government, accept these recommendations, feel justified, and are willing to cooperate in making these recommendations fit into this constitutional article or in adapting the text of the constitutional article proposed in the next step of this procedure or in bringing these recommendations into line with it. From a substantive point of view, I would like to draw your attention in particular to one provision, which has also been made meaningfully in our view, namely that the Constitution proposes that public finances should be balanced, and that it also sets out the principle that they must be balanced in a way that ensures that the state does not increase its indebtedness. From the discussions we had in the last days of the publication of official data, such as the public financial deficit in the past year, you may have noticed that some things are not covered in the current budget when it comes to so-called capital investments and state revenue. Last year it was about recapitalising the New Ljubljana Bank and some companies. This all increases the deficit in the public financial sense and increases the country's indebtedness because it was financed by debt. Another example is the issue of some long-term views or a long-term aspect of public finances. We all know what population ageing can mean for public finances. We can have this year or some year, of course not this year, balanced public finances, but we already know that if we do not change the pension system, we will have a deficit in 5 or 10 years. And such a principle that debt should not increase in the long term obliges us to propose measures with which we are starting to resolve this problem today. Perhaps it is a little more concrete to say how this would work in practice, saying how we imagine that the provisions of the implementing law might also look, although today it is not the subject of debate or the subject of decision-making. We are proposing a system where the law determines that public finances or their deficits are moving in the opposite direction as economic conditions. So if the economic situation is bad, as I said before, this constitutional rule will allow us to have a certain deficit in public finances, limited to some factor, but still stimulating to the economy. The extraordinary deficits we've seen in recent years are not what would help the economy. Of course, virtually all countries go to some disadvantage at the time of the recession. On the other hand, which is equally important and would also be important in some past years, when we have had very good economic growth, but it is also important that this provision works in the opposite direction. That is, when we have a good economic situation, the government must create surpluses or the state must create surpluses in its finances and thereby create a reserve, either to pay back past debts or to act at the time of the next deterioration of the economic situation. This is the basic mechanism we anticipate. Of course, there will be an in-depth debate on this implementing law, and simulations will also be made for this debate, what exactly does this mean. The basic calculation showed that if the economic situation in the coming years is expected to be the same as in 2015, when this constitutional rule is to be definitively applied, a small deficit will still be possible because, at least after current projections, the economic situation will not be so much better. Of course, we all want and will also take measures to actually be better and to have a full balance or even surpluses at that time. Perhaps what the implementation of the constitutional article should look like. The adoption of a constitutional article will not mean that we will have balanced public finances this year. The deadline is set for 2015: for the first time, a budget should be drawn up to comply with this constitutional rule. In the meantime, we propose that the Government commit itself to proposing budgets in such a way that in 2015 this constitutional provision can be respected. It is said that we will not go in the wrong direction in the middle, but that we will go in the direction of respecting this constitutional provision to the point in 2015. This is a transitional period, which, given the economic situation and the current deficit in public finances, is also the only one that makes sense. At the end of two or three more words on why he is in a hurry to adopt this constitutional article, why we want the National Assembly to decide on this as quickly as possible, at the same time as or before all professional arguments. This was also done with the help of this expert group at this first stage. I think that it will also be in the next stages when we are preparing the implementing law, and this will be ensured. However, it is this year, according to our assessment, at least when Slovenia has to do its homework. It is, to take the first serious steps towards bringing our financial situation as a country back under control and into a secure framework, to begin putting it into a framework that the economy can manage and thus open up a space for economic development. This is one of the positive signals Slovenia can send this year to the international community. The international community is not just people who come in black clothes and pencils and a hard look to do hooks, or we have done everything we have promised. But it is also the people who come to Slovenia with a sincere intention to open up a company here, to invest in a company that already exists, that may have helped recapitalise some bank, because, unfortunately, we are no longer able to recapitalise this budget. And there are people who are sincere about investing in Slovenia who are here ready to see their opportunity and in this way also contribute to the start of the economy. This is the key thing that needs to happen in this and next year. All these people are now monitoring what is happening in Slovenia. They are monitoring all our debates, not only on this constitutional rule, including on the budget, with regard to other economic policies, and observing whether we will finally be able to make this effort in Slovenia to start moving in the right direction. The adoption of a constitutional article, although as a principle, however, a principle which would have a constitutional basis or be raised to the level of constitutional principles, and in doing so it would be the same in its meaning to other principles, such as social states, human rights, the rule of law and other constitutional principles, would mean that in Slovenia a large majority of policies, because otherwise it is not possible to adopt it, is true that the vast majority of those who have been elected have decided to hope for this principle of fiscal sustainability to be enshrined in the Constitution, in an act which is practically impossible to violate. This would be one of the very strong signals that we have started our homework in Slovenia and that we are also willing to do it in such a way as to open up room for further economic development or for a renewed start to economic growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The draft act was considered by the Constitutional Commission as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Constitutional Commission, I give the floor to the Mag. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At its 2nd meeting, on 10 April, the Constitutional Commission considered a proposal for the initiation of a procedure for amending Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by means of a draft constitutional law submitted by the Government on 16 March 2012 to the National Assembly. The Constitutional Commission was informed of the following opinions: the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the opinion of the Council of State, the views of the groups of Members, individual opinions and the opinion and supplementary opinion of the section set up by the Constitutional Commission for the examination of Article 148 of the Constitution. The content of the opinions and the whole debate is reflected in the report. Following the presentation of the opinions, a debate followed at the meeting of the Constitutional Commission on the draft constitutional law and on the proposed positions. The debate is capable of being divided into two parts. The first part supporting the proposed text of the draft constitutional law and the proposed position of the section. The amendment of the Constitution will allow Slovenia to emerge from the financial crisis, gain international reputation in financial business markets, have easier and cheaper access to international financial markets. Change brings balance to the budget and public finances. The purpose of amending the Constitution is not to limit the referendum decision. The adoption of a constitutional amendment requires, of course, the cooperation of both the opposition and the positions. However, the second part of the debate was a reminder of the undue urgency of amending the Constitution and the absence of a position to take note of the section's submission of the Fiscal Rule Act for the second phase of the constitutional audit procedure. It was also pointed out that there were no more extensive debates, professional debates, and there were no more debates in the European Union at the time of the adoption of the fiscal pact. Specific questions were also raised in the debate on clarifying certain concepts. At the end of the discussion, the section proposed to complement the views with a new e-point. On the basis of the debate and the proposed proposal for an additional position, the Constitutional Commission unanimously adopted a procedural decision, 19 Members or Members of Parliament being in favour, no one opposed. The procedural decision is: The Constitutional Commission proposes to the Government to submit to the Constitutional Commission, as a working material for the second phase of the constitutional audit procedure, the text of a law which, taking into account the adopted position on the draft constitutional law amending Article 148 of the Constitution, will specify the implementation of the proposed amendment to the Constitution. The Constitutional Commission also adopted the following decision: The National Assembly adopts the Government proposal of 16. 3. 2012 to initiate the procedure for amending Article 148 of the Constitution by drafting a constitutional law. The Constitutional Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following position adopted by the Constitutional Commission with the necessary two-thirds majority of all members present in the Constitutional Commission following the final examination of the draft constitutional law under Rule 178 of the Rules of Procedure. The position is: Article 148 of the Constitution should be amended in principle to apply the principle of balanced public finances, a so-called fiscal rule to limit the long-term indebtedness of the State. Article 148 of the Constitution should be amended or amended in the existing first paragraph so that it also provides that all revenue and expenditure to finance public spending must be covered in the country's budgets. Article 148 of the Constitution also provides that public finances must be balanced in a way that ensures that the State does not increase its debt or reduces its debt over a long period of time. Article 148 of the Constitution also provides that a law adopted by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority of all Members shall regulate the implementation of the constitutional principle set out in the previous position, including the possibility of derogating from this principle in exceptional circumstances. In preparing a proposal for a constitutional law amending Article 148 of the Constitution, all other important aspects which are relevant to the regulation at the level of the Constitution and the law in relation to the fiscal rule or its implementation should also be examined. The implementing part of the Constitutional Law should set a time frame for the adoption of the law referred to in point No. of this Decision and for the preparation of the first budget, which will take full account of the provisions of Article 148 of the Constitution as amended, while at the same time determining how future budgets should be drawn up in the period preceding the full implementation of Article 148 of the Constitution as amended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u5	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Group of Positive Slovenia, Mr Zoran Jankovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u6	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members! Today, this is my last performance on this stage, and I'm your colleague for about an hour, so let me present this position today and support it a little bit. Even if you are not all pleased with my position, I would ask you to understand that we want only good for this country, and this is our proposal at the invitation of Prime Minister Janez Janša yesterday to participate in Slovenia's development strategy. Today we will vote, as we have said, we will not oppose the opening of a constitutional change procedure, what the expert group proposes, out of respect for the very conclusions that this is necessary, and respect for the expert group that we have set up to propose a professional position for us. However, for us in Positive Slovenia, this does not mean that we have already adopted a constitutional change and a golden fiscal rule in the constitution, because already the former Prime Minister, Mr Borut Pahor, has come with this proposal and the golden fiscal rule does not mean the exit of Slovenia from the financial crisis, it is only a signal to the international markets that we are serious about our strategy, our development, our savings and that they can monitor and verify us, because it is no longer left to the government to change the budget or the balance on the basis of the common majority, but it must receive a two-thirds majority. At that time it was set that data should be drawn up on what this means for Slovenia, what this means compared to other countries. Then a meeting took place on March 5th, when Prime Minister Janez Janša was already in office. I have said that in principle I support the entry of the Golden Fiscal Rule into the Constitution, provided that I obtain a balance sheet and see whether it is reasonable and, in particular, a budget balance plan up to and including 2015. I got a balance last night. Reading lasted until three o'clock in the morning, it's quite a few pages. And I have to say that this balance is not what I think is right for the development of our country. I am not against saving, but I am against destroying a social solidarity state, destroying those categories that help us. Today we are talking about the public sector as something that is not needed, tomorrow we will be discussing that we are not needed. I wonder what happens when we need good care in kindergarten, good education in schools, when we need medical care or firefighters, if anything burns, or cops, if we have problems. Will we then say, "You know, we voted for 13% of the salary reduction, but you still have to do what needs to be done." On the basis of experience, when they tell me in the economy, "we are in the economy, we are in the market," my answer will be the same, "and we are checking ourselves, we are on the market every four years, unless there are early elections". And each of us has this opportunity to show what has contributed to the development of this country. I will always defend myself personally and I am against the referendums, I am also personally against the sentence, because the sentence means additional damage to the Republic of Slovenia, but we have a chance to stop both of us if we just look at what the other option is. On 7 January, when we are on this page with the presidents of the parties, Mr Virant is here in the back and with the leaders of the negotiating groups, the Minister is also here, signing one of the other coalition treaties, we wrote in that we need to reduce the deficit by 800 million. Yes, the number is the same, but in a different way. We have written that there is a need to work on income, and we have even written large state infrastructure projects that need to be launched immediately. However, if we look at the current balance, state consumption is declining by 9%. If we look at what is written in the NRP by 2015, as far as I can read, this balance for 2012 shows that it is very good, given what awaits us in 2015. And then we also wrote that it is necessary to reduce expenditure, to extend the intervention law by the end of the year, which is obviously now the unions and others are offering, and I think this is a great thing. We also wrote that "The Pahor Reforms" should be implemented since 5 June last year, which are good, and that health reform should be added. And as a key point, we have written that we will reduce the mass of public sector wages by 2% per year. And now I'm wondering if the people who wrote this can't figure out whether we were really talking about whether we knew anything about whether or not we were joking about breaking all this down now. I don't know how you're going to explain to those of you, colleagues and colleagues from the two neighbouring parties sitting together, a complete change of those principles. Is it possible that our message can be so that we do not support such a rebalancing and ask the trade unions to wait for the changes in the balance and then go to the strike? The bet is bad for the whole country. We also wrote that the last option can be to raise VAT if necessary. And if we now see that we have a regulation – 3% of the state deficit by the end of 2013, I wonder why we have to do it at the end of 2012 in such a painful way. And the one who explains that it is a prerequisite for the development of the country, for the development of the economy, to first arrange this saving, this cutting, this destruction that is envisaged, then I say that he has not done much in the economy. Once we destroy something, when we set something up, when we demotivate people, then ask yourself how we can move on. My call today is – yes, we will support the initiation of the procedure for two reasons. One reason is because I believe in the golden fiscal rule myself, under the condition of the four-year development programme of Slovenia and the harmonised balance. I therefore accept the call in good faith when the Prime Minister said yesterday that we could propose additional measures. We're ready if he calls us, but yesterday, as I say, I got this proposal. And secondly, out of respect for the positions of the expert group that has corrected the Government's proposal, so it is acceptable to us as well. However, if it is written that this means automatic confirmation of the golden fiscal rule in the constitution, my answer is no. If I receive this proposed four-year budget plan, which Minister Šuštersič has promised, and if it is developed, I will gladly confirm it. However, in 2015, it does not matter whether it is at 35 billion gross social product or at 33 billion, or whether it is at 40. And I wish I were 40 billion or more. And once again, such a rebalancing that now foresees not saving, but, I say, dispersing and destroying what we have in this country will not receive support from us. And if we fail to agree, I would like you to read once again the treaty we signed, where we have foreseen all the measures, and vote in your conscience. And if we have so much conscience and knowledge that we also let the unions know that they're giving us a month before they go to strike before they do the damage to wait for the National Assembly to accept, hopefully, a corrected balance, then we've done a lot. I thank you. I haven't spoken many times. It was an interesting experience to be in Parliament, although it took only good three months, but I learned a lot here, including a receipt. Again, thank you very much. I wish you a good job, and I want you to decide on your own conscience and work for the good of the countries. At times like this, when we talk about Slovenia's development strategy, about the budget to forget about customer division, but we work for the benefit of people. Thank you so much and good luck to everyone. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u7	Thank you. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, Mr Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. The situation in Slovenia is not good. The deficit exceeded 6% of GDP last year. Public debt has risen to almost 50% of GDP. The money is not very much available, for several years we have been talking about a credit spasm that is the most stifling economy. The demand and demand for our bonds to finance too much public spending is almost gone, or the price is very high for them. The country's credit rating is getting worse, so the borrowed money is becoming more expensive and the amount we are paying for interest is rising rapidly. The commitments we have been sending to Brussels in recent years have not been fulfilled by this year, and as a result, we are still at risk of restricting the rights to draw on European funds. In other areas too, the image is not significantly different. For several years in a row, we have spent significantly more money than we have collected. We all know that this situation can't last much longer. It's best to get him done as soon as possible. In our 20-year history, we have not often had balanced public finances. If I'm not mistaken, it only happened twice. Once in one of Drnovsko's governments and in 2007 in the last full year of Janša's government. All these years we've been dealing with deficits. On several occasions, however, a sustained deficit has also been demonstrated by the use of various non-standard accounting tricks and various other moves. The attempts so far to limit public consumption have not been successful. In the previous mandate, in 2010 and 2011, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group has twice proposed a law on public financial responsibility, which sought to achieve budgetary constraints. At that time, it was still a good time for more debates, as there were also substantial more reserves under the Stability Pact. At that time, external circumstances, as well as external patterns, would have helped us if we had just followed them to join the European train and diverted our fast-growing public consumption. This was completely incompatible with the movement of gross social product, which in that period fell most in Slovenian history. If they had adopted that law at that time, they would have been among the first or even the first within the framework of the European Monetary Union to do so. Unfortunately, the current policy failed to find a consensus, perhaps she thought that the biggest opposition party was not the one or was not the one who had the right to limit the coalition. There may also have been no need, since it was relatively possible at the time to be in debt, because we then quoted well in European political and financial eyes and because the attention of the European Union and the European Monetary Union was focused on other countries, Ireland, Iceland, Portugal, Italy, Greece and elsewhere. Then, if we decided to do so, we could come up with a marriage solution. The cuts needed to implement or implement such a solution as we have proposed, or similar solutions that could be proposed by someone else, would be much less painful for the unions, for the recipients of many transfers from the state budget, and even longer would be available for them to relate. There's a new experiment ahead of us. The government proposes that, following the example of many countries, this rule be enshrined in the highest act of the State — the Constitution. Unlike the previous term of office, however, the time available to us is much more limited. This time, we must take this rule and the measures to alert the European Union and the financial markets in time, and there is not much time within Slovenian policy or in dialogue with the social partners to carry out these negotiations. This time, the government has submitted a proposal for a constitutional amendment, so-called regula d'ora, a golden rule, and the opposition is the one that, contrary to the previous mandate, will decide whether to support these restrictions and sound budgetary rules, the budgetary functioning of this and any subsequent government. The opposition is also in a much easier situation than a coalition that must immediately propose unpopular measures, many of them already, and take on most of the public opinion, political and other consequences. The key objective of this rule is to establish long-term macroeconomic stability, to balance public finances in the long term, to create stocks in the years of over-average achievements that are used in the worst years or in the years of crisis, to mitigate the sharpness of waves in the crisis, and to restrain their appetite at the time of boom, or at the time that we like to say fat cows, to create a surplus when the country goes well, that something can be done to prepare some form of financial stock that can be used when conditions become tighter and the state can intervene and draw these reserves to cover the greatest problems in various areas. In this procedure, the consideration of the government proposal should also be commended to the expert group which had relatively little time available to deal with the government proposal and also to prepare views for the initiation of the procedure for amending Article 148 of the Constitution. Since time was short, it is likely that not all aspects of this government proposal have been worked out, and perhaps this is what a member or a parliamentary group is doing with scepticism. Perhaps that is why some concerns arise about the dynamics of adopting this rule. Some would drag, debate, perhaps overreact, others, including the Slovenian Democratic Party, and we believe that this constitutional restriction must be adopted as soon as possible. Although we would like more free hands as the largest coalition party in policy implementation, and although the adoption of this rule will bring the greatest problems to this coalition, we are committed to adopting this constitutional change in the best interests of the country as soon as possible. The introduction of this rule into the constitution should favour the opposition's logic, as it is the beginning of the coalition's mandate, in which, as I have already said, the government and its coalition will bear the main burden of implementing this constitutional solution and also the consequences, some are already forecasting in the coming weeks. We are aware that any solution in addition to good ones also has a possible side effect. Probably this one, too. However, if we are to stop the sinking of a building that is called a state, we must cut to the ground, with some effect on the facade. However, if we are to save the house, the foundation must be fixed immediately. The consequences on the facade can also be resolved later. This is also true in the case of this fiscal rule. And here we are in a similar situation. There will certainly be some side effects, but they will be minor compared to the basic objective, by regulating the financial situation. We must also be aware that there are reserves in every, even the best system or society. And every good business company is trying to find these reserves, find them to get a competitive advantage. And the fiscal rule is one of the good ways to find these reserves in the functioning of the country. I hope that if we recognize this, we will confirm this fiscal rule, adopt it, and thus enable the country to benefit from its competitive advantages. In the parliamentary group, we will adopt the amendment of Article 148 of the Constitution, and we will support it also because we want to proceed rapidly to remedy the consequences of past delays. However, I hope that within a few months of the adoption of this rule, the balance sheet and other accompanying measures will also have a financial market response that will improve the creditworthiness of the country and its institutions, and that a few ten million euros of the expected effects of improving creditworthiness will also retain some more rights in the family or social sphere. As we say, we will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u9	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! In our Group of Members, we believe that today we are facing the most important decision in this mandate. The National Assembly may only decide once whether to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution into a fiscal rule. If this Decision is not adopted, the National Assembly will no longer define it in this mandate. We are therefore ahead of an extremely important decision and only the adoption of this decision later in the debate on the positions of the section created by the Constitutional Commission and, of course, on the voting on these positions, allowing for the drafting of a constitutional law, which is then also the basis for amending the law itself and later the law for the implementation of the fiscal rule in practice. In doing so, we would like to draw attention to the fact that was particularly raised yesterday on the Constitutional Commission by the members of the expert group, who felt that there was still a need for further reflection before such an important and fatal decision is taken. It has also been pointed out that a change to the Constitution is possible if a longer debate is developed, in particular a professional debate, and also within the framework of the Stability Pact, which speaks of the fact that, following ratification in the National Assembly, such a rule can be applied by the end of 2013 and is applied in the preparation of the 2014 budgets, which suggests that this Treaty on the Stability Pact has also been written with this content, bearing in mind that a clear consideration is needed before the final decision is taken, in what way a fiscal rule in Slovenia can be adopted. In doing so, we would like to point out that we have already decided on the so-called fiscal rule in this mandate. This rule was enshrined in the Public Finance Act submitted by the previous Government, recognizing the need to approach reducing consumption and promoting economic growth and the early balance of public finances in Slovenia. Sadly, this marriage was flatly rejected in the National Assembly in this reference, and we can also say without any broad explanation as to why this happened. And because of this, it is also from the experience we have through the good solutions that have been proposed in the last three years, that the situation in Slovenia should be regulated in this area, that all of this has changed at the time that these solutions have fallen to the referendums, and that all of this has happened at least in our hope that this has been so due to the under-thinking of those political parties that back then supported these referendums and, hopefully, even the under-thinking of trade unions or social partners who participated in negotiations with the government on whether these measures are necessary or not. The time dimension of deciding and understanding a decision is sometimes fatal. Today's decision on whether or not to initiate a constitutional change procedure in the National Assembly is also fateful in our view, and we believe that, however, in the course of the debate that follows, it is necessary to take a decision and postpone the decision as to whether the constitutional change in today's meeting begins or perhaps after an agreement at one of the following dates. Because of the experience and awareness of the fate of this decision, I did not vote at yesterday's decision to convene today's extraordinary meeting to convene today, because we really believe that this reflection is essential to understand the need for this decision as well as the possibility of explaining whether the constitution is the only possible way to reach these urgent and fatal decisions for the further development of Slovenia. Our conduct in the parliamentary group will follow a reflection on whether it would still be appropriate to take some more time before we decide to initiate a constitutional change procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u11	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Civil Code, he shall have the word mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. A nice greeting to all on behalf of the National Gazette! During the period of Slovenia alone, we have amended the Constitution as the highest legal act five times, in the last year 2006. So was the time of independence, the honor of growth and the time when we were involved in international integration. Today, however, we are in a time that requires a policy of decision that will break the practice of transferring the burden of debt to our children. Today, with the support of the amendments to Article 148 of the Constitution, we are starting the first step towards a goal on the path of balanced public finances to be achieved in 2015. In the Civil Gazette, we believe that public finances are balanced in the national interest. Slovenia is unfortunately among those countries that have not experienced the economic and financial crisis with sound public finances. And where are we today? Slovenia accounts for 6% of deficits. At the end of 2011, the public debt amounted to 47% of GDP. We will pay 700 million euros for interest this year. However, as a country under the Stability Pact, we have committed ourselves to falling below 3% of GDP in 2013. This is due to the fact that we need a barrier to limiting public consumption, and this brake will, inter alia, place the golden fiscal rule in our constitution. Otherwise, within the framework of the European institutions, we will be exposed as one of the few countries that has not implemented appropriate measures in this area. If we want to be our own master, one of the more important measures is the change in the constitution that we are opening to today. In the Civil Gazette, we support the initiation of a procedure to amend Article 148 of the Constitution because we believe that it brings a stable environment to our citizens and thus gives them the opportunity to develop sustainablely and to give a positive signal to the environment. This will lower our debt costs, and this is also the way to recovery. Members of the National Gazette will today vote in favour of launching a constitutional change procedure, and we believe that the expert group designed for this purpose will draw up a final proposal for a constitutional amendment in a manner that will adequately draw up a way of implementing the fiscal rule in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u13	Thank you. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u14	Hello, everyone! Mr. President! The DeSUS Group will support the proposal for a decision to initiate a procedure to amend Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the belief that it is still worth a serious consideration, whether the reasons and concerns of some are justified, particularly in the opposition, that the proposal is not accepted and that it does not obtain the necessary two-thirds majority in the National Assembly. In the DeSUS Group, we would like to point out that the debate on whether, I emphasise, the need for a principled introduction of a balance of public finances, so-called fiscal rule with a view to limiting the long-term indebtedness of our country, has been taking place at the professional level for some time now, with delays virtually since our well-being is a general economic and social crisis. Unfortunately, the consequences of this crisis have not yet been resolved, the Slovenian public is not disputed because we feel them every day by all citizens and citizens. We've been talking about eliminating these consequences for years. Many, some more, others less effective, measures have been taken to address the impact of this crisis. Since the impact of the efforts so far is not sufficient, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that the introduction of a fiscal rule is the right way to tackle budgetary deficits and public debt. The proposal was also supported by a special expert committee of legal and economic experts established by the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly. I will not repeat their arguments for support here, as they are fully and in detail presented in the opinion on the proposal to initiate a constitutional amendment procedure presented by the rapporteur of the section at the Constitutional Commission on 10 April. Let me get this straight. According to the DeSUS Group, the decision to place the fiscal rule in the Constitution is the right decision. That is why we support and appeal to all those who may still have doubts about supporting this decision, to seriously consider whether our country wants to emerge from the crisis as soon as possible, to leave behind everything that has been bad in recent years, and to determine the appropriate scope and structure of public spending. If yes, then there is no serious reason why the proposal to amend Article 148 of the Constitution by entering a fiscal rule would not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u15	Thank you. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, Mr Michael Prevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we strongly hope that today we will take this first step towards changing the Constitution in the interest of a long-term balance of public finances and thus ensuring the financial stability of our country. Although someone might have thought otherwise, it is not a matter of simple matter, which has proved to be in the process of changing the constitution. The fact is that we all agree with the content in principle and the problems arise in implementation or in how to write this down as a constitutional provision that will actually have the effect that we all want. Therefore, today, when it is essentially just a confirmation of the procedure for amending the Constitution and we will only adopt the implementing law below, we do not expect complications in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, as there will be plenty of opportunities to discuss the content itself. But today, because of the topic in the Slovenian People's Party, we would still try to draw the issue in a more lazier tone, so that every citizen can easily understand why it is essential for Slovenia, on the basis of historical circumstances, to have the so-called gold or fiscal rule entered into the Constitution. In order to fully understand the concept that we are introducing today, it is necessary to go a little deeper into the economic history of our young country. When Slovenia suffered a kind of economic shock immediately after its independence due to the loss of the traditional markets of the Yugoslav common country, we had to carry out a thorough reorganisation of the companies in question and at the same time repair the banking system. Despite this relatively high financial cost, Slovenia was able to balance public finances in 1993 to the extent that the deficits were not reflected in the budget. Thus until 1997, our state apparatus spent about as much money as our own, then still weak, economy. As early as 1997, the state balance sheet began to show a slight deficit, and in some normal contexts we showed it until 2007. Although economic growth was relatively stable and perhaps there was no reason why the budget revenues and expenditure were not completely equal, the truth is that this deficit was not problematic. As it is said, the Slovenian economy has shown strong growth rates, and public debt recovery has not been problematic. Let me be clear, we are talking here exclusively about economic statistics. What has happened in the area of structural changes in the economy or the course of transition, restructuring and the like is a completely different story that is not even so bright. But according to the bare data, we had public finances completely under control. In 2007 and 2008, we also boarded a global economic expansion train, which we also took advantage of in Slovenia. Although there was no deficit in the budget, today we are all aware that at that time it was an excellent opportunity to create a concrete surplus in times of crisis, that is to say today, comes in handy. Such times followed very quickly. A serious economic and financial crisis followed the collapse of the markets at the end of 2008. We should probably have acted back then or in the Slovenian People's Party we are convinced that we should have given serious thought to measures in the area of the expenditure side of the budget or the specific rationalisation of certain items that are not essential to the resolution of the crisis. We should also take a number of austerity measures that are on the table today, because our fall in gross domestic product was one of the largest in Europe, and it was clear that this also meant a temporary reduction in the country's standard. I will not go into controversy and judgment about what has been going on for the last three years, but it is known that we have doubled our public debt. Although we have managed to keep the standard of living temporarily, we have also managed to keep the price of reducing economic competitiveness, even more problematic economic structures and, most importantly, the price of a much more uncertain future. Another problem that leads to the necessity of adopting a fiscal rule is public debt and a limited possibility of additional debt. Nor did Slovenia have any effect on the world's global financial markets. The global economic crisis, which is primarily of debt nature and does not fall within the typical framework of economic cycles, has led to widespread mistrust. The inability to pay off some countries' debts has further deepened this mistrust in global financial markets. How is this reflected in practice? Simple. The price of borrowed money is increasing, and the cost of repayment of our debt has increased. In the current situation, it would be much harder to repay the debt from 2008 when it amounted to 23% of our gross product. Today, when this number matches twice that many, these costs are even higher. There is also an additional problem: any new debt is debt under unfavourable conditions. If I make it concrete, it may be that Slovenia will pay only a billion euros for interest or more than a tenth of the total budget in a year or two. And what happens when the state no longer fulfils its financial obligations or no one wants to grant it an additional loan: then it loses its fiscal independence. For that much-needed money needed for the normal functioning of the country, you change the option of making your own or your own decision, either for a crisis lender such as the European Commission, either for the International Monetary Fund or for another institution. The lender sets clear conditions, including how much to reduce public sector wages, how much to reduce social transfers, how much to reduce pensions and how much more to add. Unfortunately, this is not the intimidation of the government coalition, it is a scenario that is not just happening in Greece, which is an extreme case of almost bankruptcy. This pressure and such demands from abroad have already been felt by many countries in the world after they needed fresh financial resources. Slovenia is not yet in this situation. Of course, we have cases of countries that have been responsible for their finances. Thus, Estonia today has only slightly over 6% of its public debt. Thus, their policy today has all the levers to reach into the domestic economy with additional indebtedness and financial injections, projects, state investment, and the economic cycle, exactly what we would like in our country. But, as it is said, Estonia is in a completely different position than Slovenia is today. In the last 20 years, Estonia has been creating surpluses that it can benefit today. Despite the fact that our public debt is not among the higher in Europe, everything is too risky for the future of our country to continue to increase it. And here comes the constitutional fiscal rule of the balanced budget. The writing of the fiscal rule into the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia solves the situation from the past, which I have just talked about and with which we now have experience. It obliges us to keep thinking at a time of high economic growth, to anticipate future expenditure and to create surpluses and to make amends, that is to say, to reduce public debt. Slovenia is simply so entangled in global markets, it has such an export-oriented economy that we are also dependent on the economic developments of other economies. It is our duty to adapt to this, as crises will also follow in the future and we must be adequately prepared for them then. With this fiscal rule, we also want to create a sense of responsibility for public finances every time. Not today, but 10 years from now, whoever leads this country will have to realize that the financial situation of this country is not a toy and that this is not a question of a single mandate. In this way, we also limit the practice of carrying burdens to future generations. Although it sounds bureaucratic, our children today have no way of deciding, through the democratic process, what they are actually doing with each debt. In the Slovenian People's Party, we want to take responsibility today, and we are convinced that this is the right solution. Of course, it should also be properly enshrined in the Constitution, but there is no doubt about the principle content. Everything else should be done by economic and constitutional experts. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are prepared for such and different adjustments to the final text of the implementing law, as long as the content follows that objective, which is the long-term stability and balance of the public finances of the Republic of Slovenia. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will therefore vote in favour of these constitutional changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u17	Thank you. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, he shall have the word mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u18	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! I don't intend to deal with what someone in the past suggested and didn't accept. I am more interested in what we will do and do at a given time and in a specific situation. The golden fiscal rule is the concept of balanced public finances, the concept of spending as much as we collect, and nothing else. But how do we achieve these balanced public finances, and that's not what the golden fiscal rule is about. The possibilities for budgetary balance are, of course, different. This is a matter of concrete economic policies. Some of you are more involved in income, others more in expenditure. It's not a golden rule, it's an economic policy matter. If I'm even more plastic, I'd say the golden rule in terms of traffic is that we agreed to drive 50 kilometers an hour across the village. But we don't talk about it, and we don't prescribe whether we're going to ride a bike, a motorcycle, a car or a truck. I believe you have many concerns about this so-called golden fiscal rule. You have pointed out and said three things in particular: that this is an institution to prevent referendums, that these things are already written in legislation, and that urgency is problematic. As far as the ban on referendums is concerned. I think that yesterday, on the Constitutional Commission and also several times, constitutional lawyers have made it very clear that the Golden Rule cannot and cannot be interpreted as an institution to prevent a referendum. It just doesn't work. I think at least one argument on this side is off. The next thing, some of you are saying, say yesterday, was pointed out by colleague Kociper on the Constitutional Commission, that things are already limited in existing legislation. If they are already limited in existing legislation, then I see no fear and no reason not to put these things in the constitution yet. Some colleagues, particularly colleagues from SD, pointed out that a problem is the introduction of a golden rule. He's in a hurry because this rush has concrete public finances. This clear signal that we could give means that we do not rent the loan after five or seven percent interest rates, but after three or four, which can ultimately mean that we save between 50 and 100 million euros, which is not small amounts. Which, on the other hand, means that we will have to squeeze so much less in other things, or we will have to tighten the belt so much less. And another message we would give to the Slovenian public when we write this golden rule into the constitution is that Slovenian policy is capable of agreeing and harmonising when it really goes. That seems very important to me. If our policy was capable of this in 1990 and 1991, I see no reason why we would not be able to do this in 2012. And that's the responsibility of all of us. I do not think it is necessary to repeat in particular that the beginning of New Slovenia and also the amendment of Article 148 of the Slovenian Constitution will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u19	Thank you. On behalf of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, Mr Göncz László.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President, also for the Hungarian way of saying names. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! At the time of the first concrete discussion on the balance of public finances at the level of the presidents of political parties, we expressed our Group's readiness to engage constructively in a constitutional solution to this issue. In view of the common commitments undertaken within the European Union also by the Republic of Slovenia, it is clear to us that limiting public spending by the so-called golden fiscal rule is a challenge to the time to be followed. Since the first step in this is in the context of the way in which we decided to amend Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the guidelines of the Section of the Constitutional Commission, we believe that the Government's proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the said Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is appropriate, we will therefore support the proposal. Undoubtedly, there are many questions about the introduction of the Golden Fiscal Rule, but it is also reasonable to conclude that the rational self-restraint of society has unfortunately not yet come to life or that we are generally spending more than we are creating without legal restrictions. On the basis of the discussions we have so far, it is clear that we are all aware of the great responsibility we are taking with the amendment of Article 148 of the Constitution, and therefore, in our Group of Members, we believe that the adoption and preparation, harmonisation and adoption of the implementing law will be a particularly important task. Let us hope that, with the help of the expert group mentioned above, we will find the correct form of implementation of the Golden Fiscal Rule into legal matter, but above all we want the law to determine, in substance, the sensitive areas of the use of public money as well as the remaining issues, including the exceptions that make it conditional on the formation of the revenue side of the State budget and other content in this regard. There could be a lot to talk about the overall issue of proposed constitutional change, but I think that today is our most important task to make the first step with as much support as possible, to which we are also providing our contribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u21	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The first to speak was Mag. Borut Ambrožič, but Mrs Maša Kociper will discuss it instead and Mr Borut Pahor will discuss it. Please, Mrs. Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Chairman. Unfortunately, some of us will have to leave the meeting of the National Assembly due to emergency obligations in the city congregation, so a few changes in order. However, I would like to start by saying that everyone in Slovenia is probably already aware of the criticality of the state debt situation and the importance of balanced public finances and a balanced budget. Of course, we are also aware of this in Positive Slovenia. We discussed this long before the current debate on the fiscal pact and the agreement at the Villa Podružnik became a reality. Balanced public finances are important, a balanced budget is important, but we would like to stress that the introduction of fiscal rules into the Constitution does not in any way mean a magic wand that will solve all our problems. Talking about the introduction of a fiscal rule into the Constitution of Slovenia as a result of the financial crisis in order to raise the country's reputation in the international public, to consolidate state finances and to prevent the country from sinking, is therefore excessive. And even the excessive theatricality and historicity of this moment is not appropriate, because we are only talking about the start of a constitutional change process. In view of everything, and given that the fiscal pact is proposed by the European Union, in Positive Slovenia, we have been inclined to start a constitutional change process and to have an in-depth debate within this process on the real consequences of introducing a fiscal rule into the Constitution. In Slovenia much has been debated in the past about constitutional changes, particularly in connection with the amendment of the referendum regime, the Constitutional Court and the like, but never about this very difficult constitutional matter. There are few countries in the European Union that have already introduced this fiscal rule into the Constitution, so it is premature to talk about the consequences of such an arrangement, or we do not have enough information about it. All we want in Positive Slovenia is that by amending the Constitution of the country's highest legal act, we do not rush, because whatever words or letters are in writing, there are significant consequences in such a high legal act for the rights and duties of citizens and have a significant impact on the enforcement of laws from the Constitution forward. In doing so, we would point out once again that the fiscal rule has already been introduced in some way into our legislation and that it could be respected by now. But it is those who have so far ignored this rule of law in some way, who are now the most committed to entering the constitution. Okay. If this helps us all to stick together more to this principle of public finances balance, if it helps decision makers and politicians to really start respecting the law now, we are also in Positive Slovenia. However, this is really only about the symbolic value of this message and the important signal that from now on Slovenian policy will respect and comply with the legislation already in writing. Nevertheless, the entry of this Golden Rule should be examined in a constitutional way. Most importantly, it also has consequences for article 50 of the Constitution Act, which deals with the right to social protection. It is therefore necessary to state whether the entry of the Golden Rule will affect certain rights, whether the weighting of these two values in the Constitution will have priority or not. Therefore, in Positive Slovenia, we are also constantly asking for specific assessments and forecasts of what will be the direct financial effects and what will be the direct consequences of the entry. The proposed budget rebalancing shows us that despite the gold rule, the rebalancing in 2015 is even more negative than it was in 2012. If what we are going to achieve with the Golden Rule is the question of if we are going the right way, and this needs to be examined in particular in the process of amending the Constitution. We keep asking each other why this rush is happening over and over again. Why the expert commission had so little time to discuss why the meeting of the National Assembly had to be called for today, that is, an extraordinary meeting one day after the meeting of the Constitutional Commission. The fiscal pact does not oblige us to do so, we have all stressed this many times. So the reason for this is still not clear to us. If it is true that we want to disable the referendums on the balance of the budget or on the legislation relating to reforms, then, of course, we cannot support this in Positive Slovenia. As we have already said, it is incorrect that parties who are not seeking to amend referendum legislation in the constitutional procedure. They want this to take place, on the other hand, and I have my own doubts that such a fiscal situation could really prevent the referendum, but in the end the Constitutional Court will decide. Even if the rush of entering the Golden Rule is the reason that any union proposal or any amendment of the opposition can be said, "Sorry, it won't work, the Golden Rule will be impossible for you from now on." This probably isn't the right way. We note that in Positive Slovenia we welcome the in-depth professional debate on what the introduction of the Golden Rule means, we welcome the views of the section that has already pointed out that the government proposal has been inappropriate in some aspects and we want all together to take the time to take up after a debate on such an important decision as a change in the Constitution, we can make a politically correct and politically responsible decision whether this change and the way in which we have dealt with it is appropriate or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr. Borut Pahor has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Exceptionally, as a member of the National Assembly, I would like to turn to that part of the public who trusts my judgment as a rule. My opinion at this point is that the start of a constitutional change procedure needs to start, that it needs to be started now, because the complexity of the constitutional change itself dictates to this high house and to the professional group that helps us, much work must be done to prepare a draft constitutional law and everything that is involved in the final decision to change the constitution. I would like to say that it is my view that it is important for the vital interests of this country and our people that this fiscal rule be enshrined in the Constitution. And I would like to say that, at certain times, some decisions are more important than their only real effects. This decision has that weight. This decision today and in the coming weeks, perhaps months, will decide whether, first in this team here in the National Assembly, confidence between us will be strengthened and we will try to find solutions to the serious problems that we are witnessing to them, or whether this trust will be lost and we will start accusing each other of not finding a solution. This is now for the perspective of deciding this high-level home, where a two-thirds majority is needed – not just the usual, decisive importance in this mandate. Another time. Even for the public as a whole, not only politically, it is extremely important whether we will signal that we are capable of going beyond doubts that are not of a professional nature or directly related to the very question that we are witnessing, that is, the content of the change in the Constitution, and that we are tempted by political doubts, prejudices, old resentments and all that usually leads to a lack of confidence in a decision that we may suspect may be good and useful for the country, but we believe that it brings a certain advantage to our political competitors in the short term and to us our loss. Such thinking may come at a time when we can afford certain luxuryes, this time of such luxury does not allow. And I say, whether now or in the coming weeks or months or maybe not for much longer. Somehow Slovenia ran out of time when we had the luxury of taking responsibility from one to the other. When we have a balance before us, you have Members and Members of the ruling majority in full responsibility to accept it. When it comes to amending the Constitution, responsibility falls on us. And I'm willing to accept it for the reasons I've told her all these days. Finally, let me say that the journalists and my colleagues asked me why I didn't call after the appointment of the new government. Because I said I was waiting for a moment that would matter. And this moment is now important, decisive. Today it is necessary to vote in favour, take time, and it will take a lot of time to write a revised, professionally verifiable, inserted text of the constitutional amendment. And then you have to accept that. It's so important this moment. I cannot say how personally, as a politician who has been in this house for 20 years, I am experiencing the importance of this moment. Not because of theatricality, but because we have a chance to push political energy towards finding the solutions of this country, or because we have a chance to take responsibility and criticism from one side to the other. Of this, our people will have nothing. They won't have anything! This is our responsibility today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Braniselj has the floor to prepare Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u26	Dear Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! One of the concerns about the opening of a constitutional change procedure in a particular case is the fear of rushing this procedure and of taking more time to do so, more reflection. I believe it is our duty to respond to the moment of time and to react when necessary. We need to respond quickly, so it must not only be found that we are not running ahead of schedule, we are even late. Overindebtedness takes what is most precious to the state, that is sovereignty and independence. Under the burden of overindebtedness, the sovereign state becomes vulnerable, dependent on foreign aid, which is never free. By entering the European Union, we have already lost a good part of our statehood and sovereignty to mention, above all, monetary policy, part of foreign policy and part of defence policy. Therefore, let us not allow ourselves to lose our fiscal policy yet, because we have almost nothing left of an independent and independent state. However, we may wonder how such a worrying debt could have occurred, given the clear provision of Article 149 of the Constitution, which states that State debt, including guarantees, is only permitted under law. This is also called the Constitutional Prohibition, or the defence right of the State. The above provision of the Constitution is a kind of unique in the world, but we need to understand where it came from in our constitution. Just because of our Yugoslav experience, the then over-indebted countries. And apparently this experience didn't help us make a mistake again. And now it's time to put her away. With the above-mentioned constitutional provision, there is a presumption that, at the time of each adoption of a new national debt, the State will think of its creditworthiness and trust, which the State is expected to maintain for a long period of time, contrary to the various partners at home and abroad. In this Chamber, in the near past, the legislative body has previously given clear, uncritical consent to the debt. We can fix a mistake today. The state of indebtedness of our country points to the past casual policy of the National Assembly, and therefore we now deserve to be constrained by the Constitution, not just by law, in front of ourselves. It is clear, however, that even if these guards, which we will put into the constitution, do not work, then we lose our sovereignty and leave ourselves in the hands of the European Commission. Of course, the above scenario is only hypothetical. I'm sure over-indebted in our country will never be a problem again. Not the problem of the state, not the problem of local communities, nor the problem of the economy and not the problem of the population. The crisis reminded us of some truths that we have apparently forgotten: spending, as much as you create, saving for difficult times, avoiding swallowing and gambling. I'll support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jursha. Get ready, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u28	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. A nice greeting is also valid for the Minister and, of course, for colleagues and colleagues! There's probably no one in this room who doesn't appreciate that the situation we're in is basically not good. He thinks it is the right time to introduce such a article of the Constitution as proposed, and I think it is the right one. I fully agree with Mr Borut Pahor's debate. A sober reflection of the well-known Slovenian policy on such decisions can give a lot of us the idea that this is the right thing to do. Our current situation, as it is, depends, of course, on our willingness and policy, whether we will make certain changes for the benefit of our people. People don't live the way they should. The crisis is everywhere, we are all well aware of it, but our key question as the congregation in which we are is how to ensure normal life especially for those who are at the brink of social danger. To keep abreast of the subject, some have already discussed some other topics and not a golden fiscal rule — the state of the budget’s balance in their opening presentations. But let's just let it go. We'll discuss these matters. You know, my father, who I valued so much, said to me many times in his life, "Son, cover yourself with the blanket you have." And I think it is good to respect his recommendation at this time, and I also recommend this to our country, our government, which is in a difficult situation leading the country or also coordinating politics. The stabilisation of public finances is simple and simple for every citizen – if there is no payment, he has not paid, if there is a desire for payment, is credit. We probably all understand that well, it's simple and simple. This is best understood by the simple people who follow us or listen to us. With Article 148 of the Constitution, we will also sort things out in some way, so I will personally support the proposal to start a constitutional change, as will the entire party's parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Mr Jani Möderndorfer should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u30	I agree with those who say that this golden rule will not save Slovenia, but it will nevertheless make it very clear that we intend to do otherwise, and that is the most important thing at this time. In some ways, I cannot help but feel that some are primarily looking for reasons why they would reject this Golden Rule or not write it down in the Constitution. However, the referendums are being highlighted, although I point out once again, we heard many times yesterday that they should listen to the magnetograms, because the golden rule does not prevent referendums; I hope everyone hears it clearly. That's another thing. Some want to have specific calculations. Specific calculations are difficult or impossible to give in the Golden Rule because the Golden Rule is a concept. And this concept speaks of the need for the budget to be balanced. And it's impossible to make a concrete calculation if you don't know what the revenue will be, because the revenue also depends on the expenditure; I think that's perfectly clear. Of course, it is possible to do a variety of simulations that the minister has promised to get on the bench, but these simulations will be made on the basis of some assumptions. Something came to my mind when Dr Jerovšek said very clearly yesterday: "When we were doing this country and when we adopted the basic constitutional charters, we did not have all the calculations. We were not able to predict everything until the euro or the event exactly what will happen in the future, and yet we decided for the independent state and carried it out." Well, that's when it took courage. Perhaps now is another occasion for Mr Jakič, who will surely remember this, I think he was a member of the ZSMS. When the war for Slovenia began in June 1991, for which there are historical sources, Mr Školč wanted to make a public statement that would divide Slovenian politics into two genders during the war. Thank God, there was Mr Gantar and Mr Šetinc at the time, who prevented this. And Slovenian politics has remained united throughout the war for Slovenia. And that was the key to reaching a country of our own. I don't want to be dramatic, as some people say, but I think this is such a moment that it's not worth looking for reasons why we should throw away this golden rule, but rather to look for reasons how we can improve this golden rule, and I believe that we will all come out of it as winners and not as losers.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer instead of Gasper Gasper Music. Let's get the mags ready. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u32	Dear President, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! I will discuss in this direction, for which I have been, I must say, extremely surprised, that in just two days we have experienced the essence of things that actually turn from moment to moment to moment even sometimes on the head. Yesterday I listened at the House of the Subjector, how this is an important moment and how we are going to do this action, I don't know what we're going to do. Then later on on the Constitutional Commission, it was a little different. Today, I am hearing that this is not really the sincere act that we really want to do. I'll go in one order. Of course, what my predecessor was saying is that when we were doing the constitution or doing it, it was a historic moment. What we are doing today is not a historic moment, but it may be a fateful moment, for any change in the constitution can be fatal if you do not make it with serious consideration. And so I warn all those who are in such a hurry, let us hurry, why I speak for myself, because I am sitting in the same car as all of us, colleagues and colleagues, to make a serious thought about what we are actually doing. Today I listened to the leader of the SD Group of Members, who said that by the end of the meeting they would consider how they would decide to initiate the procedure. Yesterday and today, I'm listening to the president of the same party who speaks a little differently. Personally, I don't really care what the President says and what Members and Members say, because I am aware that all 90 of us sitting here in this room can think and bear responsibility when we make our own decisions. However, that means that this rapid change of constitution does not have the honesty we spoke of yesterday on the Constitutional Commission, that all concerns must be cleared up. And those concerns, I can see they're still here today. I am confident that the government, which wants and wants to rule this country and wants this change of constitution, has no problem in this mandate as long as the government is in charge. But really none. The government will take care of itself. So someone's gonna have to stop her. Is the Constitution really the one that will stop her from being in debt and not going through? When we talk about trust, we need to take some measures to make Europe believe us. Let me say, if we put this in the Public Finance Act and if we were to predict those purely concrete measures and reforms, it would be a very good and concrete signal to Europe that we are serious. At the same time, we can think slowly about changing the Constitution and we are in no hurry because it will only take effect in 2015, which I am listening to all the time. By then, we can have a serious thought, a conversation, a profession, we will all sit together, even a public debate will be and everyone will be able to discuss what is actually to be done or not. And as long as we have this government, I believe we won't be in debt. So, what's the big deal? We, the opposition, cannot decide this, for financial policy is in the hands of the one who rules. Therefore, I propose that because I fear that the intentions are not purely sincere, that the chairman or whoever will lead after the conclusion of the debate will suspend the session before deciding to give further thought to how we will all vote together. At the same time, I strongly urge everyone to talk about an important event, not only to say it, but to apply it in effect. Right now, I'm not worried about the government or the coalition MPs. You've already made up your mind, I'm worried about those who keep saying today that something would, will, is honest, is not honest, in short, one thought. As a matter of procedure, I ask you, at the end of the debate, to put this to a vote in order to end the meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The one who will lead the session when the time is right will decide. Now I give the word "magic." To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In fact, I would like to begin my debate by actually deciding today, or we will decide, if, of course, there is a will to do so, on the initiation of a procedure to amend Article 148 of the Constitution. I'd like to point out the start of a procedure. The opening of the procedure will answer a number of questions, which we probably do not have the final answers to today and which we also have different opinions on. I believe that this is nothing wrong, but it is extremely important that we begin, that we take a decision to write down in Article 148 of the Constitution a fiscal rule that will balance the financial revenues of the public sector and, on the other hand, the expenditure of the public sector. Why is that really important? For the first time, it is important that we give both a short-term and a long-term signal that we want to have settled public finances on a realistic basis, on what we actually create and not on debt, and not on the fact that we may be in a bad debt with a matter in the past or without actually bringing added value to our debt. I also agree here with Mrs Kociprovo, who says that the introduction of the fiscal rule alone will not regulate public finances. No, we won't. Not with the record itself. However, this will certainly represent an obligation for any government to achieve a goal at some point in time, in real time, and these are balanced public finances. And, of course, this goal is not that maybe our generation would live better at this point. This objective is intended to ensure that future generations are those who actually pay less interest and have more money for development. Today, in 2012 we are expected to pay EUR 700 million for the interest on the debt and this debt amounts to about 48% of the gross social product today. Of course it's a big deal. That's a lot, and this is probably too much given the gross social product we're creating today. On the one hand, we have an assignment, on the other hand, we have a deficit. A deficit of 6.4% of gross social product or around €2 billion per year means that we spend about 20% more than we create. If we look at the family budget, we all know that's not how it works. It doesn't go on too long. For debts, guarantees must be given. The guarantee is a common asset, and if you don't repay the debt, then you lose the property. But in the case of countries, given that we are members of the European Monetary Union, of course we may also lose some of our sovereignty or at least someone may influence our sovereignty. Therefore, in the short term, today's positive decision to initiate the constitutional change process will certainly create an opinion, not only in Slovenia, but also in Europe and the world, that we really want to regulate public finances, as the whole of the European Union wants to do. After all, today we have also considered a harmonisation treaty on stability. I must say here that I will be correct that two of the 27 countries have not accepted this treaty. But anyway, the vast majority have stood up for it. Because of what was said yesterday in the section to ensure long-term sound public finances, that is, those not based on excessive indebtedness also ensure stability and increase the well-being of people. Time has passed when we were able to create by borrowing some fictitious gross social product, some fictitious development, something fictitious, which was not really tangible. We have fallen to real ground and therefore we begin by supporting the proposal for a procedure to amend Article 148 of the Constitution, a new era of public finances based on real foundations. I will, because I am also a realist in some way and because I believe in what we actually create and what we have, support the start of a constitutional change process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor to prepare Mr Roman Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u36	Let me begin by saying that in the life of each and every one of us comes to times when it is particularly difficult for him. And I should start by saying that today is especially difficult for me. The adoption of a fiscal rule into the Constitution is not an isolated story. It is part of a whole that creates Slovenian political reality and also creates a question of trust in Slovenian politics and in Slovenian public and among Slovenian people. In a situation where we are faced with a very radical picture of what needs to be done in a given situation in Slovenia, and we expect young people, pensioners, unemployed, teachers and police to pay for it, it is not an atmosphere of deep trust between us. Not particularly because we have come into a given situation for a number of reasons because political prestige has brought us into this situation. Why? Because part of Slovenian policy has consciously decided years ago that political prestige will be the first orientation for decision-making, and because we have not done what needs to be done in the right time, we are today in the situation we are in. And today we are making an account for our political shortsightedness to people, so that we will definitively squander the public sector, reduce the quality of its services and open the field for the two only remaining ways of facing difficult times, namely the privatisation of public services and the mass privatisation of state property. In such a situation, how can I accept, in a wave of goodwill, the solutions offered by this government? It's hard. I can't. On the other hand, I am aware that Slovenia is not an isolated island, that it is part of an international economic environment, that it is part of the European Union, which lacks a common fiscal policy when it has established a common monetary space with the introduction of the euro. I am aware that the differences between European countries are great, and I am aware that we need public financial discipline. But some countries need this discipline more than others. Slovenia is, as far as this is concerned, among the good students. It is true, however, that our public debt is growing rapidly due to structural causes, because we have an unadjusted demographic situation that makes it more difficult for us to go into debt. Today, we are not just facing formal aspects, whether fiscal rule is constitutional or not, this part is less important to me. We are wondering whether we will lead this country's path of recovery in this Slovenia by accelerating development by very well-known historical recipes or not, and this has been attempted by the Pahor government in a way that has increased record investment in economic restructuring, radically increased investment in the social cohesion of people, so that they have not felt the crisis; that it has created a new development pattern and has also addressed the structural causes of our public financial instability, particularly the pension system, the grey economy and some other things. You are right, today is not about who is to blame for the situation we are in, but about how together we will be able to come out of this situation, and it would be time, because today it is a debate on two economic theories to talk about and take time. From yesterday to today, you have convened an extraordinary session of this Parliament to decide on such far-reaching and fateful matters as a fiscal rule. I am aware that we need public financial discipline in Europe and therefore I am not but a policy against, nor a warm rule for this fiscal rule. Let us consider and enforce such a fiscal rule that will allow us to settle our public finances for a long time, and in bad times we are starting to grow with public investment in our public infrastructure, in the deficit areas of our public sector, such as higher education, health, social protection and health. These are smart ways to deal with the crisis. A lot of what has been said is how perhaps someone sees an implementing law that will implement a fiscal rule — perhaps I find myself in many ways. I say that I regret not to read this in the Constitutional Commission's report today, and I would also like to be politically wise because it is the oneness of this process that we take a week more. In this climate of political mistrust, at a time when such a demanding social dialogue is taking place, and at a time when probably more than ever before in 20 years there are two very different ideas about what the future development of Slovenia should be like, what the image of the country we have formed is right to take time, because it is not a question of political prestige, but of political wisdom. I want the result of this process to be such that this fiscal rule will be within the rest of the constitutional goods and values that we have secured through the Constitution, Slovenia continues to be the country in which I can believe.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Jakič has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u38	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Let me begin and make it a point for me to be glad or sad in some way that seven-year-old colleague Tonin was spoken in the 1990s. Scared him with the ZSMS. I hope you have been told that Demos then opposed the referendum on the independence of this country or. He wanted to reduce the percentage to 25% because he did not trust his citizens and citizens to decide on a separate Slovenia. I wanted to use this point because I was lucky to be here in the 1990s when the constitution changed, and here I agree with my colleague Janie Möderndorfer: it was truly historic! Despite the fact that the whole political encounter was under pressure from a historical point of view, we did accept it with a mild temper, and Dr. Butcher did so. I must say, I'm very glad he did it that way. Nor is it true that we did not have a starting point; for all or for most of the constitutional laws we knew what they would be like when the constitution was adopted. Today I listened to statements such as: "This moment is important and decisive," came from President Pahor. "History moment, new era," I have heard now. Tell me what the amendment to Article 148 is to the moment of history!? Would you tell me that if this constitutional article were not amended, would anything change for the ruling coalition so that it could not come and apply by its majority, to propose changes that would actually lead to the balance of this budget? Nor is it true that the amendment to Article 148 is without prejudice to the scope of the right to referendum. Yesterday, Dr Jerovšek said explicitly in his speech to the Constitutional Commission: "The constitutional basis, the so-called amendment of Article 148, is the constitutional basis for the assessment of constitutionality and in some ways leads the Constitutional Court to prohibit referendums and referendum initiatives." See, today we have rushed and we are also the first to give the green light to the Committee on Foreign Policy to ratify the Stability Pact or Fiscal Pact Act, which the European Union requires all countries, except England and the Czech Republic, which have not acceded to this pact to do so by 1. 1. 2013 Let's just hurry! Let's go. Of course, the hurryer loses his dignity. I'm curious, and I'm asking, why does a ruling coalition really need this security guard? For yourself? Are you insecure about your actions? If this were our government, unfortunately it is not because what happened would not have been necessary to change the Constitution, we would have proposed concrete measures which would definitely not break the social state and reduce the social rights of citizens and citizens. Like yesterday at the Constitutional Commission, you won't get my vote "yes" today. Because I don't want to and I don't want to be an alibi for this government to reduce the social rights of citizens and citizens. The amendment to Article 148 actually infringes the provisions of Article 50 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia on the right to social security. And because constitutional experts also did not have time – they wrote in their report, if I may quote, "an in-depth opinion could not be drawn up because it is a matter which has never been dealt with in the Constitutional Commission and in the constitutional profession". Someone was talking about "let's not get prejudiced, let's trust each other a little." I must say that my prejudice towards this ruling coalition is great and my trust is nothing. That is why I do not trust you – that today, with the historical words of how this budget needs to be balanced, you will indeed change this society globally; that you will change everything that this society has been since Tonin was 7 years old and we have done this country, and have managed to build social rights on the basis of the protection of human rights, which are now being taken in a perfidious way and cut with some argument that this must be so as to be prescribed by the European Union and so on. The President of our party today said how we imagined this stabilisation of public finances, how we wished not to interfere with social rights, but with other measures to achieve what we all want; that public finances should be balanced. I'm gonna repeat what I said yesterday. You actually gave the opposition an active role, but not a substantive role, but a role for the statisticians. I'll back that up! I must say, I'm very disappointed in you, so there's no trust when Pahor says let's trust each other! Yesterday, even before we sat at the table to listen to the professional boundaries of the experts of the Constitutional Commission and decide whether or not to begin a constitutional change procedure at all, the coalition has already convened this extraordinary meeting today with its signatures. Shall I trust you to do this well? Unless, of course, it is the idea that State affairs may be decided by the SDS Executive Committee or by a meeting at the Villa Podružnik, not by the National Assembly, where parliamentary democracy is and where decisions are taken. As I said, we play the role of statisticians, I also said that we are yours, which you will show to the people and Brussels at meetings, and we boast that we are the smartest and most papal than the pope, because we are the first and we are doing everything to please and worship Brussels, but of course you will tell people when the legislation changes, that political support has been uniform from the beginning and that is why we will take free kindergarten for the second and third children, so you will get less for maternity leave, so there will be no subsidies for student food and therefore the pensioners will not get their allowance. I don't want to be involved in this game of demolishing the social state! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word was wanted by Minister Dr. Janez Šuštersič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. I just want to make two things clear, one thing about calculations and the other about whether it's a fiscal rule about something that came into the world yesterday, and it might take us a few years to get to know it and to think about it in peace. About ten years ago, I was Director of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development. At the time we attended meetings in Brussels, we participated actively in them, and economic literature — at the time I taught students about it — was full of how to balance public finances with the change in fiscal institutions. Moreover, in this literature there are a number of examples of countries that have done just that 20 years ago and even more years ago: New Zealand, Sweden, later this has been explained to us, and besides what is in the law on public finances, their good practice has not yet come to us much. In short, for a long time, these matters have been known as the different possibilities of fiscal rules, from numerical rules to those we now propose, so to speak, countercyclical, depending on the economic cycle. That's how someone who's dealt with it knows for sure. Therefore, it was also possible that the expert committee had given its opinion so quickly, since the expert commission had not met it for the first time when it was appointed by the Constitutional Commission; if so, it would probably not have been appointed in such a composition. Such a fiscal rule is not nuclear physics, and I don't think it requires that we all go back to school so that we can decide on it. The other thing I wanted to say is about calculations and simulations. What I have promised and by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development has also been presented at the meetings of the expert commission, and will also be presented in the explanations of the draft implementing law, which we will be required to prepare and present in detail if these recommendations of the Constitutional Commission or yesterday's conclusions are to be confirmed. However, it is necessary to distinguish between something that simulates the functioning of the fiscal rule and what has been required here today as a condition that this fiscal rule can be discussed; because what was required today was the scenarios of public finances for the next four years, which, of course, has no connection with the fiscal rule. Let me explain. I've already explained, but it wasn't understood, I'll try again. The fiscal rule – even in my introduction – has been clarified – refers to only one dimension of public finances, namely their deficits or surpluses and indebtedness. This dimension is linked to one key variable, which is economic activity; if this is bad, we have a deficit, if it is good, we have a surplus, we have a stable level of indebtedness in the long term, if necessary, and additional measures. In short, the only thing the fiscal rule lays down is a deficit under certain economic growth assumptions. These calculations have been made, I mentioned them in the introduction and will also be transmitted and presented in an appropriate manner. With regard to whether such a deficit as the fiscal rule determines or limits – we can also have a smaller one, of course, but in what way we achieve it. There's nothing to say about this fiscal rule. Whether we are doing this as the Government now proposes with a rebalancing, it is said, mainly on the expenditure side, or whether we are doing so as another government might suggest, especially by raising taxes, is a matter of what the government wants to propose and what the National Assembly, which is making a sovereign decision on this matter, no matter what the constitutional rule is. So the constitutional rule only determines the deficit. It is possible to make simulations of what this target deficit would be in years from now, for example, until 2015 with official forecasts of economic growth. It may also be possible to make a simulation of what a higher economic growth would mean for a percentage or for a percentage lower; however, it is not possible to carry out simulations of what would be the revenue or expenditure of public finances, let alone what kind of measures would be needed on the expenditure side or on the revenue side. That's not the fiscal rule. This leaves the decision of the person responsible under the Constitution to the Assembly, usually on a proposal from the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. Let's get the mags ready. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u42	Obviously, in this mandate, we will hear several times more about how everyone in this country is responsible for all government decisions by the National Assembly. In doing so, we forget that there are people in the National Assembly who point out that some government action is wrong and we do not accept it. Dear Minister, you said that the fiscal rule in Europe is not new, that you went to seminars about the golden fiscal rule ten years ago – absolutely. I also say that what is happening in Slovenia today with the budget rebalancing is, in fact, only part of the broader European concept related to the adoption of the Lisbon Strategy, which aims to strengthen the economic competitiveness of the old continent. In response to the dilemma of how social, Europe has just invented a new concept of modernising the social state, and we do not know what a modern social state means. Why did I start with this dilemma, or why did I expose this thesis? Because I would like to continue to focus on the opinion of the expert who participated in the Constitutional Commission or as an expert in constitutional changes and who also expressed his concern. I hope that everyone, Members and Members of Parliament, has read it. Some issues, such as the relationship between the provisions on active fiscal policy and the provision of Article 50 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia on the right to social security, have not been examined. Mr Tanko, President or leader of the largest coalition party, said that the urgency made it impossible to examine all aspects of the government proposal. Therefore, some of us sitting in Parliament today give a skepticism – absolutely. I believe that I have made it very clear that I have made clear where the skepticism which gives me the opportunity to press the "yes" button and open the door, as we have heard today, is constitutional change; we do not know what the consequences will be. Every decision has weight, said Mr Borut Pahor, and I say that every decision has consequences. If that is not the case, then I really don't know why we are rushing to enter the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by entering a golden fiscal rule. The government has a majority, the government vehemently, despite agreement with the social partners, despite agreement with the opposition parties, it adopts its proposals, which touch on finance and which touch not only certain partial measures, but also say that they represent structural changes in our country. Tomorrow the government, as far as I know from the daily newspaper, is supposed to consider my marriage. In one law, the Government also intervenes in the field of social security, which is now regulated by 37 sectoral laws. I will read to you how the Government presents itself with a budget balance, just some of the provisions of the budget balance law. Family benefits and scholarships: free kindergarten for another child is abolished; for an older child, parents pay for one lower price. The right to free kindergarten ends on 1 July 2012. The maximum amount of parental compensation shall be reduced from 2.5 times the average monthly salary to 1.5 times the average monthly salary. This means that no woman, no matter how much she has earned and, of course, has paid in, will receive more than €2,000 for nine months. Parental compensation, except for a maternity allowance of 3 months 100 %, shall be reduced to 90 % of the base by 6 months and 80 % by the last three months. The price to receive a child supplement, gifts at birth and a large family allowance is 64% of the average wage per family member. Well, if I go further, I will not read all those measures that are in the area of family benefits and scholarships; among other things, student vouchers are cancelled in July and August and so on. On the labour market, the basic amount of minimum income until 31 December 2014 shall be EUR 260. Until 31 December 2014, financial social assistance shall not be granted to a single person or family with savings or assets to be taken into account under the Social Security Benefits Act, EUR 13 000 780. Retirement area. Some pensions provided by the Republic of Slovenia from the state budget and not related to contributions paid, such as the NOB and other war veterans, will be reduced. By 2014, the annual allowance shall be abolished for all pensioners who receive more than €622. Those who receive less than €414 are paid at €367, while others are paid at €111. And these government measures, I suppose, will be taken tomorrow at the meeting, and will also be confirmed by the government majority in the National Assembly, past the writing of the fiscal rule into the constitution. Dear Minister, will citizens and citizens of our country live better once we have a golden fiscal rule written in the constitution? I'm saying no. Because of these consequences that I have mentioned and all those that are in the balance of the budget and which, I fear, will continue in the coming years and will be even more drastic. Today, no one is talking about how transfers will be reduced to local communities. Today, no one talks about how certain emergency services in individual regions are discontinued. These are the measures that are the result of reckless and uncoordinated government actions. Therefore, I say that it is not just some partial measure, but I say that it is a very important systemic action that will have long-term consequences. And once again, my predecessors and my fellow Members have already talked about this – why such a rush. The coordinator of this special expert committee in the context of the constitutional changes, Dr Cerar, has even said that everything is taking place under some governmental pressure, which means that professional decisions are less qualitative. Let me remind you again: it is not true that the expert commission fully supported and agreed to a government proposal. The expert committee made quite a few comments. One of these comments, which, according to my assessment, is fundamental and crucial, I have highlighted, and this is a non-compliance with Article 50 of the Constitution of Slovenia. By the way, to touch another area in our country, we also know the law of social security. This social security law, in one of its points or experts in this field, very clearly points out that, even in times of financial and economic crisis or significant deterioration of the economic and social capacity of the State, it also prevents the destruction of the fundamental social rights of individuals. How, in a way — perhaps it would make sense to consider extending Article 50 and installing an additional fuse in this area. As a matter of fact, I don't believe in such haste and incomprehensible solutions. I don't believe it because I say that every decision, apart from having a weight, has an absolute effect. I will remind you, but I do not want to point to anyone about the importance of the decisions of the undeclared pension law – it weighs about 300 million euros and this weight or the consequences are borne by us today. And remember who voted in favour of the referendum in our country. I wasn't in the National Assembly at the time, but there were some of you who pressed the "yes" button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grims, get ready for Dr. Andrej Crnak Neglich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u44	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! I agree with everyone who has pointed out the importance of this moment. Indeed, today the sovereignty of any modern state is not primarily defended in the battlefield as it once was; sovereignty first defends itself with a good, functioning, successful entrepreneurship, therefore with a well-functioning economy. This is the measure that we are taking today, the writing of a golden rule on a balanced budget into the Slovenian Constitution. A country that is excessively indebted and therefore in difficulty loses an objectively large part of its sovereignty. This measure, which we are deciding today, is in some way a long-term defence of the sovereignty of the Slovenian State against the temptation of any authority to continue the policy we have unfortunately observed over the last three years, because if we continue to do so, the country would be very quick to experience the Greek scenario. I hope no one wants to do that, because there's a lot behind them. Here is another reason why you are really in a hurry — what some have disputed. It is also a matter of economic growth. Indeed, today we are deciding to introduce a golden rule on a balanced budget into the Constitution. This is, for its extremely important, unequivocal political signal, intended for everyone in Slovenia who plans to spend, as well as for everyone abroad, who, for such or other reasons, assess our competitiveness in the field of the economy, in the field of public finances, so that we take the long-term stability of public finances seriously. All this impact on credit ratings. The credit ratings, together with the measures that our country will be obliged to implement, will certainly mean easier access to money for Slovenian banks, Slovenian entrepreneurship, in particular small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which is the engine of any successful economy, thus encouraging the opening of new jobs and the preservation of existing ones. Now I ask you when you were talking about social security, what is more social security than preserving jobs that give social security not only to those employees in entrepreneurship but also to their families. This is the greatest social security! From this point of view, such a measure is also extremely important for maintaining and enhancing social security. There's something else you can't forget. Some of you have even suggested that today we will collapse the public sector, and I say that the introduction of the Golden Rule into the Slovenian Constitution is also in the interest of the public sector in the long term, because the system of stable public finances with everything it covers means a quality, stable economic environment that entrepreneurship needs that entrepreneurship values. If we do not establish it, this means either the continued deterioration of entrepreneurs or – which I believe is even more likely – in the conditions of Schengen in which we are, under the conditions of the European Union, their departure is abroad. Do you know what that means in practice? To pay taxes there, in Austria, to some foreign countries, Slovenian taxpayers will have none of this. The Slovenian public administration, the Slovenian public sector is paid from taxes collected, precisely from this money and it is therefore the preservation of jobs in entrepreneurship, the promotion of entrepreneurship, the establishment of long-term, stable conditions for strengthening Slovenian entrepreneurship in the life interests of the Slovenian public sector, because it is only there that it can obtain money for its existence, for its wages, for its further development; all that we understand as a social state, which we are accustomed to and after which we assess its success. There's no other source. Slovenia alone does not have its own printing money today, as it once was in Belgrade. Today we are part of a larger system of the European Union, we have entered the euro area, and this is a fundamental macroeconomic condition within which we must find an optimal solution. The optimal solution, if we want to set it up in the long term, but with a signal that will also work in the short term in terms of a better rating, capital valuation, preservation and strengthening of the opening of new jobs in the field of entrepreneurship and thus more revenue collected in budgets, which can then also be used for the benefit of the public sector to maintain jobs there, to preserve the quality of services – or to strengthen the quality of services in this area – is, of course, the adoption of this golden rule and its introduction into the Constitution not only in the interests of the State of Slovenia, but also the speediest possible introduction of this rule into the Constitution in the interests of the country of Slovenia. For whatever reason, those who delay or even prevent it must be aware that they are working for Slovenian entrepreneurship, for all the people who are working for their jobs, for their salaries, irreparable long-term damage and responsibility for it will bear before all history.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Roman Zveglich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings for me, too. My friend Frangež said it wasn't easy for him today. It's still not easy for him. It wasn't easy for me yesterday. I sincerely hoped that, following yesterday's debate at the Constitutional Commission, a decision would be taken to decide on such an important item of the agenda as we have today in the National Assembly, but would delay in some future time. We cannot fool ourselves into deciding on this important issue – and I think it is a very important question – but it is taking place in some very acute situations. We cannot somehow think that we are actually deciding and discussing a vacuum. Outside there are proposals for amending or rebalancing the budget with concrete solutions that people are thinking about, seeing them and knowing what this will bring to their lives, not to mention all the interventions to the social state that Tuvševa has already talked about. The climate of mistrust is extraordinary, extremely large. Second point. We are talking about the dilemmas raised yesterday by experts who participated and assisted the Constitutional Commission, as well as colleagues and fellow Members who participate in this committee, from turmins, what is involved, what is not involved, how such a decision actually affects the elements already adopted in our Constitution – specifically the 50th article concerning the social state. All these great dilemmas are unresolved. And now you think we should make a decision in such a complete atmosphere of uncertainty and doubts and mistrust?Oh, my God! Yes, colleagues and colleagues, there is also great mutual mistrust, which is also justified when we express our own concerns and suggestions, and they are simply ignored. In particular, I will mention the debate on the national development programme, where I have made it very clear to you that important savings and an important message to the European Union could also be sent by relaunching the debate on pension reform immediately after the legal deadline. Because I believe that you are smarter than us, you will be able to bring it out with significantly fewer conflicts by the end of the year and thus save the country – that is to say a medium-term fiscal obligation for 0.7% of gross domestic product. And you say it's not a rush, it doesn't matter, we'll do it tomorrow, in a little while, by the end of 2014, when this commitment is due. I think smart politics, however, sees it necessary to adopt important historical, whatever you call them, decisions with the maximum degree of consent. Therefore, I think it is still a wise suggestion that we should hold a debate today and postpone the decision to a time when these particular concerns and dilemmas can also be resolved. For something is perfectly clear, you need our votes when you need a two-thirds majority, when you have enough of your common majority, then you do not need our votes. Therefore, dear colleagues, I do not intend to support today's decision, but I would in any way support the procedural decision to postpone the decision and to hold a thorough debate and reflection on the dilemmas raised in relation to the fiscal rule. Once again, I have no doubt that the fiscal rule must be properly enforced, but in a way that will not leave as many doubts and dilemmas as we have today and in such an atmosphere when we decide on this historic decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Žveglich has the floor. Get ready, mag. Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u48	Your Honor! Well, since I've been calling from these benches for the first time, forgive me for being a little nervous or some other stuff. Why do I think that the golden fiscal rule should be enshrined in the constitution? Not because of the lower interest rates, that we will have better ratings and that we will prevent the referendum and the rest; in my opinion, in particular to protect this country, which we have helped to create in one way or another, each one in his own way, from our own greed, foolishness, perhaps even from the temptation of the rulers or, not least, all of us. When we hear about the social state, what should happen in this social state, if we accept it, I will quote that there would be no condemnation of plagiarism, former German Chancellor Kohl, who said about "the state is not a cow that would graze in heaven and could be milked on earth and given us any other joy". Of course, the cow has to be fed, only then can you milk it. Why, then, immediately — with us in the land, on farmers we stick to that old proverb that you can do today — do not put up with what you can tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Ambrožič, get Mr. Joseph Kavticnik ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all your colleagues and colleagues! True, the fiscal gold rule is not nuclear physics and is certainly not one of the road traffic regulations that Tonin used comparatively in his speech. The creator of the concept of a golden fiscal rule probably knew what psychology means to name a particular product or service, so I seriously doubt that everyone today would lose so many words if this rule, say, were to bear the name of a bronze or even a garish gold rule, because probably no one would put it in a constitutionally written record – which represents the constitution as the highest national act. This has been discussed several times today. I myself recall that, as a student of law, I met with the concept of the Constitution, if not before, in the case of the subject constitutional law, where this definition was stressed to represent the Constitution of each country's greatest legal act, so its changes – as has been said today – were not only five of them from independence to today, but seven – constitute a major intervention in this area, which is very sensitive. Today we continue to debate in a broader composition, as was yesterday's debate within the Constitutional Commission, so I do not intend to lose my words on yesterday's reservations made in the context of the plenary at that time. Personally, however, it certainly bothers me, which has already been exposed several times today, the way in which we were faced with this speed of convening today's extraordinary meeting when voting on yesterday's proposal. That is why it is difficult for me to weigh my decision in favour or against this proposal, which I think is too quick and certainly not well thought out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mag. Borut Ambrožič spoke instead of Masha Kociper. Now Mr Jožef Kavtičnik has the floor to prepare Mrs Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I am neither a lawyer nor an economist, so I have listened with great attention to all those who know this matter much better. I also listened to lawyers, and yesterday I accompanied a meeting of the Constitutional Commission. From everything I could hear, from everything I could understand, I couldn't convince myself that I could decide today and vote for this fiscal rule, the golden fiscal rule, to enter our constitution. Personally, I am always skeptical when the issue of the Constitution and constitutional changes is raised. That is why I allowed myself and found out what Mr. Miro Cerar Jr., Mr. France Bučar and Mr. Tone Jerovšek thought about this at the 20th anniversary of Slovenia’s independence. For example, Mr Miro Cerar, Jr., said: "It would make sense to consider changes in the points governing the legislative referendum, but this should be done very carefully and thoroughly." So all the changes that we would make should be made in a thoughtful and thorough manner. This haste doesn't do any good. Mr France Bučar said somehow that the Constitution is perfectly fine and in principle does not need any changes. The Constitution is based on the concept of a positive view of the world. Mr Tone Jerovšek said: "The Constitution is good, as regards the protection of human rights and freedoms. It has minor shortcomings, such as the appointment of a government or ministers, and the provisions on the Constitutional Court should be amended." Respecting the referendum, that is, human will and so forth, doesn't bother him, and he wouldn't change that. But I would take this right of Members. However, Article 3 should be amended, which transfers part of sovereignty to the European Union, which is contrary to the Article in the Constitution, which stipulates that the Constitution is the highest legal act in our country. This means that a number of changes should be made, not just to introduce this fiscal rule into the constitution. None of these experts mentioned that this should be done. There's been a lot of talk lately about belt tightening, and maybe that's why I forgot to wear my belt today, because it's kind of frozen when I take the belt into my hands, because people are constantly and have to tighten the belt every day. This fear — we know what people face today and even today in front of television when they listen to us. Anyone who knows little about psychology knows that fear is counterproductive to creativity and relaxation. So it's not good for us to scare people, but let's give them a little more optimism. However, to write in the constitution a golden fiscal rule for us to bear responsibility or to increase responsibility is strange to me. Because responsibility somehow builds up in the educational process, in the educational process: we will accept a certain responsibility, not by writing something into the constitution. Therefore, I am truly skeptical that such a thing must be enshrined in the Constitution in order to adhere to certain rules. I have been living and working for some time now, and I have been responsible — not because of the constitution, but because my father taught me this because my parents showed me this, and because somehow I knew that what I could do alone with the hard work would be something I could live off. That is why I will remain today and I will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs. Romana Tomc has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. Today, Slovenia would not be in this situation, as if it had introduced this fiscal rule 10 years ago, as many other countries have done. I am not saying that we would not be in crisis today, but our deficit would certainly be much smaller and we would be on the path of those countries that are successfully consolidating their public finances today, not those that are increasing their debt. But apparently the state behaves equally irrationally, as do all of us, individuals on an individual level. The promise is great, the goals are high, but the realization is weaker. If we look at, say, the 2009 budget, what was this gap between our promises and between our expectations, then we can see that our budget expenditure increased by 8%, despite the fact that our budget revenues decreased by as much as 22%. It is said that we are living on those abilities that we are actually overpowering. And that we will still be a little bit self-critical about ourselves: if we had this gold rule 10 years ago, as I said, then even at the time that was mentioned many times today, when high economic growth, we could create some savings for future times that were more critical. But more than not saving, it seems to me that when the crisis came, we were unable to adjust our income or expenditure to our income. Today, we have repeatedly mentioned our debt, our debt, and the interest we pay on this account. I like to go through the data myself, make some comparisons, and this time I did. The 700 million that have already been mentioned today, let us see what they really mean. In fact, this means all the maternity benefits last year, it means all the baby supplements last year and also all the scholarships last year. As much as we've paid for these expenses, we're going to pay this year's interest. Compare with other data: €700 million means a million 130 thousand average pensions, means a million minimum wages, and if we translate into time, instead of these interest rates we could pay all pensions in Slovenia. Instead, 800 million or 700 million could pay scholarships of about 150 euros to all in secondary schools or colleges, without exception. That is why these matters are extremely serious. The urgency of introducing the Golden Rule is not only symbolic, but, of course, it is also part of the truth that one cannot live off the promise. Remember the stability programme, this is the document in which every year we write down our plans on public financial policy, and we send this to Brussels so that we can be monitored. Every year we wrote down something else that was later realized. Every year we have written down that the crisis is that the revenues, such as that the deficit is rising, but we have still held back the consolidation of public finances and moved it to the next year. That's what we've been doing for three years, and we all knew we shouldn't do that because we didn't have a fiscal rule written down. If we did, this rule would limit us to such acts. It is obvious, therefore, that political commitments are not enough and that we need a clear rule. The experience of other countries shows that this is necessary and appropriate and that this is to be done. That is why I think it is right for us to take care of this record as soon as possible in our country, because it is my best guardian, not for us, but for future generations, that we will allow them to live in a social state as we wish for ourselves today. I therefore support the adoption of the fiscal rule below. For today, however, I would only warn that, respected colleagues and colleagues, that today we are not adopting a fiscal rule and that we are not in a hurry, we are starting the procedure today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word. Get Mr. Joseph Horvat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Prime Minister Janez Janša said after yesterday's meeting of the presidents of the parliamentary parties that the fiscal rule is the basis of the stable development of Slovenia and an important signal from the state to the world that Slovenia is a long-term stable environment and that this will reduce the cost of our country's debt. But we can also ask ourselves how many positive signals the previous government has produced have successfully collapsed and torpedoed as leader of the biggest opposition party in the previous term. Let's take a look at some of them. For example, stubbornly insisting on the ratification of the Act of Accession of Croatia to NATO at the conclusion of the 2007 final account; then breaking the agreements and referendum on the arbitration agreement with Croatia; then, for example, opposed to all the reform laws on the Super Referendum Sunday of June last year or breaking the intervention law, disrupting the 2011 state budget balance, which would save 365 million; and finally disrupting the reconstruction of the previous government in September 2011. All of this destruction has greatly irritated the money and lowered our credit ratings. We have lost a lot of time, mainly because of and only because of the party's struggle to take power. Does anyone else remember when we had our last regular meeting of the National Assembly in this room? I think it's July or September. The first regular session of Parliament will be held only on Monday 2nd in April. All these months have somehow gone to nothing when the country could take appropriate action. If we had a slightly more state-of-the-art opposition in the previous term, today's problems would not be so great. Today, I would expect a little more self-criticism from the government, and sincere regret for some of the moves in the previous term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor, instead of Mrs Janje Klasinc, to prepare Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u58	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I am closely following today's debate and making a comparison between the promises we all made during the electoral campaign for the early elections on 4 December last year. I'm sure it's up to us all, on our faces at least a fraction of the red. We have not promised people the cuts that the Government must now prepare and will come as a proposal to the National Assembly. Surely we can unite in at least one point: our common homework is the consolidation of public finances – consolidation, or balance, or recovery. I'm sure there's not one of my colleagues here who would say that he doesn't want to sign under this homework. The starting point for my debate is the consolidation of public finances and economic growth. We have already heard today that, before we consolidate public finances, economic growth must be ensured, growth must be ensured in the country, with large, mega public investments. I wonder how — with higher VAT?Oh, my God! With more expensive money?Oh, my God! With more expensive loans?Oh, my God! And without calculating the profitability threshold?Oh, my God! We are talking too little about this, ladies and gentlemen, right on the threshold of profitability. I am not euphoric, the consolidation of public finances, with which the National Assembly is responsible, will produce results only in the medium term, while it may even result in a fall in economic activity within a short period of time. I am not one to say that by writing down the golden fiscal rule into the Slovenian Constitution we solve all the public financial problems. If the consolidation of public finances is not achieved, low economic activity, even its collapse or final decomposition, will continue for many years in Slovenia. Similar measures to rationalise labour costs, as the Slovenian government is now planning on public sector wages and employment, have already been taken by most European Union countries. These are the facts. And the measures the Government is preparing in the area of wages are something completely normal in the context of the European Union at a time when most countries are facing the challenge of fiscal consolidation. During the post-2008 economic crisis, we lost 55,000 jobs in Slovenia. Where, in which sector? In the private sector and in the real sector. What about the public sector? The private sector has already adapted to the crisis, unfortunately we are also witnessing a number of corporate bankruptcys. We cannot claim to adapt the public sector because, on the other hand, there has been an increase in the number of employees in public services since 2008, especially in education, health and social protection. I have no intention of whipping employees in the public sector, these are people of respect worthy and useful and important for this country. But I'm just warning you, maybe not so much for the historic moment, for a moment of truth. That's what we're dealing with. Another thought I think is important at this point, and this is that fiscal rules can be successfully implemented over time only if the public sees them as a valuable policy contribution. It should be pointed out that a country cannot achieve good public finances without an appropriate approach to its citizens. Its task is to enlighten citizens and prepare them for responsible behaviour and reflection, as otherwise it is not possible to achieve and implement all the reforms and measures necessary to introduce fair taxes, reduce public expenditure and maintain a balance between public financial revenues and public financial expenditure in the provision of a social state, as already enshrined in Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution. The Economic and Monetary Union represents a new development in history, although this is today, at this moment Euroscepticism is extremely difficult to understand. For the first time, a number of countries, to this day 17, have adopted a common currency and maintained an independent fiscal policy. The monetary union was overwhelmed by the need for fiscal rules, which became the focus of the debate in the early 1990s, when no one has thought about the global, economic and financial crisis. Although there were several arguments against the application of such rules, it was generally felt that those rules would have a positive impact on the fiscal situation of countries with high deficits. Inadequate fiscal policy has a definitely negative impact on price stability, growth and employment. High public deficits and high public debt hinder the country from operating between different stages of the business cycle. They also have a negative impact on private investment and increases long-term interest rates. These problems are particularly expressed in the monetary union, where one country's policy can also affect other countries. The purpose of fiscal rules, as we understand in New Slovenia, is therefore to ensure the proper management of fiscal policy on individual countries, but to allow sufficient budgetary flexibility. The optimum fiscal rule must be sufficiently simple, flexible and growth-oriented. The problem arises when certain properties can be excluded from each other. A simple rule is not necessarily flexible enough, and the balance of accounting and financial conservativity is certainly not damaging. The fiscal framework in the European Monetary Union has evolved gradually. The 1992 Maastricht Treaty laid down fiscal criteria for countries wishing to join the monetary union and the 1997 Stability and Growth Pact developed these criteria and enabled fiscal stability for countries already members of the Union. The Pact strengthened the control procedures and supplemented them with quantitative rules. Since 2007, Slovenia has also become a member of the Economic and Monetary Union, which represents the final stage of economic integration in the European Union. This fact convinces me that I will support the decision to initiate a procedure to amend the Slovenian Constitution. Some of the countries that we like to set as our model, and which are also our biggest economic partners, have done this a long time ago; it is said that warm water has already been discovered. I invite you to reconsider, of course, those who do not want to sign under the domestic responsibility of consolidating public finances, to consider and support constitutional changes in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic has the floor. Get ready, Mrs. Patricia Shulin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u60	Dear, Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I'm going to say that I have a very important book in my time with great instructions. Yesterday, on the Constitutional Commission, of course, I voted in favour of the procedure to go into change, and today, I am still equally convinced that I will vote in favour, unlike some, but if I listened to Mr Grimes a little longer in his address, I would change my mind. So many dry things! I think some of you have literally outdone the best poets and preachers with today's speech. I listened to so many Lithuanians that I was almost moved to leave this hall and actually go somewhere else and get some rest because I don't think this car is actually going in the right direction. The fact is that we have all come to realize that something must be done, a fiscal rule must be adopted in order to prevent further indebtedness of this country. We should have done this a long time ago. It would be very nice if we accepted this already in 2008, and we would not have had such a table here when we committed 23.2% of our debt in these three years. A very cruel truth, but what will be our words if we do not feel it and carry it within us! So, the golden rule. Name it however you want it to be a diamond rule, but no rule will help us if we do not actually do it in practice and if we do not act like one. I find that we lack a lot of political culture in this poor country and that we are giving ourselves here – depending on who is in power. Finally, in the SDS, they came to realize that it is necessary to work for the development of the country — good morning! In your previous reference, you did exactly the opposite, you destroyed all the reforms proposed by the then Prime Minister and the coalition that led this country – unfortunately at the time of the recession – and were not successful. In the SLS, the gentleman found that they were ready to take responsibility for the country today. Thank you very much. That's a very nice point. You're ready. And that's commendable. But who isn't?Oh, my God! Who's not ready? Today I feel like we're here to fill up the TV program SLO 3 so that we can be watched at home by those who have nothing better to do. Borut Pahor, former Prime Minister, notes that he has failed to convince his Members and Members to vote in favour of continuing this process, which we are discussing today. Very interesting. Well, we're in a hurry. The problem may be that we have no calculations, we have no analysis of what else can happen to us if we put this fiscal rule in the constitution. Could it also happen to us as a boomerang to prevent the normal development of the country that we all so eagerly want? Perhaps it would be right to have all the calculations available today, with everything that our President Zoran Jankovic at the Villa Podržnik conditioned, if I say so, because it is not only enough in the whole of the curved words, but in fact a strong calculation must be made and many things must be foreseen. Also yesterday, on the Constitutional Commission, colleague Bratušek did not get an answer as to what might happen to us, let's say if the 3-billion-dollar guarantee for Dars is being cashed out, and we have a limit. Then what are we going to do with the pliers? Where do we cut it? Are we going to end all pensions or something else during that period? Therefore, we really only warn those who are the greats of this Slovenia and this country, all those who have had the time to lead this country for 20 years, and those who have the time today to lead this country in this reference, in this mandate for the next four years, to gather together, to give your heads together and to make a wiser and give a literal analysis of the situation – not to us, the opposition, because we are not the ones who expect it and demand it, but to all citizens and citizens. Him! Because in four years, or as long as you manage to keep the government, you will actually bear this responsibility. Today, Mr Tanko said it could be the opposition, but I think today is more difficult for the opposition than for you who are in position. You just have to do it, and so do we. It's just that, at least that's how I understand it. But the fiscal rule, the only real reason to confirm today, why to vote for, is this signal that we, as Slovenia, will send to Europe, that we will be more in debt, for as long as we can even be in debt. And for this reason my trifle gives you a voice; I give you a voice – not to you, the coalition, give this voice to the state because it is a necessity. But how you drive and drive forward is up to you, because you actually have the majority. I'm always hurt by the fact that you want to mark us in one way or another, that the opposition is destroying everything you're suggesting. That's not true! We'll back it up. Today our President, Zoran Jankovic, has said clearly and loudly to our parliamentary group: always vote according to your conscience. It doesn't force anyone, like maybe it's done somewhere or done. And it is right for each of us to vote on our conscience. That is why you will experience here today that we will not all vote unitedly, especially because we are in a hurry to get ahead of ourselves. Because what you've written down, dear gentlemen, is not right in the balance, because this is actually going, if you read it, in the opposite direction and it's moving away from the social state. Let me finish with the paragraph in your program – which is already falling apart in my hands, but I don't know why – because you didn't take into account in the balance a lot of the good things written in this program. This program is very good, if not even excellent; however, you did not use it in the balance. On page 81, you wrote that the reduction of excise duties – for example, "the excise policy of the current government in the field of petroleum derivatives is economic absurdity. The high and non-competitive prices of oil derivatives are reducing demand and thus consumption and the resulting revenues of the state budget. We propose such a excise policy that oil derivatives prices will be 5% to 10% lower than prices in the neighbouring most cost-effective countries." Recently, I have seen on TV reports that it appears that we will achieve that the prices of oil derivatives or oil in Slovenia will reach even 2 euros. Look, you wrote something down here and you promised. It is a good politician who adheres to what he writes, and what he says will not really fulfill what our President Zoran Jankovic has repeatedly stressed that you speak one another, do the other. And show him that he made a mistake that Zoran Jankovic was wrong. Until now, as his Member, I am sure that Zoran Jankovic is always right, and you prove otherwise, and then you will have congratulations on my part too. But to the Minister who said that fiscally it is not nuclear physics – it is financial physics, Mr. Minister! Financial physics. I hope that you will also know how to do this by bringing this country out of the trouble that we have brought it to politicians, politicians and the number of big people who are not here today and who are eager to hide. I invite them all, go to John Janša, who runs this government, and help him solve this situation in this country, because this is your civil right and duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs. Patricia Shulin has the floor. Instead of Renata Brunskola, the mags are being prepared. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. All in attendance, all in attendance! The initiation of a procedure to amend Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law is necessary, as it is of paramount importance for all citizens, as well as for all future generations of the Republic of Slovenia. It is important that we re-establish public finances within the framework of sustainability, thus stabilising our fiscal policy. Switzerland and Germany were much better prepared for the crisis than Slovenia for having adopted similar constitutional provisions before the crisis. There are limited possibilities for further indebtedness in international markets. Slovenia is assessed as a country with a low ability to manage public finances. The responsibility of Slovenia is a serious problem for all of us. If we continued to be indebted as in the last three years, this would mean that the current public debt of over 48% of gross domestic product would continue to increase and would quickly exceed 60%, i.e. the ceiling set by the Stability and Growth Pact. The economic and financial crisis has reduced economic growth across the European Union, in which we are interconnected, and mechanisms that will effectively regulate the financial market need to be put in place as soon as possible so that the financial stability of the European area is no longer compromised. The introduction of a fiscal rule into the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia means limiting the country's indebtedness, ensuring the long-term sustainability of public finances and, above all, for future generations. This will ensure a normal future for them that they do not have to work for past debts. I will therefore today support the initiation of a constitutional change procedure, and I hope that at the end of today's session this importance of starting a constitutional change will be supported by all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek. Get ready, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u64	Thank you very much for the word and a nice greeting to all in my name! I will also begin myself with Mr Grims and the historical responsibility he puts on our soul, our heart, and I don't know where else. Where, ladies and gentlemen, it was and is also your responsibility when you broke the pension reform first and the other two reforms, plus, just in case, Mr Pahor's government. Yesterday it was said not to serve with specific information where it was written. I suggest you read more recommendations from the Council of Europe, and for many years we are told that this is absolutely necessary. However, if this is too difficult, I propose that you read at least the opinion of the section on the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend Article 148 of the Constitution, which states that "the need for fiscal consolidation and the creation of budgetary surpluses during the period of medium-term growth is also necessary due to the ageing of the population. For many years now, reports on the sustainability of the European Commission's public finances have put Slovenia among countries with a high level of risk due to the future public financial costs associated with population ageing." I think you're the last one who can give us a mirror of responsibility. We have already proved to you that we also support government proposals because we are aware of our responsibility, unlike you, who did not know this in the previous term. Secondly, I propose that you take into account the Public Finance Act, which, in its Article 2, these are the objectives of the budget and the principles of the law, point 7 states that the budget must be balanced between revenue and expenditure. Does that look familiar to you? And that has been true since 1999! The first point of this Article says that "in preparing and implementing the budget, it is necessary to strive for macroeconomic stability and to ensure sustainable and stable national economic development". It is said: absolutely those who think seriously about the need to consolidate public finances do not need to change constitutions so quickly, on their noses, from today to tomorrow. We warned you about this yesterday at the Constitutional Commission for three hours, and no one wanted to hear us. I will say that I don't understand Mr Pahor at this point either, because he is also talking about the history of this moment. I think it's more historically important than the fact that at this point, today, the constitutional change process begins and we put it in the constitution, that's the first thing. The measures that are before us are, in my view, significantly more historic for Slovenia and Slovenian citizens. We have certainly offered you a hand to agree on this, but you were not prepared to listen to further arguments. I hope that it is clear to all those today who are vehemently advocating a government proposal to amend the constitution that this government proposal is no longer because the expert committee has proposed something completely different – I hope that we all know what we are talking about; in short, what the Government has proposed. This is no longer in line with the opinion of the expert committee. Today, I have heard from several mouths that we are still supporting government proposals. Because it's gone, I'm going to tell you where my concerns are, and yesterday we haven't received any answers from the expert committee. It may sound like the same thing, but we've changed the definition of revenue and expenditure. This is far from just a methodological question, but there is a significant difference in data capture. We have replaced the 'State sector', which is a broad term with 'public finances', which is a narrower term. Why? Why? Can anyone tell us why we went either one step back or one step forward? In short, we don't know. Today, you are asking us to take urgent action to change the constitution — and that people will not misunderstand — far away from changing the constitution. As we have said, we have offered you a hand, but we want precise answers to what this means. But it's not from the expert commission, not from the minister – we'll all be there. You just press that "yes", and then once we get the calculations, we get the law, we get everything, just to get it started. If I understand correctly, your goal is also to accept this in the month of April. But there can only be one reason for this, and that is to prevent people from getting a referendum on the austerity measures you are preparing. All right, that's your right, too, but tell them honestly and let's say so. And once again: absolutely not against the fiscal rule being enshrined in the Constitution in such or otherwise. I would say that we are in a hurry because you obviously don't trust yourself to make budgets together that lead us to consolidation of public finances without a fiscal rule. We, too, have had the consolidation of public finances written even as a priority in our programme, only the way to get there is significantly different from how you handled these matters. I'd also say that my colleague has already told you about this book of yours. It absolutely needs a lot of revision because here you have 10 solutions for the first 100 days – I can read them, but I don't think any of them are real. A hundred days of government will soon pass. Below you have 100 solutions for Slovenia. You have, I think, proposed to the social partners 106, but not one, not one of these 100!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potrat, get ready, Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. The fiscal rule that we are discussing today will be put in place and is the basis of the law on the ratification of the Intergovernmental Treaty on the Fiscal Pact. This should enter into force on 1 January 2013, but at least 12 countries must first ratify this matter. So the field of unknown and irresponsible is still very wide, because in Europe too the opinion on the incorporation of fiscal rules into legislation is the fruit of different positions of experts, both economic and other professions. I thank the working group, which was appointed by the Constitutional Commission, i.e. this section, for its prepared opinion, because it strengthened my conviction that I had formed it when I listened to and read Slovenian experts, what does the writing of the fiscal rule mean in the Constitution mean, and I have always held this position very tightly. Everything I have read has only strengthened me in my restraint, and today I listen to the discussions of some who see the fiscal rule as a magic wand and others as a homework. For one thing, I must say that they prove, do not resent, political naivety, i.e. those first ones who talk about the magic wand, and for others, some very patronizing paternalist attitude towards things, because we know about their homework, they can be written about by someone else. There's only so much about it. But look. The expert group explained in the introductory explanation that it did not define up to some things, more detailed questions, because it did not have enough time. Time is an important dimension that should also be considered when talking about such important matters. If only the fiscal rule had such miraculous power as was spoken of, what would have happened if it had been accepted 10 years ago. The colleague Bratušek said that since 1999 the requirement for balance has been the basis in public finances. So what happened?Oh, my God! So much for what politics can accept and apply and what it can't. Nor is that such an empty requirement that all expenditure must be recorded in the budget. Just remember the story of confirming the closing account, where some things were included or not. In this opinion, I also read this statement: "Slovenia expected the crisis to be relatively low, in the European scale of under-average public debt, but with a problematic structure of the economy that has failed to be permanently removed from the crisis." We also read when fiscal sovereignty can be maintained. But this is important to me! Structural deficits always occur in good years when different rights are shared, both tax reliefs and transfers, and the problem is felt only at the time of the recession. Here is the hint of this problem that you do not want to admit, because we are still talking about it, and this government has now said that structural reforms for Europe and for better ratings were not important. Why not? The pension reform was also linked to Slovenia's credit ratings. Now you claim to have supported everything that was coordinated. I'm sorry, as far as I can remember, with the social partners, the law on job prevention and employment has been in black coordination and has fallen. However, I would not like to remind you of what could have been heard in the debates in the National Assembly. Indeed, the expert group wrote that it is in principle in agreement with the inclusion of this principle at the principal level in the Constitution, but this is because it does not seem appropriate for it to bear the burden of indebtedness to the next generation. You know, when we weigh matters, when the Constitutional Court will allow a referendum or when it will not allow it – when it weighs this right to public declaration of people, it is too often that Slovenia is also a social state and that social rights can also be endangered. There's only one thing I can do for you. The inclusion of children in the first age group up to free kindergarten for the second child was under the Lisbon objectives of 29%. Immediately in 2010, 2011 rose and is now reaching 55% inclusion. That's the kind of involvement I support so there won't be any mistake, but now we want to reject it. That is why I think that caution and restraint in deciding things when we do not know what it will actually say, and we need to decide, in fact, just to start the procedure, is justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Instead of mags. Alenke Bratušek should prepare Mr Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! The balance of public finances is a necessity in this country, and this ungrateful work must be approached with all its strength, with all its instruments and immediately. I think this has been achieved at several meetings, the meetings of the presidents of the parliamentary parties. The last one was on Tuesday's show. And that unity was still achieved there. As a result, it seems to me that it is perfectly logical that the current government has taken the present power very seriously. For in the pre-election campaign and even later in the Government's establishment, a general message was sent by all opposition Members who in any way expressed themselves that this government should show as soon as possible that it is working, that it has serious objectives and that it is aware of the criticality of the situation in the country. During yesterday's meeting of the Constitutional Commission, I looked with some optimism at the rise in the judgment of some opposition Members who were initially anarchistically in a state-of-the-art mood to the problem we were dealing with. And the final outcome of the vote was unity, ladies and gentlemen, after it was said that the President of the Party of Positive Slovenia, Mr Jankovic, at the rally of all the presidents of the parties provided support; it seemed earlier that this unity did not appear that some Members would vote differently. It surprises me today, and I am disappointed that, with such serious topics, such urgent topics, I have seen in the debates of Members of the internal party competition, internal client accounts, internal party succession fights and internal party division. I think that by sending a country into the flood any Member, even though it comes from the opposition party, will be difficult to improve internal client ratings; this does not bring political points. That's why the call for sobriety and awareness is needed. Again and again we need to be warned, because here we hear that the golden fiscal rule is something that will be like a golden egg that will bring some political advantages and points to this authority. I think we are aware that this does not bring gold into the budget and the gold tides, but that gold is the fiscal rule of the sword of Damocles, which will be constantly hanging over any authority that will cut political heads if things in the country do not go in the right direction. Be aware that these are your weapons, opposition MPs! The legitimate weapon of the opposition, Damocle's sword, I say again! Because on the basis of this, if the government doesn't work properly, if it doesn't lead the country in the right direction, you're going to invest in interpretations, you're going to propose non-truststers and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where you agree to debates in Parliament, different positions. You agree with me that the opposition systematically doubts the positive work of the government in all the political affairs of the day that are currently political. However, no opposition can afford that in key areas of foreign policy or the future survival of the country does not behave constructively, but recklessly and unseriously. That's why I was disappointed after yesterday's optimism when I felt the drinking responses of the biggest party at the start of the championship. You know, it's not good that we transfer nympho Pitio or something like that to our Parliament in serious matters. Drinking answers in this area do not bring political benefits. Here we need to be extremely clear and look to the future of the country. Don't calculate it for two days ahead! Ladies and gentlemen, someone said he was afraid of introducing this rule, that fear would not contribute to creativity, but, ladies and gentlemen, spreading fear of the golden rule is harmful. This destroys people's creativity and the people's confidence that this country can be drawn out of the mud. If you do not agree, if some do not, I know that there are different opinions that I will not generalise – those who do not have confidence that this country can still be drawn to the better, that it is necessary to give an opportunity to those who are democratically in power, those who are not states-based, are not constructive and their ultimate objective is to flood this country. The rule of "the worse, the better for us" in a given situation and at this point is not appropriate. I'm an optimist at this point, and I'm counting on her to win her judgment, to win her trust. In this place, when there is no political or material benefit, there is no place for mistrust, as has been repeatedly expressed here, that some do not trust absolutely nothing. Systematic doubts at other points of the daily policy are justified and desired by the opposition. Here, I think, as we started yesterday, moving forward together to send a clear message to our citizens and to the European Union: we have decided that the situation in the country will be arranged to consolidate public finances so that we can achieve a better rating, lower interest, survival of this country. Otherwise, my colleagues and colleagues think that today's rule is not going forward in the past, but forward to the future with seriousness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Let us begin by trying to dispel these possibly slightly more disturbing thoughts of Mr Jerovška about our parliamentary group, which has at least so far shown unity. But it is true that the subject matter of the Constitution and the 148th article is a difficult subject, it came very quickly to our tables and it is quite clear that this also makes it clear that there are controversy and thinking about whether this is a fiscal rule that we want to begin to incorporate into our constitution today, good or not. Our arguments, with which we have pointed out that we have concerns, have been made. At this point, I, too, have somehow been kept from interpreting this romance about what I was imagining about the golden rule and the introduction into our constitution, and all that was argued today as a counter-argument to all of this. Of course, this romance would exist in me, probably also in which of my colleagues and colleagues would continue to have a clear starting point today that would indicate the consequences of this introduction of a golden fiscal rule into the constitution. As has been said, we don't have this analysis, so it's one big secret. But when it comes to opening this issue today and starting the process of amending the Constitution and Article 148, it seems to me that there will be plenty of opportunities and opportunities for us to do so when we also adopt the constitutional law, when we also adopt the sub-legal acts through which fiscal rules will be implemented, to see whether this is good for us or bad for us. Only to adopt the Constitution and the correction of Article 148 in order for some of our leading policies to hit our backs in Brussels and tell them that how good they are, as when we supported Greece and so on, is very little. Even if this gold rule brings about the fact that all further measures and the implementation of sub-laws, not least the rebalancing and the budget, will bring an even greater number of our citizens and citizens into poverty or social inequality, then it is certainly not good and it is not a good journey. All we want is for the country to make acts, to make a constitution, to make all the laws so that we can swim to the surface as soon as possible and get out of this crisis. I am also interested in all of this: the announcement of April 18th, the day the big sentence will take place in Slovenia. We are very concerned about the government's negotiations with trade union representatives and social partners, and I have the feeling that the most significant measure of non-governance in all these negotiations is, at least for the moment, this 18 April forecast has not been withdrawn. With this sentence, the state will be crippled, the life of the state will be weakened and there will be a lot of negative, including financial and moral damage. So I want to know if the government is seriously considering coming to terms with these negotiations in a way that would not be a sentence. After all, if it shows this ability to convince the social partners that there will be no need to strike, it seems to me that she would also be able to convince citizens and citizens that, with the anti-crisis measures she is planning, and also with the balance she is planning, she would convince citizens and citizens to give up the referendum, which we believe is also one of the elements with which to resolve it. So, the fiscal rule is an emergency for me, but as it is, we expect to see and feel it. We will certainly see and see all the consequences of this introduction into the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor. Get ready, Dr. Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u72	Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen! Where Mr Matjaž Zanoskar has finished, today's message could be a message from our Parliament or something. The National Assembly. The message that we call on the Slovenian government to do everything that will not be a sentence on 18 April and that the public sector will postpone the debate on this fiscal rule for as long as we can, and that this time will be found, for the first time, under what conditions workers in public administration are willing to accept the burden – and they are ready! This could be our message today! Not to talk about a fiscal rule and a change in the constitution that doesn't change when the country is going bad when we're going as bad as we are today. What message are we going to give us today? Today we are discussing a fiscal rule, we are discussing a constitutional change, instead of discussing government measures, what it will do, what Parliament will do, what measures we will take, how we will open up new jobs, how we will ensure people's survival. That's what we should be talking about today! The only thing we have left in this country, apart from people of course and possibly positive will, is the Constitution, something bright and holy; and we are changing it now, at a time when we will later change everything that needs to be changed. And when we change the constitution, it is announced in one month – what will then be said: Sorry, everyone was for the change of the constitution and the constitution to continue to be changed, on the basis of the Constitution, they adopted a budget rebalance, they cut everything that could be cut, so that I did not list everything that was foretold, to tighten the belt so that some would be pinched. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's not take this procedure today, let's move it! I'm talking about the problems that are true in our country. The real problems are how to survive: how to teach, how to train, how to train doctors, how to nurse, how to teach, how to work, how to retire, how to work. [[...]] This morning, I had an interview with a group of citizens — different compositions. They said that in Ljubljana I should say that under no circumstances do they give in: teachers because it is not about them, of course it is also about our children, about education, about the educational process, about what we have gained. The pensioners gave me a clear message and said that they did not agree to it either, and I am very interested in where today is the spokesman for pensioners, or DeSUS, who, in the previous term, has so vehemently represented the views of pensioners and is no longer hearing them. Therefore, it seems to me that there is at least this difference between Borut Pahor and me, that I am also in favour of amending the fiscal rule and the constitution so that we can change it. But not today, not this moment! The message isn't real! I am talking about what is a real problem; the real problem is survival, people cannot live, they have nothing to live from, they have no jobs. When I spoke to someone in Parliament today, he said, "Sorry, there's no vision." So, visions! By when, by when?Oh, my God! How long are we gonna tighten our belts? Jobs, how do we open jobs?Oh, my God! Has anyone said anything about Gorenje, where 2,000 jobs are being abolished? What did we say about the Soviets, what do we say about the Primor? Have we ever discussed this?Oh, my God! We didn't! We didn't discuss it! We're discussing what's wrong with this moment because we're giving a bad signal. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, don't take it today, don't give it a vote, let's move it. We're talking about the budget, we're talking about the balance. Let's take some time. The possibility is, I firmly believe that it is possible to pull our wagon from the point on which we are, and under no circumstances do I agree that constitutional changes are an equation for consolidating public finances. This equation, ladies and gentlemen, is not. The equation is just what we're going to do to make life better tomorrow. And I'm sorry, from the perspective of the President of the Government, the problem of Slovenia, workers, pensioners, students may appear to be very different from any of their problems. And their problem is big, and even at our level, this problem is very different. But when you're in the field, then you know it's an extremely difficult situation, and people are warning us. That is why I do not agree that the change in the Constitution would be equivalent to what will happen then – the tightening of the belt to disability.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u73	Thank you very much. He asked the mag for a replica. Branko Grimes, but I didn't recognize her. Have you identified yourself in [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u74	If you'll excuse me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u75	You weren't called mag. Branko Grimes. You have been in several debates before, I'm sorry, you have not really been appointed at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u76	Madam President, if you know legal practice, it is content, not name. However, the content referred exactly to my debate. A colleague claimed that we had not discussed jobs today. On the contrary! In my debate, my distinguished colleague, I stressed that the adoption of this rule and its entry into the Constitution meant an opportunity to improve credit ratings, cheaper money, and cheaper money for Slovenian entrepreneurship. So, job conservation, job creation and thus greater social security.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u77	Thank you very much, mag. Grimes. Otherwise, I must say that I did not recognize you at this point, and I apologize to you, in the economic field, but I did not recognize you in the debate of my colleague, Mr Meh, to speak of you. I really don't. Dr. Gregor Virant has the floor, Mr. Jerko Čehovin is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u78	Madam Vice-President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I am also President of the Constitutional Commission and held a debate yesterday. I must say, it's been a nice day and a nice evening. That's how I got it yesterday. First of all, the presidents of the parliamentary parties at the Villa Podróžnik discussed the subject in a very constructive manner, namely the golden fiscal rule. Then in the evening we had a nice constructive dialogue on this same subject on the Constitutional Commission and I had the feeling that we had built up some mutual trust. Even the coalition and those who support the golden fiscal rule unconditionally went against that part of the opposition, which was somewhat skeptical, whether he had doubts or some mistrust, and we finally agreed on solutions that were acceptable to all. It was a good feeling because of some very important, long-term topic that we reached consensus, achieved unity and, once again, build mutual trust. That seems to me to be a much less beautiful day today, and I'm surprised at how that came about. How can things change in one day so that one day politics shows such a high degree of unity, constructiveness, country-building, and the next day we are back on the old tracks, where you now accuse each other of who is and who is not for new jobs and who is trying for people and who is not trying for people. We all want to work for the people, Mr. Meh. We are all aware of the problems faced by the unemployed, the ones with low wages. Public sector employees as well. We are all looking for solutions to this country's problems and also to help these people. Yesterday's debate and decision seemed state-of-the-art. This is a lot of politics again today. Because I think the State is looking at things in the long run and when we talk about whether we are going to write in the constitution and then commit every government to keeping public finances balanced, to making an extremely important, long-term important decision for this country. This is actually a state decision. We have a visit tomorrow from the President of the National Council of the Swiss Confederation, Mr Hansjörg Walter. I mention it because at least sometimes we like to compare ourselves with Switzerland or to cultivate some hope and live in the belief that we will someday be another Switzerland. We have a largely, even justified, like Switzerland, for an idyllic Alpine state. However, the economic situation in the country is slightly less idyllic. Why am I talking about Switzerland? Because Switzerland was the first to introduce the golden fiscal rule into the constitution. First, it was one of their cantons, St. Gallen, that I think in 1931, as a response to fiscal problems caused by a major recession in 1929. However, Switzerland, as a confederation, wrote this in its constitution in 2001. So if we want to follow Switzerland and if we want to go this way, then this is the decision we have to make. Unfortunately, as we see Switzerland less and less as our goal, we are talking more and more about fears that we are becoming like a Mediterranean country where orphans are dancing. There's one more thing that seems very important to me. Today we're mixing up a debate on a lot of things. Today we have a debate on the golden fiscal rule. We are not discussing austerity measures, we are not discussing the balance of the budget. There we can have different opinions, different views. Negotiations are still under way. We don't know how it's gonna end, whether there's a deal or not, but that's another question. In fact, the golden fiscal rule is a principle, it is a principle of a balanced budget, it is a goal that can be achieved on several routes. It is possible to follow the path of those who advocate tax hikes or measures on the income side, along the path of those who advocate less public consumption or adjustment to public consumption, reality, abilities. You can come up with some intermediate balanced path. All these paths are possible, so I stress: today we are discussing constitutional change and the objective, not the ways to this end. If we adopt a constitutional change, we will certainly get a big plus as a credible, credible, serious country in the eyes of the European family, the European Community, in the eyes of international financial markets. After a long time of losing this credibility, we need to pour clean wine here and look the truth in the eye. Slovenia has lost much of its credibility. Much of the success story they spoke about throughout Europe has come to light. Today we are fighting so much for economic survival. If we want to restore this credibility, it's a great start. Not just a signal, as we often say, but proof that if we write down in the constitution, how we will act in public finances, we have proved to everyone that we are serious. This will certainly have effects, including very direct public finances: cheaper money, lower interest and, of course, less pressure on public finances. We'll all know that. It'll do us good. The question of whether the introduction of the Golden Fiscal Rule is impossible has been raised on several occasions, making the referendums more difficult. Alone and also in our party, the Civil Gazette, we have the same attitude to the referendum all the time. When I say it all the time, it's a relatively short time from the point of view of the client, but from my personal point of view, it's this multi-annual period. I have always advocated the introduction of a quorum; I have always advocated a reduction or reduction of the proposed rights so that only citizens can propose a referendum. However, with regard to content limitation, I have always been skeptical that either the constitution or the law could give us a taxive list of what should not go to the referendum, because this is virtually impossible because we are climbing because, by the way, we are missing something and these provisions cannot be written in an correct and consistent manner. I have always said that the referendum in Slovenia, of course, has one limit and this is called the Constitution. There can be no referendum on issues or laws if the outcome of the referendum could endanger constitutional values. Of course, it is clear that if we write in the constitution a golden fiscal rule, we have added this rule to the principle between constitutional values and the Constitutional Court thus gets some new constitutional value, some new anchor for the review of the referendum. However, I very much doubt that either hope on the one hand or fear on the other is justified, so that the gold fiscal rule can automatically mean, let's say that the government can bring any austerity measures into the National Assembly, so that most of them in Parliament can take them and then the Constitutional Court prevents the referendum. It is not likely because I repeat that the path to a balanced budget is different. The Constitutional Court can always say that if this path falls, this option, then another option will be taken into account. Those who have little or no interest in philosophy know that the expression golden rule is not primarily a public financial or economic expression, but gold rule is also known by the name categorical imperative. The term that comes from philosophy. Emmanuel Kant used it and it means some unconditional obligation, something you have to do, regardless of the circumstances. Of course, in philosophy it is an obligation from an ethical, moral point of view. The Golden Rule is something that I believe we must accept; something that we must do because it dictates an elementary, as we like to say, healthy farm of intelligence, which Dr. Jorge Petrovich has kindly taken on in his article. He describes the Swiss solutions from 1931 and 2001 and says that it's the principle of a healthy farmer who says you can't spend more than you can produce, and that when you have a good summer to put something in a bad time. I therefore hope that today this first stage of the procedure, the first decision to be taken by the National Assembly, will be taken. We accept it by a two-thirds majority of the Members present and Members present. We also need to take a step forward. Today's decision means to a large extent that we will also take a second step, because if we decide to start a procedure, if we adopt positions on the draft constitutional law, then we will immediately leave the word to the profession again. The expert group, which is competent, which is composed of experts proposed by all of the Members' groups, will have the guidance to continue the work, our orientation to continue the work to record such a 148th Article of the Constitution, which will be professionally watertight. This group can also be joined by experts from the Ministry of Finance, from Umar, macro-economicists, lawyers to really draw up a text that will be watertight, which will be legally corrected. And then this text will be the basis for our decision at the second stage of the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I was informed that Mr Happy Meh had asked for the replica. You're giving up. Okay. Then it's Mr. Jerko Chehovin's turn. Get ready, mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Of course, it is necessary to understand each other’s need to introduce a golden rule into the Constitution, but in Positive Slovenia we have written very clearly on what conditions we want them to be met before we discuss or support such a gold rule. In fact, we wanted, for the first time, a simulation of budgets for four years, and for the second time, we actually wanted a special one for 2015. We only got a balance last night. From this balance, we've actually seen that this is not what we want. The other thing that we missed very much is that this matter has not been debated either by the social partners who have not yet been involved in the creation of this proposal. We know that only Germany has this rule in the constitution in the EU, Slovenia is very fast, despite the fact that we have a deadline, as you well know, by 2015 or 2014. We believe that certain things should certainly be debated. Fiscal consolidation is not important to itself; it is not a goal; it is an economic start-up; the goal, as has already been said today, is to grow again. Only a gold rule won't make it possible. However, that these economic instruments must be enshrined in the Constitution is a constitutional dilemma at all. Does all economic categories really have to be written into the constitution? Do we not have any other options, such as constitutional law as an intermediate category? So a number of these dilemmas are why we have different opinions in our client. We're not sure that's the way to rush. It is precisely what my predecessor, Mr President of Parliament, has been told about the suspicion that this is a matter of preventing the referendum that this hastens us this suspicion. Therefore, we believe that it is really necessary to take some more time, and we should build more mutual trust in our policy. So, this mistrust between us, let's be honest, is also the result of today's reporting to us as firefighters yesterday's arsonists. It's just a fact. Those who have claimed until yesterday that we are in no hurry to see that structural reforms are not needed and so on. I will be happy to support the fiscal rule when structural reforms are ready, among them the most important pension reform, because in this package we actually see some guarantee that Slovenia will be on the right track. What we are doing today, however, is a more reflection of our servility, of our pleasures, as we say, to the financial markets, and also of the fact that we are about to receive a visit from Brussels, of how we Slovenians are good and aware of how bad we have been so far, and of how we are correcting ourselves. In short, this correctional exam is supposed to be solved in such a way that we immediately introduce this golden rule into the constitution. At the end of February, I attended a seminar in Brussels with Mr Shirtzl, and I must say that it was also very clear, and we know that this rule is not an obligation, but a recommendation. Of course, how a country acts depends on it, whether it wants to make matters more binding or not. I am afraid that this is also a conflict of some economic doctrines and that it also means the introduction of a rule into the Constitution and the confirmation that we are introducing neoliberal doctrine into the Constitution, into constitutional matter. Therefore, I will not personally support this, in particular because I think that with all these instruments, an attack on the public sector is being prepared, first to show it as incompetent, as someone has said, as parasites, and the tendency of privatisation, especially public institutions, especially those carrying money, because in fact we have nothing to take away from the economy, the economy is more or less privatised. That is why I think and also in our party we intend to take a little more time, time out, to prepare themselves, to make analyses and to make this golden rule more widely discussed, not only with experts but also with the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mag. Diane Jedhan. Get Mr. Janez Ribič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u82	Dear President, dear colleagues and friends, nice greetings to all! I must say that the Members present are, unfortunately, some are absent, some things we think similarly, and that is good. I think citizens too are happy to hear and see and to read tomorrow. I think we're in the same position that we can only spend as much as we create, we're all sure of that. We are also convinced that when you are well, you can save. For example, from 2004 to 2008, we could save a lot of money to spend it when it's as hard for us as it is for us now. However, we had already been without any stock in 2008 and had not had a single euro as a state in reserve. We probably also agree that the positive signals we send to foreign countries are useful to us, but sometimes they are probably just political marketing. But if we truly believe this, the real political signal could have been given to the foreign at the time of the Public Finance Act in January and February, but there was no desire for this signal, and now it is a necessity, and this signal must be sent immediately. But there's a lot of things we don't agree on, but there's nothing wrong with that. We have different perspectives on life. We don't hate the public sector! We really don't hate him. We are not saying that the public sector is too much. The public sector in Slovenia is less than in the average European country and we are a small country. We don't want to hurt our doctors! We do not want to harm our schoolchildren, our officials, our inspectors, because they are on average less than in the EU. We don't want them to go private! Since most citizens and citizens will suffer as a result, only a handful will enjoy it. Please don't support this. We know something else. When compared in the public sector and in the economy, we compare apples and pears because the education structure is different. If an inspector who protects us gets paid a thousand hundred euros net today, don't say that inspector has a reserve. Because if that's what you're saying, then you're actually taking us on the path of Greece. You'll take away what they don't have, you'll scare them further, and then people won't be able to buy anymore, so no more spending. Then we are, in fact, like a country in crisis. You're doing it, and we wouldn't want to do it. Nor would we do what you want to do with the balance – move subsidies to farmers who urgently need them. We wouldn't have thought of something like that. But they'd do something else for me. When the crisis is, let those who are richer help more. It is therefore very reasonable to raise the value added tax to the upper level, which is so low. And if we raise it by just 2 percentage points, we get 200 million to a quarter of a billion, right now. But we wouldn't lift the bottom, because that's food, we'd leave it alone. As far as income class is concerned, they'd fix my Bajuk's mistake. We'd introduce an additional income class, not at the 100,000 limit, because it's a demagogy, we'd put it at the 50 or 60 grand limit and get an extra million. In particular, what we differ from, although we all know basically, is that we do not all publicly acknowledge – we have a problem with referendum legislation. This needs to be said openly and clearly. Do not hide behind the fiscal rule, for it is then a double act that is obvious to the politicians. Let us be clear: "We have a problem with referendum legislation, so we will change it." In future Members and the Council of State will no longer have the right to sign a referendum. We'll set up a quorum. And one more thing. Those who sign the referendum and fail with the referendum will pay part of the costs of 4 million, which you are so keen to do to this country. We understand that the Constitution is a fundamental charter in this country. With it, we do not want to solve operational problems that can be solved in a different way. Finally, allow me to welcome also Members of Parliament and Members of Positive Slovenia. Today you and our president have mentioned several times, even praised us. I have to compliment you, too. Today, in fact, you speak as the opposition must speak. You didn't let us down. That's how the opposition forms. Not with festivals and various meetings in Ljubljana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Fishich. Get Ivan Grill ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u84	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Slovenians usually come together when the water's running down our throats. A moment like this has come now. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we strongly hope that today we will take a step towards a desire for a long-term balance of public finances and consequently to ensure the financial stability of the country. The time has come when we must stop thinking that someone else will do something for us in order to be saved by the inflatable individuals in union groups. Nor should we think in any way about leaving this to the EU's policy, for this would be the beginning of our end. So it's time for us to start taking as much as we can produce and produce, create, and nothing more. I don't know, and I don't understand why we should be afraid to get into the constitution. Why should anyone take such tactics or think that the opposite will help this country. But I would like more tolerance for those who think differently in the coalition ranks than in the opposition. There is no time to show what someone has ever done wrong, but let us all try to overcome the contradictions as we did in the Slovenian People's Party, when we supported the pension reform, certainly failed. This was not the will of many, but we wanted good, good for this country, as well as today when I support the proposal for a decision to initiate a procedure to change the constitution. This is really a golden rule that we should already have written down and respect, and we wouldn't be here where we are, in a hopeless situation, but we would still be politicizing, screwing around. Let us stop if we truly want the good of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill. Get ready, Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! Every day that Slovenia loses such a state and, of course, loses mainly those ratings, this brings us millions of losses. If we now look back on how many times we have lost this credit rating in the last six months of the various international institutions, we would probably also be able to calculate how much that money we're borrowing has irritated us. Here is a large part of the money that has already been reinforced here by numbers, which flows instead of preserving the social state and rights in Slovenia – €700 million per year, next year will be even more – to institutions that lend money to Slovenia. According to the information I have, the minister will even be able to confirm this, and Slovenia is also facing major difficulties when it tries to sell its bonds. There is no interest in purchasing bonds and, of course, brings fresh money into Slovenia, which we urgently need. If once a country is in a situation where it's hard to deal with, I think they're glowing all the lights red. There's no time to wait. They've waited too long. I don't want to point a finger at individuals here. I have two mandates in the National Assembly, and there is a lot of people here that there may also be a part of the blame that we are in such a situation, that we can be attributed to an individual, but I do not want to need or have no time. Let's get together! Look at how positive it was in public when we were the intervention law, almost, I can say, without any major differences adopted, and that intervention law was also unpleasant for people who were, of course, affected. I am sure that people will also understand those austerity measures that we will have to take if we do not try to set them on fire here and if we do not try them with some groundless debate or in search of political prestige, it will be bad. After all, everyone, every citizen and citizen in Slovenia, will have to work or rights, or even for wages, because no one else will be able to save the country. We're not talking today about how we're gonna share anything. We have nothing to share, that's the problem. I would join all those debaters who say we have to give them more, more, more. I'd be up for it right now, but tell me where we're gonna take this. What we had worked. I'm sorry. And also this rule today, which some of you are trying to paralyze and ascribe to it some other effects or other purposes. It's not like that. 10 years ago, or maybe 15 years ago, if they had this in the constitution, they wouldn't be in the same condition as they are today. Germany was mentioned to have this in writing. And I believe that not only was this record the key reason why Germany was recovering so quickly. Two days ago, I received a phone call from our citizen, who spent a part of his active time in Germany, telling me that pensions were rising there. In Germany, pensions are rising during this period. Employment – as it grows in Germany. Here Slovenia can be compared to Germany, let's look at the German consulate, where dozens of people are looking for work permits and most of them. It means they're hiring people in Germany. We do have species in employment institutions when people are looking for support when they lose their jobs. And here's the essential difference. And this difference will increase if we do not take the first step, and this is today's step if we have sufficient wisdom and consensus to support the continuation of this process. It's a suggestion to put the matter on hold for a while. Why? Indeed, this time, which, as of today, if given sufficient support, can be extended in any way, especially if these discussions are very professionally justified here, but in this way, I am sure, to find such a record for the constitution, which will prevent all governments from being unduly indebted in the future. And this is not the project of this government, this coalition, this is a project that was somehow supported by all the parties in Parliament before this government was named. Here was a very large consensus to detect months ago. Yesterday, too, there was a way to understand a lot of support. Why turn this thing upside down today? There's no need. And then there's the next one. There are three and a half years left before the elections, unless we can re-initiate a situation until the early elections. Let us now together seek solutions, not only in amending this Article of the Constitution, but also in other laws that are necessary. Let us show people by our examples, by our understanding of these solutions, some support, and also unity, and in two or three years we will be able to deal with those things that are as important as each election. There's no need today. We have other priorities. I will be happy to support this decision so that the continuation of this procedure can begin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor, Mr Franz Pukšič is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u88	Your Honor! Yesterday, and I personally hope that today too, I hope you will show a new path to the development of our country. By introducing this so-called golden fiscal rule, we will set some new guidelines to stop this debt that went beyond all reasonable limits. I believe that the introduction of a fiscal rule into the Constitution is necessary because Slovenia has recently been in over-indebted and beyond its capacity. And based on this, interest rates are rising very quickly. At this point, their height threatens the stability of public finances or the ability of Slovenia to pay interest. Such a debt policy must be completed as soon as possible. We are aware that the planned rescue measures to reduce indebtedness in the short term will affect many people, but this is a mild measure compared to those that would later catch up with us if we continued at this pace of indebtedness. Because if we do not adopt a rule and limit the country's indebtedness, the state will have to borrow money at higher rates or no one will want to borrow money at all. This can lead to a similar scenario as they know in Greece and, as a result, to the fact that one day the state will simply not be able to pay wages, for example, and will not be able to pay pensions. But I hope that if we follow some European guidelines, this will not happen. Personally, I believe that debt within some reasonable limits is even good and necessary, especially in the area of our family budget, in the economy, in the municipalities or in the country. I think it only makes sense for specific purposes, which result in higher, better, and, well, I'll say, more comprehensible output. For example, if companies are in charge of new investments, for the expansion of their activities, for new products, if municipalities and countries are in charge of investments and, of course, for emergency measures. However, there is no positive exit from the current mode of indebtedness except in part in the area of social affairs. Record unemployment and negative GDP absolutely confirm this, and we will pay the bill for social debt as soon as possible. The country must be an example to its citizens in this area. I think the account in this case is quite simple. The sooner you return and the less you have to return, the easier it will be and the more comfortable it will be. Each company must also follow the principle in each project that income is at least equal to expenditure, if not greater, which again does some new added value. That something urgent needs to be done — and I think that if we write it down in the constitution and follow it — proves today’s report of Umar. Allow me to quote, "in view of the additional indebtedness of the State of Umar, it points out that the required profitability is still around 5% high, and in order to reduce this, it is necessary to reduce the budget deficit and convince foreign investors of the sustainability of Slovenian public finances". So, Your Honor, financial policy has been flawed in recent years. I therefore welcome yesterday's agreement to the President of Parliament's parties and then the almost unanimous adoption of a decision by the Constitutional Commission, which convinces that changes are necessary. And changes are urgent soon. That is why I also hope and call on sober heads to decide on a further fate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. Get ready, mag. Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! So that citizens and citizens who may accompany this meeting do not today understand that in the National Assembly we are adopting a fiscal rule or the start of a constitutional change procedure, and I will not then repeat myself in order to introduce this fiscal rule due to public sector workers and workers and workers in the real sector. Neither is true. Why do we have to do this? We must do this because of the irresponsibility of the political elites of the last, unfortunately, 20 years or 21 years of our country. Although it was not the same irresponsibility all the time, however, very few of those bright moments when in politics we could be responsible enough when we had enough conscience, ethics and morality. Many have come to riches in an inappropriate way or at least ethically not if they were not already in conflict with the legal order. Indeed, it is noted that, of course, a number of marriages were so made that they actually benefited individuals. And what happened next? Since there has been a lack of conscience, ethics and morality in politics, the rule on a balanced budget has not been respected since its adoption in 1999, as the predecessor Mrs Bratušek said today. So if we did, we wouldn't need it today. Unfortunately, something else was going on. The crisis actually started in 2009. And in 2009 it was time, responsible, ethically-moral and otherwise we would have to do everything in order to take certain measures. If we did, we would be on the other side today, so on the safe side, like Germany, the United States of America and so on, where economic growth is, at least in America, as we can read recently, the lowest rate of unemployment. None of this has happened to us. What happened to us? It's all moved for three good years. We had almost another year of political crisis in between, from those referendum weeks to the early conclusion of one term, the early elections and so on. However, we have spent €6.5 billion during this time simply to maintain the seemingly social peace. But, of course, that's the end of it. The property we have at home, or the source, whatever it is, you get a loan, some credit, but at some point it ends, or when you come back to the bank for that loan, they ask you for health. Listen, if you have so much revenue and you're already giving half of it to pay off loans, loans and so on, it's impossible to get a new loan, it's impossible to get some new values. First fix and pay back what you borrowed, only then you can get a new loan, the next loan. Today we are unable to say in this country that in 2012 we will spend as much in the public sector as we will create. We're not in this state! We're able to go back to Europe, we say, "Good afternoon, please for one billion poufs." But, of course, now, with this rule, with the start of the constitutional change process – unfortunately, we have to do this – Europe will, hopefully, in May when they come to Slovenia and say, "Well, yes, but this billion will cost you so much and so." So I hope that not much less or substantially less than if we don't write this fiscal rule into the constitution. Of course, if we had this fiscal rule written down a long time ago, we would not need to talk about it today, not about the debt we are in. What has happened has been catastrophic, too, and this is what we all find, both those who have previously been in the coalition and are now in opposition, as have those who have been before in the opposition and now in the coalition, and we have, in fact, warned of this all along. The real sector, workers and workers in the real sector were paying very quickly, as soon as the crisis began. The worst of all, of course, those who lost their jobs, over 60,000, Circus 80,000 additionally those who were in SCT, Vegrad, CP and so on who went back to the countries they came from. And to keep the public sector at this level of spending and costs, it was only possible to borrow credits. And I hope that at least today we all know that there is no going back. Yeah, it's just not there. Credits will have to be paid, no matter who borrowed them or who hired them. We'll all have to pay for this together in this country! But it seems very unfair to me now that they are raising the dust that has so far been under this cloak of borrowing credits as much as they have gone through without consequences. But it's not their fault, they're not, so the public sector isn't to blame. It's the wrong policy that she's driven in this direction and she's flickering her shoulders, "Don't worry, it'll be somehow." I agree with all those who say - because today we are not talking about the rebalancing because we are not talking about the budget, because we are only talking about this fiscal rule that will be written - that you can spend as much as you have, come to the diner, open your wallet, and if you have 15 euros you will look at the menu, what you can take for 15 euros, but if you have 5 euros, you will probably have some more coffee and you will just go. In short, the time comes, colleagues and colleagues, when they are always and everywhere – in life is so, at home, in society, in the company and even in the country – every lunch is paid, one way or another. And today there are other options than that we will have this question that we borrowed and that we will still need by 2015, because it is only then that we will come to a flat budget so that we will pay this question with as little interest as possible, because it is easy and nothing else. If there is a message today and if there should be any message from this session of the National Assembly to citizens and citizens in particular to the great union leaders, because at the end of the day they should also tell theirs, who are paying them, what their salaries are, I have never seen the public salaries of the trade unions, leaders and all their assets that they have. We all did this, and these gentlemen have never, I remember only when they had some problems in Gorenje, that they had struck, that Semolič was almost carried away at the time, and probably no harm would have been done, at least in these unions, not so with others. So that policy today, I believe that yesterday it has also been agreed that we will support today with these 60 votes or with a two-thirds majority continuation of this process, while at the same time giving a message: Stop the horses by your fellow trade unionists. Stop them! Today we are only adopting this fiscal rule, which will continue only after the budget's adopted rebalancing and after what the Government is preparing, and I know that it will also come with some suggestions on how to start the economy. Have you forgotten, even now that the Minister of Economics has arrived, I will ask him how he is with the operational programmes. Do you remember, for three years I have been confused about why nothing is done in this area or why European funds are not being used, two and a half billion euros are waiting for us in Brussels for the programmes that we will pull off if we do. And if we don't accept this fiscal rule, colleagues, we can block it, and then it will be in the fall, I'm almost sure that such a coalition as today will no longer be able to be early elections, and then Brussels will tell us if you still want to have the euro, 25% of the salary down, half the pension, and I don't know what else can happen to us. No, I don't mean to intimidate you, but I want to point out the real problem. And it's just a sentence. You know, simply changing VAT isn't so easy and so uniform. It's true that with all this effort, you're going to have to hit everyone. What are the side effects? This does not mean that 250 million will suddenly fly in, but much less, also because of the side effects it would have. This government is doing its best without raising VAT, but taking all the other steps and making them as painless as possible. That's why it's just worth it, as my colleague Rybič said we're not fighting in this case, but together we're pulling the wagon, my country forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojan Starman. Get ready, Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd have corrected myself first if I wasn't a master, but the lady is here with me, instead of me. When I looked at the schedule of this session, and I saw 7 hours and 15 minutes, I said, "Are we serious?" Then I checked out quickly and said that I would shorten my time and your time of discussion. Then I can see that we have been discussing the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend Article 168 for almost five hours. I can't believe there's one decision like that that doesn't mean anything yet, that it's going to be written down. Unfortunately, as my colleague said before me, the fact that we have decided to initiate a procedure to bring this into the constitution will not mean much progress in lower interest rates and better ratings. Only when we actually write it, however we write it down. This debate, too, is about somehow forcing everyone in the process of preparing these austerity measures not to trigger some referendums and so on. I don't think that's true. There's no record of when we're going to make these constitutional changes. We can start in 20 years, but we have to start them if we ever want to make them. And the right thing to do is to write it down, because it means that at least here in the National Assembly we realize that we have to do something about our poor finances. Once again, 7 billion 2009, 15 billion in debt, 250 million four years ago, 700 million in interest today. That means there's less money for all the other stuff. And in fact, if we have not come after all these debates, after all these discussions, after all these monitoring by Greece, to realize that we need to tackle some cuts and that we need to balance our balance sheets. If we have not understood this and that we have such a problem with whether or not we start some procedures here, we really need some humility somewhere. Because I think that's true, whatever we're all saying, we'll balance, we'll settle, we'll make, wherever anyone mentions one change, one small wage reduction, if one small right is deleted, immediately fire in the roof. Everyone with all the canons, all the strikes, all the stuff. Yes, we strike against ourselves because we push ourselves into even greater misery than we are. I think it's better that you give up 5% of your salary today than that, for example, in December, you won't get anything because there's simply no money. Then it will be a disaster. I think it's really sad that we've been talking about starting something for so long. I think we should confirm that right away. Nor did I expect a debate to be held today on a proposal for a rebalancing that is here on the table. You could have said a lot about this, but this is not a debate. We will start this debate, I hope, soon, and some other measures. In fact, I do not see any reason to delay this reception or to reject this amendment. It's gonna take a lot more. It will take much more of our will to make this turn in our heads and, of course, also in practice, because this is the only way we will ensure that the Slovenians continue to live properly at least. Nothing helps if we have a nice time today, but knowing that tomorrow's disaster will come if we don't act. We can't stall. We're making these changes too late. We're doing these things too slowly. And every day we run out of so much and so much money. We are not working too hard to increase the new value in our economy. I would therefore really suggest that we come to terms and focus on closing this debate as quickly as possible and adopting this rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Starman. Here you are, Mr. Mirko Brulc, and prepare yourself, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u94	Good-bye! There's no reason I wouldn't be one nice night tonight and then we'd all have a nice time and we'd love to, but today this session was on the nose. And that's my problem. Yesterday I received a proposal for a budget rebalancing, and I see that the position, ruled by the macolo, strikes by union rights. If you know what a macola is - that heavy hammer. This gives rise to a lack of confidence that I will not repeat the words of my colleague Jakič, precisely that, mistrust, fear, because we already have a rule in the law in writing that there must be a harmonised revenue and expenditure component of the budget. Yet you are now interfering with the diet of children, in kindergartens, maternity leave and so on, and you are actually proving that this government hates the population of this country. That's it. You're taking the poorest pensioner. They will only be able to study young people who are at home in Ljubljana, Maribor and Celje, and I do not know where yet. From the countryside he will no longer be able to drive to Ljubljana. These are not small interventions, as Mr Starman has just said. These are very serious interventions! Mr Tanko discussed and listed the reasons for the situation in the introduction. And he didn't mention a referendum on pension law. He did not mention the referendum on small work – Where has the organiser of this referendum and the throwing of stones into parliament already run? Which client?Oh, my God! Not to mention the gray economy and so on. But without these reform measures there is no fiscal rule and there is no solution, you need to know that. They say he's afraid that the golden rule would prevent referendums. That's not true. The Constitutional Court has set up a municipality outside this House. Let us recall how the Constitutional Court dealt with the proposal for a referendum on family law. What was it that they said, "Yeah, this marriage, this referendum is acceptable"? While Europe recommends a golden rule, the practice across Europe is different. Let's take a look at this. I think it's a feeling that this government needs a golden rule to make it easier to rule, to achieve its goals with fear and pressure on citizens. Where is your pre-election program, which has already been mentioned today? I'm not gonna do it again. You were talking about social dialogue. It's funny the unions say he's not here. Youth employment – zero. Economic competitiveness – nothing. Promoting public investment – nothing. That's not what we're talking about. In fact, these days, 89 soldiers are leaving for Afghanistan when everyone else is withdrawing from Afghanistan. How much money is there to solve the possible problem of eating children in schools, primary and secondary schools? That's all the reason I don't actually trust you. Take your time, prepare the necessary legislation to live up to the balance, to see where the dog is praying, and then we will believe if you have fair intentions. That is why I propose that, although we are at the end of the debate today, we vote in a few days when we will especially arm ourselves with the required documents. Now for the end, that's all. For all the party presidents: Parliament is not here in Villa cornea, Podružnik or anything else. This is Parliament, and this is where we're talking! Not if the party presidents have a nice time, I don't care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor, Mr Janko Weber is not here.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. If I see this schedule correctly, we have reached the end of the debate. We all know what it means in every country of the Constitution, it's the highest act, it gathers all the rules for all the key fundamental areas, for the functioning of the rule of law, for the social state, for the regulation of human rights. I don't think there should be any problem if we also wrote down one rule among the other golden rules that also apply to the state's fiscal operations. Those of us who support such a solution, which we support in writing into the Constitution, support this because we want to make a step towards order in this area, too, in order to provide a very good basis for the drafting of all the implementing legislation that will monitor the implementation of this constitutional provision. The one who opposes is simply a proponent of the existing confusion situation, when any policy can afford practically anything in this area, it is said that by its own adaptation rules, that you are a deficit in your own design, that you are a public debt and that you owe the country for 20 years or more. I think it is fair for us, who are in the National Assembly, to assume this responsibility at the beginning of this mandate, to try to form a solution, together with an expert group, which will lay a solid foundation for the implementation of this provision and also for the establishment of order in the field of finance. I must say that I was very pleased when I listened to the discussions of the three presidents of the parliamentary parties who spoke here today. It is the President of the Social Democrats, it is the President of the Civil Gazette, it is the President of Positive Slovenia. All three expressed their weekly support for the continuation of the procedure for the incorporation of this provision into the Constitution. All three of them. None of the presidents of these three parties - and they represent, if I say so, a parliamentary majority - have expressed any serious reservation that this first step would not be accepted, confirmed, and that the continuation of the procedure would begin, continue, and thus give the opportunity to the expert group composed of top economists and top lawyers to attempt, in accordance with their views, to form this constitutional solution in Article 148. This inspired me with great optimism that this step will be taken today. Later, several debates after the parliamentary groups, which were a statement, at least the statements made by the two party presidents, were very relativising, which was actually strange. At this meeting, which he mentions, only the presidents of the parliamentary parties were present at the Podoržnik villa, we were also the leaders of all the parliamentary groups of these parliamentary parties, there were seven of us, and none of the leaders of the parliamentary groups expressed any reservations that this process would continue, not Mr Weber, not Mr Möderndorfer and none of us are the leaders of the coalition groups. We also see the public records after yesterday's meeting, the media release, we are monitoring the media announcements of today's statements, and there should be no problem for this first step ahead of us. Some conditions have been expressed that this second phase is, therefore, the final treatment and placement of Article 148, linked to certain additional requirements of the President of Positive Slovenia, Mr Zoran Jankovic. That was expressed. The Minister of Finance also said that he would prepare this in due time, certainly before the decision was taken both at the Constitutional Commission and at the National Assembly. In fact, it was sufficient that a full agreement was reached at that meeting with regard to the continuation of the consideration of this point. I think it's important to decide slowly whether what we're saying is the same as what we're doing. It is also necessary to establish slowly whether the acts are identical to declarations. I think that at a meeting, however you relativize it, when the presidents of the parliamentary parties and the leaders of their parliamentary groups meet, there is a mandate for those who have come to this conversation to have some confidence in those behind these people. I think that by predicting a different vote or prolonging it into a near or distant future, trust in these presidents is actually very damaged and conceived. I am of the opinion that the postponement of today's decision next week or next week will bring nothing, absolutely nothing. I am of the opinion that today we must make a decision on whether we are still worth the effort with this solution, and it is still worth trusting in the expert group that experienced such full support yesterday at the Constitutional Commission meeting, whether it is no longer worth it. That's the question. Either we give these people that we have chosen specifically a mandate to continue with the drafting of this text, or we simply close it to them. Whether by giving this group a mandate, we are so strong that we hope to put the solution they propose into the constitution and thus place this fiscal rule among the other golden rules enshrined in our constitution. From the first to the last article, there are rules of gold. They are the basis for all other decisions, the basis for decisions of the Constitutional Court and so on, these are the rules. I do not think there is any rational reason why we should take advantage of this possibility now in this mandate and only now, because the next term will have to be followed, and we will not take advantage of it. Those who are counting on being blocked or not accepted, without supporting the inclusion of this solution in the Constitution, to achieve something, to save or to change the balance or other acts, are seriously mistaken. The procedure for adopting the budget balance, the procedure for adopting the intervention legislation, does not depend on the entry of this into the constitution, but depends on the conduct of any government, including this and future, in drawing up a budget balance or budgets for the future. And by putting this in place, they would also be forced in some way into the process of improving the state’s public financial position — each government would have this task — and in the preparation of rationalisations in public administration as well. Otherwise, this deficit and consequently accumulated in public debt can be done however we want and we can also come to 60, 80 or 100 % of GDP or even more, as other countries have come. That's what we decide every time we let go of this opportunity. If we let this opportunity go today, the problem of any future government will be greater. The victims will be bigger. There will certainly be more victims, because more will have to be cut than we should have done in order to come to some limit of the financial rules in force in the European Union. We knew that, for various reasons, it had not been possible in the previous mandate, but that the structure of the coalition did not allow this to be carried out in any other way. This time, in this coalition, there is enough support for the coalition to act unanimously on this project. This is not enough, however, to take this decision requires the participation of the opposition. And the opposition in this process assumes not only relatively less responsibility by number of votes, but significantly less. Because everything else that follows the implementation of this rule will, if this coalition endures, bear the full burden of this coalition. The opposition will choose what it will support and what it will not support, what it will sharpen and what it will make easier, and thus can only cause additional difficulties to the coalition in some way in using or implementing these matters. I assess that, after these mandates, the knowledge that we must take this area seriously, as other countries have done. Some have previously reached a consensus that there is also a need to regulate this area, which concerns the level of the deficit and also the level of the public debt. Some later, some late. I think, however, if we know what our task and our responsibility are, as we hear many times, then it would probably make sense that this proposal today, in the first and second conclusions in the first and second chapters, which we have today on the agenda, will also be supported. This also gives the expert group an opportunity. Before I conclude, however, perhaps I would only ask a question to some of the parliamentary groups. I got here a record of Milan Utroše, Secretary of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, from 9. 4. which states in the text "that, therefore, with the unannounced non-support of the Members of the Positive Slovenia, it will be crucial how the Members of the Social Democrats will define themselves, because the votes of the ruling coalition are not enough to change the constitution. 60 votes or more are required." And I wonder if you're familiar with this letter? Is this letter perhaps the basis for any discussion we have been accompanying here? Does that hold? We are now some day after, two days ago, this has been written, but I wonder whether this is the basis for any decision on this issue or whether the statements made by the presidents of the parties and also by some of the leaders of the parliamentary groups reached in the agreement at the Villa Podróžnik, as well as the views expressed by the presidents of some parliamentary parties. I think it would be good to clear this up before the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The Minister of State, Dr. Šuštersič, also took the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. What I'd like to explain at the end is two things. One is whether you decide whether or not to continue to adopt a fiscal rule in the constitution, whether Slovenia will have this principle of public finances balance in the constitution as a principle equivalent to the other fundamental principles governing our lives, rather than how we will achieve this principle in the coming years. This decision to write such an article into the Constitution does not automatically entail any decision on whether to reduce expenditure or increase income or anything like that. Let me try to tell you, as an economist, about the possible effects of reducing the public financial deficit in the coming years – which I think we all agree is necessary – on economic growth. There's been a lot of debate about that. This debate is also important from the point of view of the time-limit provided for by this constitutional Article or this amendment to the Constitution for its implementation. First of all, I would like to say that regardless of how we are reducing the deficit, whether we are doing this by reducing expenditure for certain purposes or by increasing taxes on certain benefits, on certain incomes, because we are always taxing some income at the end stage, this is a short-term reduction in consumption and means a short-term impact on economic growth. I have here a few sentences from the Office of Macroeconomic Analysis, which is an independent body when it forms its assessments. This independence has been recognized by him for many years beyond our borders. As a result, I have previously discussed fiscal institutions, it has always been accepted at European level that the evaluations based on Slovenian budgets are prepared by an office formally constituted by the Government, since it has always been assessed that it is sufficiently professional and sufficiently independent in these forecasts and assessments. When they made their last forecast, they took into account the possible effects of the measures, they were even more basic in the form we planned and what their impact on economic growth might be. These statements are worded as follows: the medium-term economic scenario of the spring forecast shows that, at the time of the consolidation of the public finances balance and the reduction of the deficit below the 3% limit, that is, in 2012 and 2013, this year and next year, economic growth is modest. We know these predictions. This year's 0.9 minus, next year's plus 1.2%, which is not that modest compared to some past years, would be my comment. However, in the coming years, under the assumption of successful fiscal consolidation and the maintenance of deficits in the frameworks outlined, the conditions for financing the State and the private sector will be relatively improved. The positive signals from the measures taken would thus allow a gradual increase in economic activity in the coming year, which would be accelerated in 2014. However, the alternative scenario in the case of an unsettled consolidation of public finances shows that economic activity would stagnate this year, perhaps not be such a downturn, and in the coming years it has begun to fall again. The absence of measures to reduce the country's deficit below 3% of GDP would lead to a deterioration in the financing conditions of the private sector as well, which would constitute a serious limitation on the acquisition of financial resources, which would have a strong impact on business and on overall economic activity in all the following years. This is what we are talking about when we talk about, by balancing public finances, which is still gradual, of course, we will not go from 6.5 to nothing in one year, but we propose that we go to 3% in one year and then, or slightly more than 3% if we look at total public finances. In short, we are thinking about what I have now read from these forecasts and assessments when we are talking about that this balance of public finances is essential if we are to open up a space for economic development in Slovenia. Economic development is, of course, the basis for jobs. We simply can no longer buy time, nor will anyone be willing to lend us money to do so. The second thing I would like to say about the end may not be the custom for financial ministers to talk about such things, but: The budget is also a very great temptation. As to what kind of temptation the budget is, in the past, you can find examples of decisions made by governments and adopted by national assemblies in this country in various compositions. Some of these trials that have been fulfilled have been discussed or discussed today, but some of them have not, and we could not. The list is very long. And very rarely are the moments when those who have in hand, for at least four years or some mandate given to them by the people who are the last sovereign in us as in all democracies, are prepared to take some measure by which they restrict their power. In this case, the National Assembly, by giving a green light to the continuation of this constitutional change procedure, would give the green light to the point that we will come to a point when we make an extremely mature decision or will take it that most of those who now have the mandate of people to manage this country are willing to give up one of their very important temptations, the temptation to use public finances, could also say abuse, in a way that is short- and long-term harmful, which means imbalance, which means a path towards an ever-increasing indebtedness of the country. When that is the time, and these moments are rare — we all know what temptation means in various areas — when we come to a point where power may be able to limit itself in an area is precious, and it would be a shame if we lost that moment today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u99	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The panellists are no longer available, so we can move on to the decision-making process. There are no further applications for discussion. I'll read you the decision I'm going to put to the vote. Mr Möderndorfer, Vice-President Romana Tomc has informed me that you had a procedural proposal, and I would ask you to tell him if this is still true. Please, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u100	On the basis of Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose a procedural decision to decide on the suspension of this meeting and on the decision-making of not one of the following meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I will put this decision to the vote. Does anyone want to discuss this on behalf of the Group of Members? Please, Mr Tanko, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I propose a 15-minute recess before deciding on this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u103	Good. I'm adjourning the session in 15 minutes. We'll pick it up at 7:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u104	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're continuing our adjourned session. We continue to consider the first and only item of the agenda. We suspended the session for 15 minutes for consultation at the SDS Group. Mr Tanko has the floor to explain the results of this council.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u105	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Group of Members, we have decided not to support this procedural proposal to postpone or decide on this item to one of the next meetings. We are of the opinion that today and in the days before, more than enough reasons have been said to give anyone in this Chamber sufficient grounds for his decision. By delaying this decision on this constitutional change, we do not actually gain anything. We're just prolonging the agony, just mixing the fog for a long time. That is why we are in the position that it is best to make a decision today and to conclude this point today, or to continue with it on the Constitutional Commission. It is up to those who will vote to decide with your vote what will be the next procedure. We will vote for the continuation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Before deciding on a procedural proposal, I ask if anyone wants to discuss this procedural proposal on behalf of the Group of Members. I'm going to open an application for discussion. Please register the person you wish to discuss on behalf of the Group of Members. We will discuss Mr Möderndorfer's procedural proposal. First, Mr Matthew Tonin on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u107	Mr Möderndorfer's proposal is that today we do not start a procedure to change the constitution. I don't think that's the right move. For this reason, we decided in the Group of Members that we would not support the proposal of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia and that we would vote for the procedure to begin and to take into account the views of the Commission of Experts. We don't see anything wrong with that. For the details we have discussed today, there will be an opportunity to arrange them in more detail.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u108	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u109	Thank you for your word. Even in the Slovenian People's Party of this proposal, we will not simply support this because we do not see any reason why we would not vote today on this beginning of the constitutional change process. Not least because we broke up with some optimism on the Constitutional Commission yesterday. When we were watching the media tonight, on the echoes, when I just got home, the reporter started off very optimistic. Today, however, politicians have found some common language on the Constitutional Commission. And almost unanimously supported the position of the profession, which gave the green light to initiate the procedure for amending the Constitution. I am also convinced at this point that journalists will report similarly today. By voting for the opening of the procedure today and not in one week or 14 days from now, we will give our confidence to the expert group that gave the green light yesterday for the initiation of the procedure, and also to all those members of the Constitutional Commission who voted in favour of the opening of the procedure yesterday. We all know that there is another step ahead. That's the first step. The second step, which will be equally difficult and demanding, may be even harder, but we trust this expert group, which has opened the green light at the moment, that it will also prepare such content so that we can actually achieve the desired objective of this constitutional change, this is a balance of public finances. Once again, we believe in the Slovenian People's Party that we must vote on this process today because the time has come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u110	Thank you. We are moving on to a decision on the procedural decision proposed by Mr Möderndorfer, which is a procedural decision to postpone the decision on the proposal for a decision to initiate the procedure for amending the Constitution to one of the following meetings. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 50. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Mr. Möderndorfer, a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u111	Thank you very much. In accordance with Article 73, given that we are moving to a decision on this matter, I would ask for 45 minutes of breaks so that the Group of Members can consult on the decision-making process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u112	Thanks for the suggestion. I would just like to tell you that we have already taken advantage of 15 minutes of interruptions in parliamentary groups, we have 45 minutes in one agenda item, so we have 30 minutes left. I'm adjourning the session in 30 minutes. We'll resume at 20.08.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u113	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue the adjourned session and the adjournment of the agenda. I give my word to Mr Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u114	Dear colleagues and colleagues! After consultation in the Group of Members and in view of the progress of today's debate, it is undeniable that there are a number of open issues and doubts. For this reason, we have decided that no one will vote against the start of constitutional changes in Positive Slovenia, which means that we will follow very closely further what will happen, what will be the draft constitutional law, which will also make it very clear that we will decide on constitutional changes when the time is right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u115	Thank you. Before we vote, I'm going to ask you to apply for an explanation of vote. I'd like to read what we're going to vote on. We will vote on the proposal for the following decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts the Government proposal of 16. 3. 2012 to initiate the procedure for amending Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law. The Constitutional Commission has proposed to the National Assembly that the proposed decision be adopted. You must also know that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 168(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a decision will be taken if two thirds of the Members present vote for it; of course, presence means a vote in favour, "against" or the "quorum". And I would specifically warn you of the following. If the proposed decision is not adopted, then, after the second paragraph of Article 177 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we shall conclude the procedure on this proposal and such a proposal cannot be placed on the agenda of the meeting of the National Assembly in this mandate. Nor is it possible to deal with it on the Constitutional Commission. I think you should know that before making your decision, or I should warn you again. I would now like to ask you to apply for explanations of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. [[No one checked in.]] Now I'm asking you, does anyone want to explain their voice in their own name? It's an interest. I would like to draw your attention to the agreement of the leadership of the National Assembly, which is to agree with the vice-presidents that we should call for an application on our own. So we call for an explanation of vote once, so those who want to explain their vote would be asked to sign up now. I'm not opening the application again. So who wants to discuss or who wants to explain their voice? Please. Check-in is on. Mr. Matjaž Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! It is true that we are Members and Members of this National Assembly before a challenging task, before an important decision is taken. I am personally disappointed at the functioning of the current coalition when it is somehow unable or unwilling to talk to the social partners by reaching a conclusion. I am also aware that Slovenia is in financial difficulty, that public debt needs to be reduced, etc. I hope that today's process, if it starts, will not be one of those procedures that we will somehow expel or put people aside. I will vote today for this procedure to begin. But since I have, thank God, a spare fall to see what this law you're about to make is going to be a constitutional law, and then you're going to need, dear coalition, two-thirds. Then I'll consider whether I vote yes or no. If the experts' comments are taken into account, if the voice of the social partners is taken into account, then my vote will be taken into account, and in the other case you will not have my vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr Roman Jakič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Mr. President, you mentioned Kant. Kant wrote the book The Basis of Metaphysics to Brava, which is his first work dedicated to the systematic representation of moral philosophy. He says, "although moral consciousness appears in all intelligent beings, it certainly does not imply the universality of morality. In addition, there are some common attempts," says Kant, "that try to reason against the laws of duty and challenge their validity". Of course, this law of duty, as a Member of the National Assembly, is also open to me to the debates that have taken place today, does not give me room for manoeuvre to support this decision, which is before us or to change the Constitution. And I don't want to make it clear that I'm not a statesman, but I'm a politician, because state policy is not just what the coalition is proposing, but what we are saying is what we are anti-liberal destruction of the social state, and we are politicians. That's why I'm going to make excuses, like you, to Switzerland. It is true in Switzerland that they have a golden rule, but in Switzerland there is a referendum law and there is no possibility of restricting the referendum initiative to change the constitution. That is why I will abstain from voting, just as I abstained from voting on the Constitutional Commission yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u119	Thank you. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. I am also disappointed by the functioning of this coalition and that, despite the fact that we are offering you a hand, you do not hear that you would like to have some more reasoned debate on such an important issue as this. The fact is, if you are serious about consolidating public finances, you do not have to wait, but start immediately. You started your way of ending it, we'll see, but it doesn't look so good. But today I will support this initiation of the procedure myself. However, I would like to make it clear that this certainly does not mean that I will also support the change of constitution. I would not like our votes today to support the initiation of the procedure to be taken as a fact that we will also support or speculate with the Constitution. However, in Positive Slovenia we will not agree to an emergency when changes to the Constitution, which is by no means meaningful, are even less necessary or historically than we have heard today, and we will support the change in the Constitution and the article you want to write down in the Constitution, provided that it fully enjoys the necessary support of the profession. What's not here today is what I hope you know.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Today would be an opportunity to avenge you for three-year attacks in this direction. But we're not like that. We want to be a different coalition. I still had a chance today to say in the debate how I feel about the government's work, about the balance and so on. Maybe some school will come out of it. You're definitely going through the wall with your head, but no matter what, there's still a few steps to real constitutional changes, and then I'm going to make a different decision. I'll back this thing up tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u123	Thank you. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u124	Thank you very much. With a preliminary decision on voting on it, you had the ideal opportunity, dear coalition, to show that you are serious about concluding alliances for the true destiny, I will say, solutions for our country. In your old manner, you acted as you did, and of course you overcame this conclusion. As a result of this, because I really do not trust you about how things will go forward, I cannot support the proposal to continue the debate, even though I know that the decision will be voted on. And believe me, I will be very creatively involved in further discussions by expressing concerns that will, of course, be justified in relation to the content that we will discuss. In fact, it means a change of constitution to something fateful for this Slovenian nation, and it must always be accepted with a shaking hand, even though we accept solutions that we all agree are good. But how we accept them and what the content of the commitment is in this connection, that is a fundamental question. So, my dear coalition, vote for yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Vogrin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u126	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I have a feeling that today we are going to vote on the opening of a constitutional change procedure. I hope and, of course, all those who still hesitate to vote in favour, please, and I call for us to vote. Why? Those of us who have a bad experience know that we need to respond to the crisis. Some of us have come to realize this relatively late. We are also paying the price for this, but the country does not have to pay the price, but all citizens. We've been behind for about three years. We're still on the road when we can catch this train and get out of it. Of course, it will take a great deal of patience, reason, courage and above all, but I agree with many, a great deal of feeling in the coalition, that it is nevertheless aware that we are aware that we need the cooperation of virtually everyone in Parliament for such a fateful and important change. This means that if we vote today and do not change the constitution, there is not so much the responsibility of the opposition as of the coalition. We have to work in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u128	I will vote in favour because, of course, I do not change the words from today to tomorrow, as described by Mr Tanko, or anyone else. However, I will monitor very clearly and closely only the debate, especially the part of how much it will be possible for this expert commission to actually do its work. Let me warn you. Mr Cerar, who is referred to here by many, warned that pressure was being exerted on him or on the expert committee. So if we want to have a change of constitution as it should be, let's keep it as it is done, in the process, with some time, not with a shaking hand, what I've been listening to for the last two months, but with a frozen hand, because it's just sometimes too fast. And whoever's running too fast, we know how it ends. I hope we're not on the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u130	There are many reasons in me that I should be against today. Finally, you have also crowned this relationship by proving again and again that you are not worthy of the hands offered. Because any request, let's sit down, let's talk, let's say no matter what. I admit that in the second I sat down and pressed this green button, I didn't know what to say. Take this as my weakness as a policy. Our job is to make decisions. In all of today's debate, I have not been convinced by the supporters of the fiscal rule why they are in a hurry, what is the country's long-term indebtedness, and what are the other categories that we have already summarized in the text of the expert commission and have brought them before the National Assembly today with the blessing of the Constitutional Commission. I still don't know why that's good. All I see is that scenario that you've been drawing for me for a few weeks, that you've been instrumentalizing the shock doctrine in this country. And I'm afraid of this scenario of yours. And I count myself proud of those who don't trust you. And I'm going to join that Matjaj parachute. In the next step, I recommend that you be significantly more open to cooperation and listen to what we say at this point and in this point closely related questions, if you want my vote for, as today for the start of the procedure, also when we are actually accepting amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr. Borut Pahor has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u132	Deeply convinced that the decision to propose is good for the vital interests of this country and its people, I will vote in favour of this proposal. Not only do I base this on the actual consequences of the fiscal rule to strengthen fiscal discipline, but, in particular, at this important and crucial moment in Slovenian politics, when problems accumulate, I assess that the rejection of such a proposal from a certain point of view, to solve problems, would turn into an atmosphere when they accuse each other of why these problems are not solved and who is more responsible for it. For this reason, I will today vote in favour of this proposal. The proposal to prepare for the final text of the amendments to the Constitution will require a great deal of political wisdom and, of course, professional grounds. Therefore, if we vote on this proposal today, we will have time. But if we reject it today, we will never again come into the situation that is enabling us to do so. I will therefore vote in favour of this proposal today, allowing a certain atmosphere of cooperation to be strengthened in the country. When it comes to laws where only the ordinary majority is needed, I will be able to vote against all responsibility because those responsible for power today will be able to vote in favour. But when it comes to questions where the two-thirds majority is needed – and I will think very carefully about how to vote in favour of the people who elected me. And today I think I will vote in their best interests if I support this. When there is a vote on the usual laws, we are two teams when we vote on laws with a two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u133	Thank you. And Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u134	First, Mr. President. If you and both Vice-Presidents have agreed that it will only be a once-in-a-lifetime application, it must be in the Rules of Procedure. If it says so in the Rules of Procedure, it's okay if it doesn't, it can't be. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote against this because I do not trust that you have not accepted a delay, which means that we can clear up certain things in the shortest time possible. So far you have not accepted anything we have proposed, and that means that I do not believe that there is anything else in the back. However, we must be sure that the trade unionists will have interlocutors and teachers and all the others working to ensure that what is envisaged in the balance sheet does not happen. You have also not respected the proposals on the balance and you need us now and never again. I don't condition my vote for later. I know that a fiscal rule must also be adopted, and I supported it, but it is my basis to vote against it. We have asked for a postponement, we have proposed a decree that would not mean anything but to clarify, including by a committee that is working in this field, so with expertise, and from last night to today, tell me who I can ask, how should I vote on the fiscal rule. Who am I supposed to ask? Once again, what the Government has proposed is no longer a proposal. I will vote absolutely against this because I am convinced that I am helping workers, workers, pensioners, unionists and all those who must fight, who are hard to survive and who are waiting for our decisions. Today in Parliament we should talk about something other than a constitutional change, we should talk about the real problems of our country – employment, new jobs, how they will survive. Well, we should be saying all that. The fiscal rule, ladies and gentlemen, is not going to solve this. Once again, I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u135	Thank you. Just an explanation, Mr. Meh. The Rules of Procedure require the President to collect applications for explanations of vote and nothing to say about the need to collect these applications more than once. That is why this is a question of how to conduct the meeting, I would say, a technical question. We have discussed this issue with the leaders of the parliamentary groups. There was no complete agreement, but there was a majority view that we would only allow a single application. And at the end of the day, this is a matter for the president. The three of us presidents - Mr President, as you know, are absent - have agreed that this is how we will conduct the meeting. We have thus concluded our explanations of vote and are moving on to decision-making. I put to the vote the following motion for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts the Government proposal of 16. 3. 2012, EPA 206/6, to initiate a procedure to amend Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law. The decision will be taken if two thirds of the Members and Members present vote for it. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 3. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision was adopted by the National Assembly. Since the National Assembly has adopted a decision to initiate a procedure to amend Article 148 of the Constitution, we are moving to a debate on the draft constitutional law and the position of the Constitutional Commission on it. There's still time for the debate. We can further discuss the draft constitutional law and the proposed positions on the positions formulated by the Constitutional Commission. Therefore, I ask that those who wish to debate apply for the debate. Mr Happy Meh has signed up, please. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u136	Now it's 8:31 p.m., important matter, so what we're going to write in the constitutional law, we've set as a starting point what it should include. And let us discuss this today in the rest of our votes when we have discussed all the other content so far. I don't think that's appropriate. Today you are leading or we are having a debate because I am involved, in this direction, to lead it in an emergency. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is not an emergency. However, there are exceptional situations for those of us who expect social benefits, jobs, pensions, and expect everything else that people need to survive so that they can connect the end to the end. They expect us to say what Gorenje will do to his workers when it moves production. What are we gonna do about Primor? So what we're going to do is people are asking us. Not that today we are talking about writing in the Constitutional Law how we will implement this fiscal rule. Today, we did not ask the congregations what they thought. We have adopted a fiscal rule or starting point for a fiscal rule by which municipalities should not be in debt, as is the case with RTV, until the government approves it. Excuse me. Where did we come from?Oh, my God! Therefore, it is also set up with these starting points, which are written here, and I have only read them fluently, even the congregations in an impossible position. But we have set ourselves as a starting point for adopting a change of constitution within one month, and then in one year, if I remember correctly, we will adopt a constitutional law. There's too much stuff to talk about. Finally, it is also about referendums and the right to decide that people have this right. I know that the Borut Pahor government didn't like it because we called the referendums or initiated them and they were at every turn, but people were able to make decisions. Of course, I am afraid that with all that we are going to write in the Constitution, we will make it impossible for people to debate. And once again, it is not right to discuss at this late hour with my little sarcastic comment 'it is time and we can also talk about the starting points for the constitutional law that we are going to adopt today'. I'm sorry, I can't accept this starting point! I don't know. I didn't get much time to consult so I could say anything about it. So, it is a responsibility, for the responsibility of us, ladies and gentlemen, and not for the government, the government will pay its price, we will do our part here, or we will not do that, and we actually bear that responsibility. Of course, I think that this debate would also have to be a starting point, because I say that there is still much to be said about these starting points. Anyway, have a nice trip.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-10.ana.u137	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the position submitted by the Constitutional Commission. Let me inform you that, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 178 of the Rules of Procedure, the position will be adopted if the majority of all Members vote for it, so this time it is for the majority, 46. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 2. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the position has been adopted. We're done with the decision. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 179 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Constitutional Commission will, on the basis of its position adopted, prepare a proposal for a constitutional law and submit it for consideration to the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also conclude the 10th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you so much and good night.
