ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I begin the 8th regular meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Melita Župevc, Janja Klasinc, Roberto Battelli, Srečko Meh and from 3 pm to Tomaž Lisec. I invited the President of the Government, Minister, Ministers and Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 8th meeting of the National Assembly. You received your proposal on Monday 12 November 2012, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the proposal in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. However, we have received a proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda, namely Mr Matjaž Han, President of the Committee on the Economy, of the National Assembly, proposing that the agenda of the 8th meeting should be withdrawn from the agenda of the 12th item, which is the draft law on amendments and additions to the Commercial Law, which is the first consideration. You received the proposal by letter of 19. 11. 2012. Mr. Han, would you like a word explaining this motion for withdrawal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr President, for giving me the opportunity to explain my proposal. In view of the fact that the Chamber of Commerce received a new leadership last week and that there is an important law before us, which will have a strong impact both on craftsmen and medium-sized enterprises, I propose not for substantive reasons, but for reasons that the new leadership will be given the opportunity to discuss with the Ministry of Economy, so that the item on the amendments to the Commercial Law can be moved to one of the following regular meetings or to the next regular meeting. I have informed you, Mr Virant, before writing the letter, and I have also informed Minister Žerev with this proposal, and Mr Zerjav has agreed in principle, aware that we are voting on this matter both Members and Members. Once again, I propose that we move the point to the next meeting, not for substantive reasons, but on the grounds that the craftsmen, the new leadership, meet with Mr Žerjav and that they renegotiate the craftsmen's law and that the craftsmen's law will receive one broad support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u3	Thank you. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? No wish. Then we can move on to a decision. Please check for voting devices. We decide on the proposal to withdraw that item from the agenda. I am terminating the vote because apparently some voting devices are not working. Is he all right now? Okay, now, really, we're voting. We're voting. There are 78 in attendance, 35 in favour, 43 in favour. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted. However, I would like to remind my colleague Han that there is still a good time to discuss the law in one way or another, so we have two months to prepare the amendments. But the law is at this stage that the government can't even withdraw it. We can now move on to a full agenda. I suggest that we set the agenda for today's session, which you have received with reference. We're voting on the agenda. I'm closing the vote. There's 79 in attendance for 72, against no one. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I'm guessing the agenda is set. I am adjourning the meeting, which we will continue with agenda item 1 at 3 p.m., which is with questions from Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u4	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. I welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister, the Secretary-General of the Government. On this point, Mr Aleš Hojs, Minister for Defence, and Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, apologized for today. You have received an overview of the questions and initiatives that were not answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. Mr Janez Janša will answer to the first four. The first question will be raised by Mrs Alenka Pavlič, Positive Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u5	Mr President of the Government, saving leads us to destruction. But the destruction of the country is unacceptable. Only the start-up of the economy and economic growth can help state finances for better, people for better wages and new jobs. The situation in Slovenia is deteriorating and the lights at the end of the tunnel will not be seen in the coming months. Slovenia remains among EU members with a major deterioration since the start of the crisis, according to Umar 5. Ten. 2012. The International Monetary Fund has expressed concern about the intensification of savings in some developed economies and has warned against the negative effects this will have on the growth of the global economy. After the end of the third day of the annual session, the Director-General of the Fund spoke about the necessity of easing savings, saying that many governments have systematically underestimated the impact of fiscal consolidation on the growth of national economies in adopting stringent measures. Johann Becker, an Austrian political scientist and economist who has been following the neoliberal march across Latin America for the past three decades, warns. Saving measures are not the way out of the crisis. They've never been anywhere. If they don't work, we can see them in southern Europe today. Multiple and coordinated demonstrations are a new quality. Demonstrations in Ljubljana are part of a European story. The slogans we witnessed Saturday at the Slovenian meeting against the way in which the crisis was resolved are not surprising. Young people want to be part of the solution, not the problem. They're all too much for you. Even children who want to eat. Young people, we trusted you with our future. Don't let our hearts go any other way. "You're sick of your mother," the pensioners warn. Mr President: When do you intend to transform the policy of belt tightening into a policy of raising economic growth, increasing competitiveness and opening new jobs, in view of the warnings from Europe and all important Slovenian economists and economists?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u6	The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u7	Thank you very much. What you're asking is the government is already doing, but it's doing two things at the same time. It thus consolidates public finances and at the same time adopts measures that are expected to lead to greater growth in the future. The warnings of the International Monetary Fund, which you cited, mainly fly to those countries that have faced the crisis three years ago. There's no Slovenia. It is also very difficult for us to talk about saving because we are not yet saving, madam. We're just trying to be less indebted than we were in the past, but we're still in debt, and we're not saving any of what we're creating. But we try to make what we spend more than we create as little as possible. Partly, the government has succeeded with those first measures, and part of the effort is still being made. We've got a big stash waiting for us in the next two years, probably three years. So do not interfere here with Slovenia, which has just begun to deal with the crisis, with the right measures this year, or Germany, which has done this task for example in 2009. In fact, they started a new economic growth there with savings, and we will be very happy to see the day when we can save some money. That is, when we create something more than what we give for current consumption and we can invest in it. Try your household at the end of the month if you earn a thousand euros and spend a thousand euros on what to invest. I don't know what the neighbors would say if I told you why you don't invest in a thousand euros, but if you need a thousand euros to pay the bills and cover all the other costs. And you're gonna have to do something about that. Demagogy is very cheap, it's sold at all ends, but it doesn't create new values. Slovenia has a limited number of opportunities to boost economic growth. Before we take this seriously at all, we need to edit the house and reduce this steep increase in debt that we have witnessed in recent years. Two sources are for new investments, which is the basis for growth and jobs. One is European funds, which are still a few unexploited, and here the government is making every effort to make up for this delay. This week, there will also be a European Council meeting where we will negotiate new funds in the next 7-year financial perspective by 2020. Let us hope that at least some of this will also happen for Slovenia, given the trends we have overcome in recent years. But these funds are relatively limited. More potential sources are foreign investments. However, if investors come to us and invest in our companies or start new programs, they need an encouraging environment. The government has done a number of things in these seven, eight months to improve this environment. You have also heard statements by economists that the environment for investing in Slovenia has never been so favourable in formal matters. What is the broader environment, though, is your own judgment. The assembly and demonstrations were legitimate, but I doubt that any protests, both in Europe on Wednesday and in Slovenia on Saturday, encouraged any foreign investor to come to us and invest. I doubt they've encouraged any domestic entrepreneur to invest more. This also calls for questions about such benefits. Especially if you listen to the government's accusations in the same performance, which has reduced taxes on the economy, and at the same time calls on the government to do something to make the economy more resilient.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u8	Mrs. Alenka Pavlič, a request to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u9	It's 1991, the state's not in the war when we needed a general at the summit to free us. Europe and Slovenia are in economic crisis. We need economists, managers who know the economy and know how to save the country from the drop in credit ratings and the fall in the standard of the Slovenian population. At the top of the Slovenian economy last Wednesday in Brdo we listened to the ones we trust most and the ones we need most – the economists. But we didn't hear what you just said, but the other way around. We heard: "We stand for the rule of law. We demand a better business environment!" Which means he hasn't. "We demand a new development momentum, launching investments through large infrastructure projects, supporting innovation, procurement. We are for strong export support." The economists say one thing and your government is doing the opposite. Why? Either you don't want us to get out of the crisis, or you just don't know, because in your first term, you drained honey and milk. Mr President, will you nevertheless comply with the demands of economists and can you confirm that you will pursue these goals with your government team?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u10	The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u11	It is very interesting to hear in the same question of Parliament first what was said on Saturday at the union demonstrations, and then support for what was said at the top of the economy, even though it was three quarters for completely diametric things. I wouldn't even comment on it like that. As for the measures taken by the government, we have never said that they would be taken overnight. This is impossible, even in better conditions it takes longer. Nor do we say that next year this will all be different. Those who are loud today may have to be loud three years ago, but it would have been a lot different. It is now necessary to have some patience, but also little confidence in the ability of Slovenian people to manage, as a large part of the economy has adapted to the crisis, that the backbone of the Slovenian economy is not five, six large companies, but thousands, you could say to tens of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises that had to tighten the belt three years ago to survive. Today, many are also re-employing. They replace those lost jobs in sectors that are still in crisis and in companies that are still failing so that unemployment stagnates. If this vital part of the Slovenian economy were not to exist, then these numbers would be significantly worse. Most of the measures taken by the Government have been designed by the Government to give such incentives. I must also say that even in 2007, when Slovenia had a record economic growth when it invested on record, we still heard similar demands that more help should be given to exporters, that such and other things should be encouraged more. And that's just normal, it can still be better. But when we talk about today's moment, we need to look at our public cash registers, see how much we collect there, and know that the government can't divide more than what we collect. As far as the other two options are concerned, we are doing our best to deliver the best results. But do not expect honey and milk to drain within a few weeks after we have done nothing for three years.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u12	Procedurally, Mrs. Alenka Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u13	[[...]] [[microphone off]] to check our signatures on stolen signatures [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u14	Procedural proposal, please, Mrs. Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u15	The business environment has deteriorated significantly, we are losing jobs, you are shutting down healthy businesses. There is no new development start-up investment. Although one billion funds of European money await us in Europe, there is no spirit or hearing about projects [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u16	Can you please, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, tell us what your procedural proposal is, because it is not right for you to do so beyond the Rules of Procedure? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u17	You're taking my time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u18	Excuse me, but you have now [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u19	The Slovenian state holding company and the bad bank are sand in the eyes, as it is already quite clear to everyone that you have only 13 billion European money. There is no doubt that European countries are in charge. Among the Ten Most Indebted [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u20	I'm sorry, but you're abusing the rules of procedure, and I'm gonna take your word for it. There's no other way. You know exactly what a procedural proposal is intended for, and it is not right to abuse it that way. Now I'm warning you for the first time, for the second time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u21	In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that a public debate be held in the National Assembly on changing the policy of economic governance, which is more than a policy of economic destruction of the rule of law and police dictatorship. This mode of governance undermines all the rights required by the State.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u22	Now I didn't quite get it right. Have you made a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the response of the Prime Minister as usual? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u23	Do I say it again?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u24	For questions? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u25	In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that a debate be held in the National Assembly on a policy of economic governance, which is more than a policy of economic destruction, a legal and police dictatorship. This mode of management undermines all the rights required by society.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u26	See, if you propose to discuss some of the issues related to economic policy, you will simply prepare the material and submit it as we have stated in the Rules of Procedure. But if you ask [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u27	I suggest [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u28	debate on the response [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u29	I propose a debate on the response of the President of the Government. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u30	That's all right. Thank you. We will decide on this procedural proposal in the framework of the votes of the National Assembly. Procedurally, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u31	Dear President! With this action, you have now shown more than clearly that you leave one party to explain because of the procedural procedure which the Rules of Procedure require us to use time. And it is more than clear that this site or everyone has misused it on purpose. You have now decided to take advantage of your business opportunity as chairman of this assembly in order to give strict warning. Now I warn you that every time I ask every question of this House, I will make a procedural request at all three minutes when it is not done as you wish today. And I think that, President, you went over again and introduced a new parliamentary practice. It's been 20 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u32	Thank you for your warning, Mr. Möderndorfer. But really, we have had a standard on the questions sent for months and months, whenever I lead to the proposal that a debate be held on the response of the Minister or the President of the Government, and then this is explained a little bit. I suggest you discuss this with the Group of Members. I now give the floor to Mr Janko Webr, who will ask the next question of the Parliament to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u33	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome to the Prime Minister and the government team who are here today in the National Assembly. I want to ask the President of the Government the question: What are the plans of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to manage state property? I am asking this question because we find that there are currently 6 members of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank from 11. In doing so, it should be pointed out that three are already foreigners. The Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank, however, published in the media a call from the Assembly to appoint two other foreigners to the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank in December. It means that out of 6 members we will have 5 foreigners in the supervisory board of the New Ljubljana Bank. And we are asked whether this is because the government does not know what to do with the New Ljubljana Bank, which is the backbone of the Slovenian economy, or whether or not it is here that everything is being prepared for the sale of our bank and that this is not about the management of property, but rather about the sale. Another example that we can follow during this period where I feel that the government does not explain how it wants to deal with state property is the case of Elena. In its report, the European Commission stated that in the case of Elan, state aid of 10 million and that an answer was needed by both Elan and the Government, or that it would challenge such a decision by the European Commission, and whether the Government would support Elan in that if it was already necessary to return that money in order not to pay it back in one amount, but perhaps this amount could be postponed in several instalments for a longer period. The following example, which we are also following during this period, is the case of Cimosa, who is dependent on about 3,000 jobs in Slovenia. This is the most important supplier in the automotive industry, which also cannot operate in Slovenia without hiring credits. It is also about Cimos whether he will actually be able to reprogram this loan and whether the country will go along with at least EUR 8 million of recapitalisation, which is essential for this company to remain healthy. That's why I'm asking you: What are the plans for the management of state property by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u34	The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u35	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, are you asking about these three cases or in general? Yeah. As far as Elena's concerned, the government will probably complain. As far as Cimosa is concerned, the Minister of Economy is making great efforts to assist the company, within the framework of the powers conferred by the Government, by the number of jobs and also by the number of prospective programmes in this company. But here is a key decision in the hands of commercial banks. As far as economic aid policy is concerned, I do not think that this warning about Elan is the last one to come from the European Commission. There are indications that some of the other State aid granted in the previous mandate was also disputed from the point of view of the assessment of the European institutions. That's why our problems aren't over. Thus, if we give 10 million to Elan and 50 million to Adrio, we break European rules or at least walk on the edge, then we justify ourselves, and once the times are even harder, we pay back this money and finally sink some company. From this point of view, it is also important to be very careful when it is called on to have budgetary money in place without serious reflection and without taking into account the European framework and domestic legislation. However, it is clear that the State will do its utmost to protect the interests of taxpayers and also the interests of those companies. However, it is not the case if we press charges or when we launch them that the final decision is in our hands.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u36	Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u37	Thank you. I didn't get all the answers I wanted in the first part. I would like to know why this ratio of the presence of foreigners in the control world is, after December 12th and 20th, only another representative from Slovenia. That is why I would like further clarification by the President. However, let me remind you, Mr President, that, for example, Germany strongly resisted when saving Opel and actually bought this share to maintain this production of the company, even though it was owned by an American company. And so did America when she was saving her economy, her banks. She didn't care if someone might tell her that she was doing something wrong. They were saving their economy, saving jobs. I think it is still necessary to say out loud at this point that any labour market programme that the Government could draw up if we do not cooperate with the economy and help them keep their jobs, no reform of this work will help. This is a very important decision whether the government will help Elan. You said it was possible. I think that this complaint should undoubtedly be forwarded by the Government, because if the company complains, this complaint to the European Commission is significantly more substantiated if this Commission sees that this company is supported by the Government as well. I ask for further clarification from the New Ljubljana Bank and, of course, from the other measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u38	The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u39	It's not Elan's question whether the government will help or not. The government has already helped or helped Slovenian taxpayers by giving Elan 10 million euros. The European Commission considers that this has been illegal, that this has been done beyond the rules and requires a refund of money. The Minister of Finance informed us at the college about an hour ago that Slovenia would complain. So it's not or, but it means it will. But I said we can't guarantee a way out, because then it's a matter of court, and it's a teaching that the next time you think about it, it's done in such a way that you don't have to pay it back. Nothing helps if we talk about how Germany helped Opel. Clearly, it has done so in a way that is consistent with European legislation, European and national legislation and does not need to be reimbursed. It is simply a matter of being a little considerate in these steps, not taking these steps simply because of the public impact, and boasting about how it helped some company, and then returning the money. This must be done in such a way that the company benefits in the long term and that it has no harm to taxpayers. As far as the New Ljubljana Bank is concerned. For the first time, I hear that in December, the Supervisory Board is supposed to have 11 foreigners or I don't know what you're saying. The government didn't decide, I wasn't informed of anything. I'm also surprised you have this information. Where did the opposition member get the information, how much and who should be in the control council of the New Ljubljana Bank in December? I don't have that information.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u40	Mr. Weber, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u41	Thank you for your word. I propose, on a procedural basis, that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly should hold a debate on the genuinely inadequate response of the President of the Government to my questions. The Management Board of Nova Ljubljanska Banka published a decision on the reference of the Assembly of the New Ljubljana Bank in Dnevnik, i.e. in the daily newspaper, so that this information is accessible to all, so that it wishes to convene a meeting to which it wishes to appoint two new members to the Supervisory Board, which are expressly mentioned, come from abroad. As the opposition did, we simply read the newspapers and obtained this information. But we are concerned because he is currently a 6-member Supervisory Board and of all these 6 members he will obviously be 5 foreigners in December. This is also particularly so because we know that the Belgian bank has not met the conditions for, say, 3 representatives in the Supervisory Council, given its share of the Bank of New Ljubljana, because their share is too small to be allowed by the Shareholder Agreement. Such a lack of interest on the part of the Government towards our most important bank, which in fact represents the backbone of our economy and, last but not least, the information base of our economy, is, of course, an issue that we really need to discuss extensively and in detail in the National Assembly. It is unacceptable that we leave coincidences to the New Ljubljana Bank and thus, through the presence of foreigners, in fact, allow all information about our economy to flow abroad. Mr President, also Elan, this 10 million aid was granted by the State during your first government in 2007, so it is not about the previous government, but about the aid granted at that time by your government. What I would like to point out is that the Government would really define itself as soon as possible and would really require a change of decision from the European Commission. However, if a change is not already possible, at least a round-the-clock repayment of this potentially unlawful State aid. With regard to Cimos, I think the issue is really so huge, given that there are 3,000 jobs in Slovenia that depend on the government not to be a problem of recapitalisation by the government of EUR 8 million, the rest will already be tried by the other owners. However, this indicates that we are essentially subjugating or selling, selling our assets without public criteria. The National Assembly on this issue must hold a debate to know what is going on in Slovenia – either for management or for sale.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u42	Thank you. The third opposition parliamentary question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be put by Mr Roman Jakič. Procedurally, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u43	Dear President, now you've seen the difference you've made. But that's just because for the first time, either you don't read the rules or you just don't want to understand what was adopted and agreed on 10. 12. 2002 when this second paragraph of Article 246 was dealt with on a business committee. The fact is, as President, I ask you not to interfere with the debate of the Member and to take up her time, because nowhere in the Rules of Procedure or in the Explanatory Notes, or in the Commission where this debate was held, there is no question of when to ask this question, a request for a debate on the very issue raised by the President of the Government. If you, as President, would allow a Member to speak to the end, this question would be raised. In this case, it was that colleague Weber pointed out this at the beginning and you were simply satisfied. This does not allow you to do so, and therefore you have violated the right of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u44	Mr. Möderndorfer, that's all I'd explain. At the last meeting of the College, we talked to the members of the College about the fact that we need to be as precise and consistent as possible, and not agree to the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, which is why I am trying to stick to it. The third round of the parliamentary question may, by way of rules of procedure, only propose that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government or the Minister. In the case of Mr Weber, I heard it immediately, but in the case of Mrs Pavlič, I did not. But I don't think it's such a big deal that we're wasting time on this right now. But we'll say something about this at the College of Heads of Parliament. I give the floor to Roman Jakić to ask the President of the Government a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u45	Mr Janša, the Slovenian Constitution says that in Slovenia the people have authority. Of course he doesn't, because you've taken control of the winning election. But even if we followed our last statements on government public support, we should step down now. Well, no. No, because you don't care about the people, you are more concerned about those who want to grab the last Slovenian factories created by the citizens of the decade with hard work, including those whose citizens you are selectively violating the rights to a well-deserved pension. The Constitution also says that Slovenia is a social state. Like you and your government started to design it, of course not. More and more in the country of children who are hungry in schools and their parents who are looking for material and financial assistance everywhere, and you charge them selective taxes, reduce wages and forgive them, while you eat yourself after lunches, drive on rented planes on business and on private and in many state companies you employ your relatives and friends. The Constitution also states that Slovenia is a state of law and democracy. And it's almost going to raise the cynical question, which fairy tale is this quote from. Mr Janša, as a long-standing politician, you certainly know how they name the republics in the world where the authorities are gravely violating the Constitution of the protected rights of citizens. In the light of the well-known importance of respect for the rule of law, democracy, human rights, civil liberties, I would like to know from you the following: Do you actually believe that the recent loss of referendum signatures is merely an accidental incident? Do you believe that you are not responsible for this outrageous disgrace, nor are you responsible for the National Assembly led by your coalition partner, not by the MNZ, led by a leading member of your own party? Do you believe in an investigation involving investigators and, in fact, investigating themselves? Do you believe that your political objectives justify all the resources you use? Do you believe that democracy, in which the most important constitutional rights of citizens are treated as a pig with fur, is still a democracy? Do you believe that you can have enough political culture to assume your share of responsibility for what is objectively the responsibility of your coalition and your government, or can you still believe in the credibility, legitimacy and integrity of your government and your coalition?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u46	The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u47	Thank you very much for a few questions, otherwise, the performance, as it has always been with respectable Mr Jakic, was a bit insulting, but not now. As for this crying after the lost opportunity, Mr. Jakič, I was sitting there in the parliamentary bench for a month and I was waiting for you to form a government after the election of the great winners but you didn't know how to count, you didn't form a government. This coalition came together after it was obviously the only alternative. And it still is. I can back off tomorrow, but then what? I'm gonna sit there for a month and wait for you to form a government and you probably won't make it again. However, Slovenia will continue to dive. Slowly, it would be time for us to stop this calibre and deal with serious issues. As far as the lost signatures for the referendum requested by the unions or for the referendum request are concerned, this is a scandal. That's not supposed to happen. Our executive board has also, I think, condemned this the most. But before it points to anyone, we need to find out what happened, find out who did it, and then claim responsibility. Otherwise, it's a scandal. If we were the opposition and someone lost our signatures, they would also demand responsibility and make noise. I think it's perfectly clear that this shouldn't have happened. The same scandal is the copying of parliamentary signatures to submit two referendums. It's the same scandal, but it's all gone. So it is necessary to have the same vats here, and here too someone should take responsibility. As far as the question is concerned, whether the Government is working to make Slovenia legal, not just legal, would also say the just state and that it would apply the same criteria for all, but the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u48	Mr. Jakič, a request for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u49	I am already used to the fact that the President of the Government disqualifies in a way that talks about me or talks about a client, but does not answer specific questions. But it's a method of disqualification and discreditation known to SDS for the last twenty years. But in spite of everything I'm really interested in when we're talking, I have to say that I'm protesting that you're comparing or speaking, you're trying to relativize the story about photocopying signatures with missing signatures. We both know what this country stands for. You were in prison, and I was in prison when we demonstrated and built this country to respect human rights, to respect civil liberties. The disappearance of signatures is one of the lowest things that can happen in democratic countries. And there's no question of which culprit we're going to find, whether it's the secretary-general of the National Assembly or someone who's photocopying with Minister Gorenak. It's about finding that they disappeared, that someone was trying to cheat, that people were found with their fingers in a marmalade. And now that we know they've disappeared, credibility has fallen in this country's state institutions. The confidence of citizens and citizens in institutions has fallen. Let me tell you what someone who signed for TES at home is now imagining whether you didn't accidentally, uglyly, throw it on a platter, so I don't use any bad expression.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u50	Mr. Prime Minister? No, no, no. Okay, so he's not answering. Mr Jakič would like to inform us that the applicant for the referendum on the Law on TES 6 has sent us a written statement in which he explicitly states – as it relates to the National Assembly – I must explain this – that there was no irregularity in this procedure in the National Assembly or in the Ministry. Please, Mr. Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u51	Mr President, you are in grave violation of the Rules of Procedure and you are explaining something. As a comment, I have made that it is possible to put under question any human initiative that has been found, in this case, a mistake has been found that this human initiative has been deprived. Therefore, you will already be able to discuss this differently, without exclusively defending yourself and yourself in this national assembly. In order to avoid any misunderstanding, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I request a discussion on the reply of the President of the Government or more on the outstanding questions of the President of the Government on how he intends to ensure that the administrative authorities allow the exercise of the constitutional right to a referendum in a concrete and legal manner and how he intends to address the good name of the State of Slovenia in the domestic and foreign public in this referendum place that has taken place in our country. Let me quote my late friend and mentor, Lord Russell Johnston, who likes to say that there are three of the greatest lies in any language: the government is here to help you. The check's already at the post office. Darling, of course I'll still love you in the morning. The behaviour of your government, especially your non-social policy, is a good proof of the first two cases of lies. With this outrageous manipulation of the referendum signatures, we have also received proof for the third. What is going on is nothing more than a common and grave commitment of citizens to respect their rights under the Constitution. If anyone thinks my description of the condition is travel and vulgar, he's absolutely right. But of course it's not my fault.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u52	Fourth question to the Prime Minister of the Government. He'll be set up by a mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u53	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I welcome the government team, as well as our citizens and citizens, who are accompanying us live today. Your government, Mr Janša, has set itself clear goals and has prepared reform measures to get out of the economic and financial crisis. In the Civil Gazette, we claim that we live in a borrowed time in Slovenia at the moment. We agree that we must give as soon as possible a clear signal to the international financial markets that we are trustworthy. The measures we take and are inevitably also linked to the reduction in public consumption are not welcome. On Saturday, some of our citizens were driven to the streets. At this point, we also have two initiatives to call for a legislative referendum. Our model of referendum regulation allows easy access to referendums and the weakness of such a system is causing instability, which is of key importance for Slovenia at this time. I would like to know, Mr. President of the Government: How do you assess the initiative signed by 50 Members to amend Article 90 of the Constitution? How do you see the referendums in the light of the adoption of reform measures? The aim of the proposal is to make a referendum in Slovenia to correct representative democracy, which would rarely be used for the most important social issues. And not last: How do you think the actual implementation of these referendums will affect the proposed measures and the implementation of the coalition parties' agreement on the outcome of the crisis? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u54	The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u55	Thank you so much for asking. The referendum regime, which was established at the time of the adoption of the Slovenian Constitution 21 years ago, was largely based on a good positive experience with plebiscite for Slovenia. At that time, no one realized that within this arrangement there could be a great deal of danger of blocking. As long as times are good, that's no problem. When times get worse, it gets more and more reflective of the problem. And that's what's happening to us at this time. Certain changes have already taken place in our previous mandate. May I remind you that our previous coalition managed to reach an agreement in the 2004-2008 mandate with the opposition at that time on the deletion of the previous legislative referendum, which allowed for even greater blockades and complications, and that this represents a step forward. The second step forward promised in the spring, when we reached in principle agreement at the Summit of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Parties to exempt legislation that has direct budgetary effects from the referendum decision. At the time all parliamentary parties were for this, but unfortunately some did not keep their word, so the Slovenian Constitution has still not been amended. This is why we face the risk of blocking also on key issues. Without stabilising the Slovenian banking system, it will be totally irrelevant how many supervisors and where they will be with the New Ljubljana Bank, because the banking system will not work. This is a significantly larger problem, not whether there is one alien more or less. I even think that foreigners would hardly be worse than what we had at home in these control councils, given the situation. And that's not a problem. The problem is that the measure that allows this vital authority of each economy to re-add oxygen to the economy is blocked and that it can also endanger all other efforts. It is also very difficult to explain to our colleagues in the European family the fact that the government actually has to negotiate with someone every day that the Minister of Finance is more involved in negotiations with the rubber trade union than at meetings of government bodies. In fact, no one understands how this is possible. On Tuesday, after the meeting of the Friends of Cohesion in Brussels, I also had a bilateral meeting with the President of the Greek Government, who explained to me what problems they have in Greece, when they are now very late to implement some of the measures they should have taken long ago. But when I explained to him what problems we have now with these blockades, he told me that so far he thought they had the most complicated situation in Europe. The news that anyone in Slovenia can also block emergency anti-crisis measures in the future poses a problem for Slovenia in itself, which means that until this problem is resolved, even if we do everything else that is now on the agenda and what is necessary, there will still be a shadow of doubts about the ability of this country to respond in time when a crisis comes, and of the ability of this country to resolve itself and that there is no burden on anyone else. So here are the spotlights and, as will be at the beginning of next year, when a known timeline of all other countries, when they will implement the gold fiscal rule into their national legislation at constitutional or similar level, for which we, by ratifying the fiscal compact, will assume an obligation, pressure or demand will also come upon us, and this issue will come with regard to the amendment of the referendum legislation, even if we do everything else. It's gonna be on the table anyway. Those in the National Assembly who are trying to reach a two-thirds consensus here, you have all the support of the government and also my appeal from this city to hurry and get to this solution as soon as possible, all the better for everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u56	Request to complete the response of the mags. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr President, for this part of the answer. In the Citizens' List, we fear that all the compromises that have been adopted would make this reform a mess, and that it would only delay for a while the harsh confrontation with our weak public finances. Do you also think that in the framework of legislation that belongs to the so-called reform package, solutions and over-compromise are also acceptable because we are all aware that virtually every political decision in Slovenia can be subject to a referendum opinion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u58	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u59	Yeah, that's a local question. We're getting it from somewhere else, but what will this reform be like if you deal with everything and everyone agrees with it? This in itself raises the suspicion that this is not a major step forward or that this has led to a breakdown in this situation when the agreement itself is presented as a success and the content does not change. This danger, of course, exists. The government is aware of this, but it will not succumb to this danger. Also because Slovenia has been in surplus budget deficit since 2009. What we are doing now has already been promised several times by the previous government to our partners, who lend us money or otherwise are connected in Europe. And there is, of course, external control. If we give up on the whole line now because there will be no referendum blockade, we can only celebrate one week and then the harsh reality will come. The objective is to agree on the substantive steps to be taken earlier. However, many of the objectives are, of course, guided by different paths and there is a room for manoeuvre for coordination, for coordination and so on and in some areas we have come quite far. However, the government will not agree to an agreement in order to reach an agreement on complete changes to the concepts, as suggested by the Banking Recovery Act, which we have aligned with all international institutions. Now the rubber industry union is not satisfied with this and wants a completely different concept, as if Slovenian payers had full pockets of money to continuously recapitalise Slovenian banks. There will be no derogation here. Even if further blockades occur, the Constitutional Court will have to decide. If things also go through the Constitutional Court, then Slovenia is over the edge and next year we will decide on the same things, so that it will probably be the highest on this priority scale just to remove the blockades that now prevent a quick exit from the crisis.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u60	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, we will now turn to the questions raised at the previous meeting of the National Assembly. Mr Franz Bogovic, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, will first answer these questions, first of all to Mr Branko Fick's question about the economy of agricultural investment. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I have been to the Council of Ministers in Brussels for my failure to attend the previous meeting. Mr Fick's questions were focused on this direction in terms of how we assess the financial situation of Slovenian agriculture resulting from the report on the state of agriculture, how funds are invested in this sector. With regard to the first question, which is how do I assess the results of Slovenian agriculture in terms of the funds invested and the extent of agricultural production determined, I would like to stress that agricultural policy, the last common policy within Europe, is in line with the World Trade Organisation. The main objective of this policy is to provide safe food for the consumer, to say safe food both in terms of health safety and in terms of quality, quantity, to say this food safety, and also to those involved in this activity, a reasonable profit. It's divided into these two pillars. Slovenian agricultural policy is also trying to directly support production through the first pillar in accordance with the rules known in Europe to support this deficit in the income situation of farmers. In the second pillar, which is a rural development programme, it also affects the restructuring of agricultural production and the restructuring of the countryside itself. Slovenian policy has decided during this period that these two pillars are about the same weight. We are here on rural development, strong across the European average, and on the first pillar on the European average. With these measures, we have managed on the basis of the starting points that have been adopted in this house, also adopted certain structural changes in recent years, the real number of farms has decreased, the average farm has increased from those 5.6 hectares to 4.6 hectares per farm, and the proportion of those farms that have more than 20 hectares of land and more than 30 heads of livestock is higher. These are the agricultural holdings in which the stability of Slovenian agriculture is also accounted for in the coming decades, with a significant share of small farms. The educational structure has also risen and these agricultural policy measures have also been targeted in recent years. How forward, what are the concrete measures we are planning to improve the relationship specifically in the area of value added raising, was the next issue. As regards this issue, we can say that we have also held a broad debate in the light of the coming new agricultural policy. The main emphasis that we want to place in this policy goes in the direction of integration, bringing the primary producers together in some products. This year, a regulation has already been drawn up which, in accordance with the proposed budget, will enter into force next year and will accelerate integration in the pigmeat, vegetables, hops, fruit and organic production sectors.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u62	Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry. I politely ask for order in the hall. The ones you're talking to, if you could please leave the hall. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u63	A key focus over the next period is, as I have already said, on the integration segment and also support measures for those associated with producer organisations will be in quality schemes and so on. This diversification in farms and new quality schemes is the next opportunity that we want to give more attention to in this context also to promoting agricultural production, adapting to new environmental standards, promoting short chains, strengthening local supply, increasing organic production. Our third pillar, which we also want to highlight under the new policy, is a better transfer of knowledge to agriculture. As far as specific industries are concerned, the third question of how we want to steer this investment is the result of a sector review. This year, individual sectors were examined in detail and as far as raising competitiveness is concerned, which we talked most about in both the Zrečs in the rural Parliament and at the round table when Commissioner Ciolos visited, and this is exactly how to raise competitiveness across individual sectors.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u64	Completing the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u65	Thanks for the answers. The fact is that the income in agriculture is only 1.2 billion per year in terms of an annual contribution of about 349 million. And that, in my opinion, is a low result. Even if we compare it with the gross added value of some 449 million, this is low, especially if we compare it with other European countries, even after the factor income, where it reaches only 42% of the average. However, if we take the old members or the EU15, this represents only 26% of the European Union average. This mainly gives the primary agricultural sector only 2.5% of GDP. The objective should be to ensure that the EU's spending is mainly towards higher value-added products. In my view, this set of products in some future perspective should be clearly targeted. Above all, I have a point to make that there is nothing to be done in the field of food processing, which still gives more to GDP, a circus of 7%. And if we take his income side, the circus of 2 billion, there should be further stimulation in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u66	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u67	Thank you for this opportunity to continue this clarification and also to answer what you have just asked. I also agree that these relations are at first sight problematic and need to be improved in the future and raised in production levels. I have also said that these are measures that we also intend to make clear through sectoral policies. It is also necessary to be precise in this part, as I tried in the first part. These are not just funds that farmers would receive for their farming. These are also funds for rural development, for the restructuring of farms and also for the funds mentioned by you for the food processing industry. An invitation to tender is now being concluded where the food processing industry has successfully entered. These funds also provide the means to promote the development of forestry and the wood processing sector or the entire chain. As far as products with higher added value are concerned, we are also based on Europe's green-farming orientation, which has already been supported in individual sectors by such measures in the fields of agriculture, fruit, wine growing, agriculture and livestock. These were measures where this superstandard has been recognised and to one extent has also tried to recover through these measures. We are also trying to upgrade existing standards for the next perspective, where in some cases Slovenian legislation will need to be upgraded, as some things are now becoming standard. One of the major highlights is the opportunity for short chains, the promotion of domestic sales, as well as the increase in the production of organic crops or foodstuffs, which have definitely greater demand in the Slovenian space than at this time the supply of these products. As the President of the Government has already mentioned in one of the previous replies, this week is one of the key talks where Europe will decide how much European funding for the rural development programme for the agricultural fund will be in the future. I can say calmly that, in the agricultural field, we are well prepared to monitor how the new reform is taking place, that we have a whole series of analyses on the basis of which, in a certain framework, we will also try to make the biggest possible in the last negotiations of the second half of next year, in the next period, this restructuring of the economy with this objective of raising self-sustainment, increasing factor income, also achieving.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u68	Thank you very much. We turn to the next answer to Mr Jožet Velinje's question on the operational waste management programme. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u69	This is a question that concerns a very difficult area of waste management, which we know is a considerable backlog in Slovenia on the one hand, and on the other hand we can say that positive movements in the right direction are also taking place in recent years. In particular, I am thinking of raising the separate collection of municipal waste, and on individual projects planned for the absorption of cohesion funds in this perspective there are visible developments. At the beginning of this mandate, as I have already answered one of the questions in the National Assembly, we have also done what you are asking in the light of the use of European resources – we asked ourselves whether the concept as it has been prepared in the past is correct and whether we have properly positioned and properly-divisioned centres for the management of municipal waste. Here we have found relatively quickly that, as with the question, it would be wiser to make this area a state, public economic service. However, this is the situation and we have continued from here on out. This may still be considered thoroughly in the future, as well as a change in the system. As far as dimensioning is concerned, we have received a situation that is as prevailing in Slovenia as it was in the question and in addition stated that we have a complete MBO in Celje, which has 61,000 500 tonnes of capacity. We have quite a few of these projects in implementation through cohesion projects. They are the longest, as we know, in Pomurje Puconca and Koroška, which is in experimental operation and Pomurje is partly in operation and partly in conclusion. A few projects are still in preparation. Then we found relatively quickly that for Western Slovenia, what was in play, from Logatco, southern Primorska, northern Primorska, Ljubljana. It was appropriate to decide to support another centre in this part of Slovenia at the Ljubljana Centre in Nova Gorica. This role is in the final stage of preparation. As for the Ljubljana Centre, which was measured by about 700 000 people working MBO or 150 thousand tonnes, Ljubljana and I have reached an agreement that this MBO is open to those who will not have the problem solved, so let us fill in all these capacities. In other centres, in Zasavje it is smaller in the construction of 9 thousand tonnes, in Slovenska Bistrica they are still struggling with documentation, for Dolenjska the dimensional centre has been converted by 55 thousand tonnes and has decreased to 41 thousand tonnes, so that now that the call for this centre is outside, they must also reach agreement with the municipalities and prepare calculations in view of significantly better sorting. Thus, from the data at the beginning that the game initially had 500 000 tonnes of MBO at the annual level, it had already dropped to 390 thousand tonnes in 2011. From these figures, which I have just mentioned, this capacity is some more than 300 000 tonnes, by carefully monitoring the results of the separate collection of waste over the entire period, and will then be an assessment of the final correct dimensioning. There is also a discussion on the positioning of energy-use facilities for those parts of waste that are energy-efficient for combustion or for energy use. Biologically separated waste is increasing from day to day, so we now have a strong over 40% on the Slovenian average, and 50% is the number we need to reach in line with Europe's proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Big Guy.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u71	In view of the fact that the members of the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment have become aware of this issue during the two meetings of the National Assembly, I am merely thanking the Minister for his comprehensive response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u72	Thank you very much. We turn to the next answer, the answer to Mr Mirk Brulco's question on waste management. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u73	I have read in the question where you were obviously Mirko behind Mr Velenje, and you have also found that the issues are similar. Perhaps what I mentioned earlier has been built up in your question, this is mainly a reflection on prices, price relations and the implementation of this economic public service. As you probably know, at the previous meeting of the Government, we adopted a methodology for price fixing for these services of compulsory economic public services, thus eliminating a number of years of debt in order for local communities and municipalities to calculate the price and adapt it to the situation. I also believe in their judgment in the price rise itself, but at the same time it is also highlighted in this issue whether it would be wise to have this economic public service, which today is a municipal economic service regulated at the level of compulsory public service. For the time being, it is only energy use, incineration is so ranked, while separate waste collection, first waste collection, from here on out waste treatment and also waste disposal is the municipal service. It is also necessary to distinguish here that most congregations perform fairly sovereignly themselves, while this regional arrangement, rationality in these arrangements, is needed for processing and postponing. I have also participated many times at this time, and I have already been a local politician in some kind of discussion, where it is sometimes very difficult to reach rational agreements. We, as I explained in the previous reply, insisted that there could be absolutely no object, dimension of the object, location dependent on ability or incompetence of the agreement, and with only the location then we tried to cover territorial Slovenia. However, I must say that even in view of the position of the Court of Auditors, it is still in serious consideration that if we had a system relatively placed, it is said that the positioning of these key facilities is the proper disposal, disposal, treatment of waste to reconsider at some point, whether we would not go into this arrangement with the public economic service, which means that those who have made this matter in one way would be able to do so also to grant these concessions and from there would have a more uniform system and avoid all these possible speculations that have occurred in the past, and the exploitation of local communities or those who have owned individual landfills. In this part, too, we have made it clear in the very use of cohesion funds that the conditions for municipalities entering such a cell must be relatively equal in order to avoid that someone who later joined would be the hostage of those who had been before. So in this part I think we have managed to take one step further. I am also pleased that the call for the largest waste management centre in Ljubljana has been made, that the contracts have been signed and that, virtually now, with the missing completions of the procedures in Nova Gorica and New Town, we will bring this matter to a close and then really build this in this cohesion period, which can be built, because the new perspective, as it can be felt and known by the level of resources, will be weaker and this area of waste management, except for thermal treatment, should no longer be subject to co-financing with cohesion funds, because it is considered that the period of this introduction is behind us. Therefore, it is imperative to build this infrastructure now, and in this way we have met environmental criteria with this infrastructure, while at the same time it is only cheaper to process it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u74	Here you go, Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u75	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much for your answer. The answer to my colleague Veliki has already made me aware that you have taken a very sober approach to a series of terrible problems that are at your ministry. Also to solve waste collection. Our desire for citizens and citizens is that the price, this cost, is roughly the same. Therefore, it cannot be all dependent, as you yourself have mentioned, on the ability or incompetence of the individual mayor or municipal administration to which someone will direct the transport of these wastes, and that the state or your ministry must take on a role to make this cost as cheap as possible. We know that we have a new price for water, a new price for garbage, a new price for sewage, and here it can also happen that the mayors will swim completely at these prices and burden the family budgets with incredible costs. Thank you for your answer and I wish you great success in solving the waste problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u76	Mr. Minister, would you like to answer any further questions?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u77	I thank you for this position, and also for this desire for the great happiness that will be required here, and I think that wisdom will also be needed in regional environments. But I'm happy to make this comment as soon as the real conversation starts on one side, it starts on the other. I think that we have really managed to get to this and also calculations show and here I think it will still be necessary to complete this first answer by monitoring these results daily. With the establishment of new centres comes the reality and we really try weekly from those who are the longest in this separate collection of waste, the processing of these matters, also to get their data. Part of the activity also takes place outside the centres themselves, where individual municipalities get together, make certain sorties and, in fact, make it as small as possible for the MBA, as few as possible for disposal and recycling as possible and in some way from this particular income, so that the price falls again for the citizens. In this part, there are still a number of these arrangements that we need to regulate in the normative work, but at the same time the various interests that have arisen in waste in recent years, and will also be here when two associations will be completely on different sides within the Chamber of Commerce, if we talk about the details of the Municipal Chamber or any other. This is a difficult job, but I think it is right that there is an increasing number of separate wastes, so that we can achieve these objectives by these dates, which are set and are also a framework for Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The Minister's reply to Mr Dragan Bosic's question regarding the promotion of agricultural products.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u79	The question was aimed at increasing funds for promotion alone and, accordingly, the logical question of what is the promotion plan in the coming years, which are targeted sectors of promotion, whose target groups the country will address, how we will measure the impact. As far as these measures are concerned, let me write them down and break down this number to clarify it. This figure is the sum, amounting to 502 million is the sum of all these promotion measures and activities that we are carrying out within the Ministry and are planned for 2013. Let me break them down. The first is the operationalisation of the law on the promotion of agricultural food products 1.5 million of these public funds; the second is the support to producer groups in activities under the rural development programme of the Republic of Slovenia for the promotion of quality schemes of a million 787 000 to 500; the third is the information and promotion of agricultural products in internal and third markets; the support is EUR 650 000; the support for agricultural and promotion activities in targeted markets with national funds under "de minimis", says state aid of EUR 570 000 and support for promotion in third markets where EU co-financing is also one million. As regards the first activity, promotion, the Law on the Promotion of Agricultural and Food Products. As you know, this year we have adopted an amendment to this law which allows an operational group to be formed within the Ministry, preparing an implementation work on the basis of which it is necessary to agree with those sectors for which this promotion is intended to start also by raising funds. Here the test will be for both the agricultural sector and the food processing industry. As you know, the law stipulates that funds are being collected and that the public can then be added to the areas of milk, meat, fruit, vegetables, cereals, olives, honey, wine. And this is one of the activities that will be crucial in this area. The very activities that will be based on this law go in a direction that has been recognized in my opinion in recent years as correct, saying very direct communication with the Slovenian consumer, clearly highlighting the importance of locally produced food. These activities were also suitable for traditional Slovenian breakfast, which is part of the first day of Slovenian food this year. This is part of the activity that goes into this part of the promotion, while upgrading this quality scheme and achieving greater added value in agriculture. The measurement of these measures by indicators, which are also foreseen, will go in this direction, in order to simply measure what has already been explained, the value of agricultural products in basic prices, is that we see whether we have effects in this part, on the other hand, on the income of the food processing industry, on the income of this export industry, the number of products included in the scheme. It's about important steps, moving. As you can see, for about 14 days, a new product is registered for one month in Europe, in the European Commission, based on the previous certification at home. In this way, we really want to move forward with these activities to raise the consumer's belongings and, above all, to offer and design products with this higher added value. Market research will also go in the direction of seeing how successful we are in achieving these objectives. As far as these quality schemes are concerned, I've already mentioned them. It is a large number of these measures, where European funds are also used, which are co-financed by those preparing them under the Rural Development Programme. It also goes in the direction of these EU quality schemes and also the Republic of Slovenia, towards the production and processing of protected agricultural crops or foodstuffs, wines with designations of origin, integrated production of higher quality, and these promotional funds are intended for this purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u81	Nicely greeted. Thank you for the answer, which I find sufficient and exhausting, but I might be able to connect myself to Slovenian food week or Slovenian breakfast. I wonder if you can add to this here: Is there a possibility, in particular, that this Slovenian breakfast will be extended to Slovenian brunch or that, in terms of promoting agriculture, there are more resources for the promotion of food on the so-called domestic market or those who are growing with this food, which they keep in mind and then seek? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u82	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u83	I am glad that this year we organised this second Slovenian breakfast. As you know, the government also adopted this decision and announced the third Friday in November for the day of Slovenian food. Now we've united this action. In view of last year's experience, when this breakfast took place free of charge for all children and donated food, I must say that in this year's economic situation, including some of the crises in particular sectors, we have encountered a major problem, and finally we have failed to ensure that the food processing industry provides these foods free of charge and to farmers systemically for all schools, as it has been in the past year. I must say that for the past year too, we still had some obligations to regulate and negotiate this year, and I think that now this experience, which I can share after this Friday, is the first time that I can say that it is very good that we are united together, our Ministry, which is responsible for agriculture, the environment, on the other hand, the Ministry, which is responsible for education, education, the Ministry responsible for health, that we have also organised, as part of this action, dedicated to how to share good experiences with the public in Slovenia. The first such consultation was held in Slovenian Konjica on 29 October or 30 October, I apologize, the date was missed, on the very day of Slovenian food in Primorska, and also the model itself, how best to order, on the other hand, as easily as possible to perform these green orders. On the other hand, I can say that schools made voluntary decisions. I don't know if we were cynical when we called for this breakfast. I think that part of cynicism was also in these e-mails, given that I have to say that the vast majority of Slovenian schools organized this breakfast for kindergartens, and this holiday was actually made as a holiday, where children were preparing at the workshops for where they devoted their day to education on this topic. I am firmly convinced and really glad that this day has reached its purpose also on our part. Let me make it public, we've had about 4,000, 5,000 euros for all the flyers, for what we've been preparing together. I thank many who, although not agreed, donated: beekeepers, fruit growers, milk and many articles. There was a connection between those who worked last year, regardless of the fact that we did not promise in advance. As far as this promotion is concerned, all I can add is the importance of the local action group here, which also play a major role in this part with markets and similar activities. I think it's the right way.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u84	Thank you very much. We turn to the reply of Minister Branko Fick concerning the nature parks in Slovenia. It's the two ministers' answers. It'll be a minute and six seconds, and then when it's complete, if necessary. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u85	We're gonna share. As for this issue, I have to say that with the problem that is concrete for the City of Castle itself, we were working at the Ministry as soon as we saw this problem, we had several meetings at our invitation, and finally I received this message that the organizers had only agreed, from the congregation and also to the park, but then in a few days, unfortunately, I also received an answer that this arrangement for this year was not acceptable to those at the local level. I'm very sorry this is happening. That local communities and local regional or municipal public institutions, parks, do not agree, should not really happen. In this case, we will certainly continue our activities to regulate these matters. Surely, it is a basic condition that people can accept parks as a form of protecting our natural cultural heritage, that parks are also involved in a proactive relationship with staying in that space. Surely our beautiful, pristine nature is an opportunity, whether we can take advantage of it or not, but it depends on the people who live here who manage these parks. Therefore, I must say that in Slovenia, some negative cases have been mentioned here, and it is right to point out those who are positive and give results. It is significant for those where the results are that really these parks take some time to get first in people's homes, that eventually people also focus on this development function, which is managed by the parks themselves. I think it is also right to say with data that 13% of Slovenia's territory is in protection and that from the point of view of the country it is also a cost of €3 million per year, so that we have a clear framework and that we have managed approximately €15 million over the last 10 years. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] bring certain funds into the country as well. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u86	Complementary response, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u87	Since there is not enough time, the Minister, the request that was made to the citizens or that I should be concrete, to the societies, amounted to EUR 8 000 for renting the premises. Their gross remuneration per year was 10,000 euros, it is said that there is no mathematics here. But I wanted to talk about the indirect damage caused by tourism, which we agreed with Mr Žerjav last time. The growth of the head of the landscape park to the locals was unfair in this case, not with the objective of economic development, but in communication with citizens, he kept hiding behind the decisions of your ministry and culture. This is the opinion of the citizens. But no matter what, there's been some kind of damage that I can't agree with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u89	As I said before, we have detected this problem for fourteen days, three weeks before the event itself. The Secretary of State met several times and called the responsible. I didn't actually work myself to know these numbers and these things. As I have already said, we must remedy this matter, with one word, and I agree with what has been said in the previous Mags meeting. We're starving. Let's say for example, I live alone in Kozyan Park. The Kozyan apple, which traditionally takes place in Podseda, where this park is established, has gathered more than 150 exhibitors in stands this year, where there should have been exclusively things produced with the hands of people, not only within this park, wider. From year to year, there is a larger visit to these days. Let's say 20,000 people were in two days. Even such a policy has a park, which I also support, that those who live inside the park have that stand, I think there are some €40.50 in this work. I must say that I have been both days at this event, and I know individual societies that have made transport in two days after thousands and more, because this has actually been done as a real market. Another example mentioned here is the Triglav National Park itself. On the day of the tolmin, which was this year in Tolmin, it was very significant when he presented a brand and a very successful quality scheme, upgrade, it is said that very quality milk on the face of the city, says in the Tolmin processing, sale in the form of cheese tolminec, at a price that can also allow farmers a better redemption price than those who process under lighter conditions on the plain, and is indeed an example of good practice and it was encouraging to say that the holder of this protection was a man employed in Triglav National Park, a food technologist. And that, I think, is the direction that we need to encourage and recognize that parks, together with advisory services, along with regional development agencies, together with local action groups, are carriers of that development in a particular environment. And once people recognize those who do something for development in these people, it is also easier to understand why protection is essential in order to expose this development at this point. So I support this thinking that you've given here, and at this point there are a lot of things still to be done, and in the development context, we also put these parks together.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u90	Thank you very much. We are moving on to questions from Members and Members of Parliament, first round. Mrs Alenka Bikar will ask the question of the Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u91	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister! The story of renting new premises of ministries has practically been dragging since 2007 and has finally received its epilogue and the ministry has moved to new, better, larger spaces. According to a new ministry for renting premises in Litostorski, some EUR 3 million is to be paid. If I can only compare, the value of renting old premises has so far been EUR 2.5 million. I must say, in the past, as an athlete employed by the Police, I have had the opportunity to come and visit the premises of Stefano 2. I admit that these rooms have indeed seemed to be long-lasting and out of date, so I believe that the employees are now satisfied with these new premises, and I am sure that the motivation will be even greater now. If you remember, I've asked you this once before. I think it was May. Also, at the end of September, you were asked about the costs by your colleague, Mrs Potrate, and you both said that you have no data yet and therefore you cannot give them. You still owe us or you owe us an answer to a question about the very cost of moving your ministry to new premises. I have to admit, I haven't been able to track this data anywhere, nor in the media. Besides, I know there are a lot of black clouds above you these days, but based on your statements, you will be able to do so, and you will be happy to answer all of our questions – won't you?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u92	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Clouds don't affect anything, so I don't have a problem with the answer. I'm having trouble understanding your question, and I don't want to be inconsistent. You were talking about moving costs, but moving costs are now something else. I'll try if you ask me an additional question, say this part directly if we're talking about moving costs. Look, all the numbers are as follows. In this hall, you know, I've been very critical of my predecessor at the price of rent per square metre of gross land on Dimičeva. On Dimič we paid, so I repeat, 13.47 euros per square meter. This is the last bill we paid. According to the same methodology, for the same area, we pay 12.63 euros for the same services in Lithostrojska. So the price for about one euro is down by a square meter. I would like to stress that this price will be valid for another four years because the situation is that office equipment after five years – a year the building has already been rented, previously by the ILO, now by us – so after four years the price will be 10.70 euros per square meter, because the furniture will go to free rent. But the number of square meters is like this. On Dimič we had 10,000 450, I'm going to round these numbers, in Litostorsky we have the same employees, the same amount of staff on 8 thousand 614 square meters. The number of square meters on Beethoven, i.e. in all the numbers I'm talking about, has not yet counted the number of returned surfaces on Beethoven. The workers on Beethoven are still working there, there's a thousand 970 square meters that will go into the use of some other state authorities, if I recall correctly, I think it's a court of law. But these workers don't go to Lithostrojska until late November or early December. The number of square metres in Litostorski and the total number of all rented is 22 000 square meters. At the locations that we had previously met in Ljubljana, we had 16 thousand 331 square metres, which is not included in Stefan's, which you mentioned to know, but I will explain what Stefan's is. These 16,000 square metres mean the areas that were rented by private parties next to Dimičeva. Of course, it was 100 years old, and it was our equipment and a lot of other things. Now for the rent you were talking about. While you've been quoting the numbers that are on the annual level, I'll try both. The rent for the entire Lithostrojska will amount to EUR 277 000 871 per month and after five years 235 thousand 347 or after four years, given that the furniture goes to free rent. Yes, I also have expenses relating to the entire Lithostrojska, amounting to 3 million 334 thousand. That's this number, you probably meant it when you said over 3 million, and the old rental number was 2 million 800 thousand. However, I would like to point out that no one will think wrongly, we need to know that this is now a new space, it was formerly an old space, and secondly, it is necessary to deduct those premises that we have returned to the country, especially in Beethoven, for which some other state authority, I assume that this court will not pay the rent. Thus, the total costs for objective reasons should then be reduced slightly. I've got all those square feet in front of me if you want. But I have to say, let's say the share of garages, there is a 77.95% garage area without garages, while the garage area is only 22%, as opposed to Dimič's, there was a net surface of 60%, and the garage and other basements were almost 40%. But I'll answer that part if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u94	Complementary. Here you go, supplement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u95	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for these additional explanations. Maybe I did seduce you with my question at the beginning. In fact, I wanted to know the specific cost of moving. You still owe me this part, i.e. the cost of moving the Ministry, but also when you've already established this subject in terms of rental earlier and now, perhaps the question: Do you think it would be wise that, given that bureaucracy and administration are moving away from operational work on the ground, more costs are allocated to offices than police equipment? For example, for that half-million euro we could get better equipment to protect police officers on the ground, for what is called those protective vests. What do you think about the fact that we are on the subject, and what is your position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u96	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u97	Thank you for the additional question, which really makes it possible for me to say certain things. In the premises where you were, this is on Stefan 2, they're still ours and we still use them. We just moved other units into these premises that were previously rented. At Litostrojski we also have the criminalists of the Ljubljana Police Administration, followed exclusively the principle of "return private spaces". Of course, there is a dilemma, and it sounds good to say that 500 000 euros or 400 000 euros could be put in the equipment. All well and good, but I believe that these costs must be seen from the point of view of the state. So far, the country has been paying a little over 2 thousand 800, as we have seen, at the annual level to private owners, i.e. private owners. Today he pays no more to private owners, but he pays himself. This I think is an important and essential difference, and I think so too, and that is why this equipment will not suffer anything because for the next year at least we have in the draft budget when it is confirmed, both for investments and for material costs, a little more resources. Now for the direct cost of moving. Let me explain right away that I said once about this pay phone too, and I think that Mrs Potter, if I'm not mistaken, we're going to drive with our own capacities. And you could see in the media that big car was written up by the Moving Service. Let me make it clear there won't be any mistake. We are exclusively with our capacities, meaning that we have pulled people from the common services from all over Slovenia to Ljubljana and we have done the entire migration alone. About the van you saw, or the truck moving service you saw, the following. My predecessor, Mr Zalar, entered into a contract with a certain migration service in November 2011. This is an open contract, if necessary, as it is called. We used them exclusively and only to move those objects that we don't know or can't. Of course, it is about the iron cashiers and similar things that very hard-earned people, such as a few-ton iron cabinet – are dragging on the stairs. These must really be other people. A quick few more numbers about the direct cost of moving. I don't have them all yet. But I can tell you that we are about information and telecommunications equipment, we are talking about the cables that Mobile has been doing at home, because there is a longer distance than here, to Dimič, 51 000 400 euros have been spent. Then we need to know that we have to pay yet, I think, not yet paid, whitening all the old spaces, cleaning all the old spaces, adjusting the electrical installations, some writing tables. But I don't have these costs yet. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u98	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next question. Mag. Majda Potrat will ask the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u99	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! Mr. Giga Turk, I am addressing the question: How will you take action to enable the Public Institute of RTV to carry out quality public service in the next two financial years? This is not the first time that I have asked you about the Public Institute of RTV, but this is the way to take the initiative to do so under Article 55 of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014, where the amount of RTV contribution is set, which is lower than that RTV contribution, which is set out in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget for 2012. In doing so, I will leave aside the fact that the RTV contribution should be determined by the RTV Act and that this embarrassment continues here. This is the first time there has been no embarrassment or loss of income for the public service within your mandate. However, as things have deteriorated in this mandate, they have not yet been sharpened, I think mainly because the interlocutor has been one who has shown more willingness to understand the limited resources of the public service, which, in accordance with the constitutional rights guaranteed by law, must provide the prescribed scope of public service. We would expect RTV to remain at least the same level as it was now, you are proposing a reduction. The relative reduction of the RTV contribution, the drop in the contribution in January 2011, in particular the fact that it is not yet fully clear for 2013 whether this will be confirmed or not in the National Assembly, and this contribution represents more than two thirds of the RTV Slovenia revenue, the reduction of the minutes for advertising, some of the new obligations of the Radio Television of Slovenia, all raises a serious question whether the Republic of Slovenia has properly financed public broadcasting as required by the RTV Act. I would like to draw attention to the recommendation of the Council of Europe, which speaks of the obligation of members, "to ensure that public broadcasting is adequately and transparently financed so that the decision-making of national authorities should not be used to directly or indirectly influence the editorial independence and institutional autonomy of this organisation. The amount of the contribution should be determined after consultation with public television and in such a way as to enable the full implementation of the tasks and to enable [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u100	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Madam Members have really asked me the same question, which is the question of the same topic already on 24 September. I answered him with a complete response at the time. I stated that I am convinced that the existing RTV Slovenia Act and the way this public institution is financed provide all the conditions for the public institution to continue to fulfil the statutory scope of public service and the mission of the public institution of special cultural and national importance. The Government's decision to reduce the RTV contribution by 10%, which is also implemented in the law on budget implementation, was adopted by the Government at the right time that this public institution could draw up new programming platforms, of course those that would not undermine the scope of public service and business and the mission of the public institution. With the coming year, the RTV contribution will fall from today's 12.75 euros per month to 11.48 euros or at an annual level from 153 to 137 euros. If we multiply this by 600,000 debtors, as much as the RTV contribution has to pay in Slovenia, this will mean about 9 million less for RTV Slovenia, but this is less than 10% in total. With a 10% reduction in resources they have fought, they have to fight, and they have managed to fight all other public institutions in the field of culture, many of them unfortunately with even greater reductions. This contribution is still higher than paid in neighbouring Italy, where the annual RTV contribution of EUR 112 is in the UK, in a country with significantly greater purchasing power, is a contribution to the BBC of €195 per year. But, look, the BBC isn't playing any commercials. In Croatia there is a fee for RTV 80 kuna, which is slightly less than €11 per month. In these new circumstances, the government expects RTV to give priority to domestic programmes in the field of culture, art, science and education. For other programmes, especially when it comes to the transfer of certain international competitions, the purchase of licences, series, sequels and the like, which are not essential for Slovenian culture, their usefulness should be assessed primarily by calculating the financial revenue from advertising for these programmes. The government also expects RTV Slovenia to give priority to the programme for minorities, people with disabilities and others who do not have space in other commercial media and will not implement projects that do not bring any added value. I'm talking about projects, not programs. For some of these development projects, the Programme Council itself is meeting 3. Seven. 2012 found that the management and the supervisory board did not follow the criteria for exploiting the need for development funds. The government also expects the management of RTV Slovenia to fully recover more than €1.7 million of overpaid salaries in its budget in the coming year. If we add to this the savings that RTV Slovenia also provides for Zujf, then this reduction is suddenly not so much. Even if RTV Slovenia removes any of the errors detected by the Court of Auditors, this reduction will be more easily compensated. The claim by the management that a reduction in the contribution of 10 % could lead to a reduction of 30% of the programme does not, of course, hold a serious opinion. By this logic, if the RTV contribution were to be reduced by 30%, then RTV Slovenia would not have implemented the programme at all or could have concluded the other way around. When a slightly less than 10% of the RTV subscription was increased before a good year, 30% of the programme could have been received and no one remembers it. Since nothing has changed since 24 September until today, I do not want to add anything to this reply from the previous meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u102	Here you go, mag. Excess, supplemental response.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you didn't expect me to read what you said last time. And you've read it again. And I'll tell you again. The BBC budget is 4 billion and a half, our TV budget is 120 million. The Constitutional Court has made it clear that the scope of the public service should not be reduced to the account of the new obligations which RTV has. According to legal provisions, new obligations are also charged from the RTV contribution. The RTV contribution, which the director of the Media Directorate calls "communication tax" and points to a relationship, the State Secretary at the Ministry speaks of the fact that the RTV contributors are all account holders of the Elektra account, but it is not true because those with lower income are exempt from the payment of this contribution. I mean, Mr. Secretary, you're making incorrect comparisons. But nothing to do with it. I specifically asked you what measures are taken because there are three sources of funding: RTV contribution, budgetary resources and market activity. We have limited market activity to RTV because we have reduced its advertising time with the amendment in the National Assembly and the European Directive makes no distinction between advertising and market activities between public service and commercial television. So it's up to us. But there are other things. It is simply that you have reduced funds for minority programmes, not to mention at all – yes, this is what the answer says, Mr Minister, look what you have answered and you will see. But you only mention Hungary and Italy, not the Roma community at all. So my question is once again: How will you ensure the same scope of the public service as the measures? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u105	Madam Member knows for sure that the public service provides the institution of RTV Slovenia, whose business decisions by the Government and policy have no effect whatsoever. The last time I replied to you, and now again I answer you that we are assessing that the reduction of funds is not so great and that, with the appropriate rationalisation of RTV Slovenia, it would be possible to organise its mission to the extent that it has carried out so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u106	Here you go, mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u107	Thank you. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on the reply of Minister Žiga Turk. So far, not all of my calls for debate on this issue have come across understanding in the National Assembly. Once again, I believe that it is necessary to discuss whether public service can indeed be provided to the same extent as the law imposes under the given financial circumstances. Some of the indicators for this are that it will not be possible to do so. And the answer exactly with regard to the programme of both national communities, constitutional minorities in Slovenia, suggests that the budget will be reduced. Whether it's possible or not, it's a deal. I really refer to the agreement reached by the Ministry and both representatives of the self-government communities, Hungary and Italy. There are other things to talk about when we talk about public service. The country funded a new state television via Telekom. A lot has happened with regard to Zujf, which was also referred to by Mr Minister when contracts with individual operators for the implementation of the programme were limited. The Ministry has skillfully used the Court of Auditors report relating to 2009 and 2010. At the time, leadership was in some purely different hands, and the government in the previous term listened to the programming board and increased the RTV contribution. Of course, it is difficult to calculate because there was a fundamental argument why Grims's law should be supported, a reduction in the RTV subscription. If we give up so easily on public television, if we are willing to raise VAT for printed media, if we are willing to listen peacefully to what the RTV contractors have to say, although a programme of employment for those who show signs of working relationship has been prepared, all of this is impossible in these circumstances. I think it's time to hold this debate because the institution is unevenly burdened and twice affected: with the usual measures and also with the reduction of RTV [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u108	Thank you very much. The proposal to hold a debate on the Magi proposal. Majda Potrat, we will vote when the vote is over. We move on to the next question. Mrs Alenka Koren Gomboc will ask the Minister for Infrastructure and Space Mr Zvonk Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u109	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Minister of Infrastructure and Space Mr Zvone Černač! The latest floods that hit Slovenia have caused enormous damage and have affected a huge number of people. I am of the opinion that this time Podravje, the upper estuary and the Carinthia region have suffered the greatest harm, which will require more measures to remedy the situation on individual parts of the main and regional roads as soon as possible. Thousands of people, firefighters, police officers, civil protection, soldiers, according to data from the Department of Protection and Rescue. They tried to save people, property and access all the locations and transportation of roads and to secure threatening beaches. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also responded quickly and effectively, as the first financial assistance it promised during the visit to the affected country, despite the difficult financial situation in the country, has already begun to pay and has thus proven once again that people have an advantage over everything. For the most urgent, the most intervention measures were allocated €10 million. According to the State Road Infrastructure, there is considerable damage to roads by the State Directorate. The figures so far, when all the damage has not yet been definitively described and assessed on the ground, cannot be spoken of. We know that a small part of the rehabilitation of state infrastructure is already under way, especially in the area of minor injuries and the removal of floods. Dear Minister: When and how effectively can further action be expected to remedy the damage caused and what will be the priorities for the rehabilitation of the transport infrastructure? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u110	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u111	Thank you very much for this question and a nice greeting to all present! In that week, the Prime Minister and his colleagues also looked at the consequences that were really great. The gross estimate is that the entire recovery will require more than EUR 200 or 210 million and will take some time. Nearly 3,000 apartment buildings were affected by these floods, many thousands of economic buildings. As a result, the government, at its meeting on 8 November, adopted certain decisions aimed at eliminating the most urgent consequences of these floods in the same week. At this meeting, the government found that the activation of professional and voluntary firefighters, in particular volunteer firefighters, civil protection, other voluntary and professional rescue services of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the Police, public economic companies and other services and bodies, particularly those operating different infrastructures at all levels of management, while increasing watercourses, solving and remedying the consequences of flooding in a timely manner. Their work is organised, focused and effective. In the implementation of the protection of rescue and assistance in order to ensure the basic conditions for life in the affected areas, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular to all citizens and voluntary firefighters, who at that time quickly and unselfishly helped, gave special recognition. As part of the Government's decisions, the Ministry of Finance was tasked with drawing up a proposal for a decision on the reimbursement of emergency intervention costs once they were complete. It was estimated that approximately €10 million should be provided for the most urgent intervention measures in the areas of watercourses, public and municipal roads and other infrastructure this year. As the first two most urgent measures taken following the decision of the Government on 8 November, one has already been mentioned, namely, to allocate the first intervention funds to both humanitarian organisations, Karitas and the Red Cross, each of which is €750,000 each, so that the affected population will be provided with what it needs as soon as possible and that the distribution of the necessary material and financial resources takes place in cooperation with the municipalities. In order to ensure the most urgent interventions in the field of affected companies, the first funds amounted to EUR 4 million 400 000. The Government has also found that the tax legislation in force allows taxable persons who are in exceptional difficulties to pay their tax obligations to be cancelled or postponed, which will take place in accordance with the Ministry of Finance’s instructions or regulations. The government also noted that the project for the construction of embankments on the Drava River in the Duplek Municipality area was included in a set of projects to be financed from cohesion malt in 2013 and commissioned the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment to speed up this project or its implementation. Of course, the Government has also decided at this meeting to obtain a final assessment of the resources needed to address the consequences of these floods on the basis of the censuses carried out by the competent ministries and all municipalities and on this basis, and to adopt an operational programme for both this year and the following year. It will mainly be a programme for the following year, given that, as you have already mentioned, this most urgent intervention work in the rehabilitation of damaged economic facilities and residential facilities, as well as state and local road infrastructures, is already taking place. It is normal that the priorities are to clean up everything that can be cleaned with some minor means first, the second priority is to ensure the transportability of all communications that are urgently needed, and the third priority is to ensure their recovery and long-term transport in those communications that have been hit harder, while the remaining work must be carried out on the basis of the adopted programme under the funds to be provided for in the following year. Road State infrastructure is estimated at approximately EUR 25 million and around EUR 700 000 per rail, with the majority of these funds being provided from insurance since this network has been secured against this threat and, in the case of State road infrastructure, one part from intervention funds and one part from the corresponding reallocations under existing programmes. Something similar will happen in the area of the local road network, where the damage is likely to be much higher.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u112	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Jožef Kavtičnik, who has a question for the Minister of Finance, Dr Šuštersič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. What has been happening in our country lately could be a good scenario not only for one, but for more Hitchcock horrors. The missing signatures of citizens and citizens indicate the beating of democracy, the disregard and disrespect of Parliament's decisions by the government or individual minister, and the breakdown of the political system. All of this only deepens our economic crisis. Dear Minister! On 18 June 2012, at its 16th extraordinary session, the National Assembly adopted the Guarantee Act for a loan of 440 million for the construction of TEŠ 6. The government then imposed TES and HSE to meet some of the conditions, and this was done, so the guarantee was given. To date, four months have passed, and on the government or you, a respected minister, have failed to write contracts for drawing or using credit. It's a real shame. The explanations you gave to the media are medlar and are not worth commenting on. The importance of building TES 6 for our self-sustainment with electricity was discussed at the Committee on Finance, the Committee on the Economy and also in this National Assembly. I'm sure there's very few people here who object. All the necessary information that you could obtain or need in order to draw up or write this contract could be obtained from a colleague of Viszak or colleague Bogovic, who has been involved in the control of this construction and energy in general since 2006. The consequences of your crime will be disastrous for our country. If the least black scenario comes true, you deserve a criminal complaint at the time of interpretation. I'll give it to you. Although no one would have stopped the construction in any country, since more than €600 million had already been invested, this treaty has not yet been prepared. I'm asking you: Why are you hesitating with this contract? When will the guarantee contract for the construction of the TER 6 block be written, signed and sent for ratification to the National Assembly? Alstom's retreating because he can't pay his subcontractors. Many subcontractors are also from Slovenia and thus are forced by some in the most horrendous way, that is to say bankruptcy. The EIB and the EBRD withdraw their withdrawal from the contract and thereby auction further construction. Please, if I'm [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u114	Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u115	Nicely greeted. Thank you for your question. I would not comment on the broader context with which you started, because I don't think it has anything to do with the question you asked. As for what we are doing at the Ministry of Finance that this contract is not yet ready, I would like to tell you first that the contract is not something that is being prepared, but something that is being concluded and signed by several parties. This is not the paper that the MF writes, that is, something that needs to be coordinated and that must also be in line with the law that speaks of guarantee. Let me remind you, the law has not granted the guarantee, the law has only given the government the authority to conclude the guarantee agreement. So you said somewhat improperly that the guarantee had already been given. Another time. What's the Ministry of Finance doing? The reason that this contract has not yet been concluded is precisely that the Ministry of Finance is doing exactly what it has to do, and it is doing very seriously and carefully. We do not intend to sign a contract for one of the biggest guarantees in the history of Slovenia with closed eyes, so we will look away only because the law that gives this possibility has been passed. This law, as you well know, you probably voted for it, instructs the Ministry of Finance to conclude a guarantee agreement with appropriate insurance. When we looked at what insurance can Holding Slovenian power plants for this contract, we found that the struggle is few. In the end, they were practically left at the table with a blank bill. Bianca's bills are something that would require a lot of people in this room to prosecute a member of some bank's board if only on the basis of the Bianca's notes did he say credits or guarantees. It's a very risky and sort of insurance policy. This is actually what we have been doing for quite some time, looking for different options, and in the end, as Minister of Finance, together with my colleague, the Minister of Infrastructure, who must sign this contract with me, will ask the Government whether it is willing to take such a risk or not. And that's what kept my answers going so far, because I didn't want to talk about these things that could potentially damage the reputation of this company and the whole project very directly in the public eye. But if you've already asked me, I just answered. Second thing. All details with the European Investment Bank, which is also a partner in this matter, are also not harmonised. We also align the clauses of the contracts with them, so that the guarantors will benefit most from them. This is said when these things are settled when we realize that we have reached the best possible guarantee agreement, which will certainly not be very convincing and very firm, we will also sign or do all the necessary procedures. It is not just about signing, it is also about ratifying international treaties, because it is an international guarantee treaty or a loan, so you will decide again in the National Assembly. I hope that I have been able to explain to you at least that we are taking the matter seriously, that we are not seeing only its good wages, that we are not only seeing these threats, which have been repeating themselves for two years. Almost every month, we get some notice that if something doesn't happen the next day, the whole thing will go down. Such a repetition of these threats is, of course, somewhat damaging to their credibility, you must admit. But when we assess that we have achieved the best we can in these negotiations, then we will continue the process. But I think it'll be soon.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u116	Do you have a request for a supplement? Here you go, Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u117	Thank you very much for the first part of the answer. Look, the National Assembly ordered a contract. I think it's clear here. We are the legislative branch of authority that instructs you – the government to do something. And that's what you'd expect to do. This isn't about a few cents down or up. Look, by the end of the year, there's gonna be a show for over 30 million, that's for six schools. Not to mention the scenarios that you yourself mentioned, the recapitalisation of HSE 600 million budget money or the entry of a strategic partner into the company's ownership structure, which would probably mean the acquisition of HSE, or the suspension of the investment and thus the irreparable consequences for TES, for HSE, the coal mine and for the whole country. All of this could also mean a 3 billion-dollar increase in this investment. I didn't make that up. But if we don't believe banks like the EIB and the EBRD that are predicting a withdrawal from the contract, then I don't know who else they could believe, because they said so. That's why I'm interested, and please say: Under what scenario do you intend to continue building TEŠ 6, because you have cited the scenarios?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister, supplemental
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u119	Now, just so we're clear. The National Assembly did not order the Government or the two ministers to conclude a contract, but it also imposed conditions in this law, such as contract insurance, and I spoke about this earlier. So he didn't charge me just to do something, but he also told me to be careful how I do it. And that's exactly what I'm doing. As for the costs you're talking about. Do you know what the greatest cost is and far the greatest risk? The far greatest cost and far greatest risk is that due to the referendums that have been submitted, the country's credit rating will fall so deep that its guarantee will not be worth nothing. Then it doesn't matter whether we give it or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Another procedural proposal, Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u121	Of course, we're not going to talk about a few million here, but this is about the biggest investment in our country. Since the further fate of the construction of TES 6 is not only a local problem and it will not be a problem, and it will become a problem for all citizens and citizens of our country, I propose that we hold a debate on the Minister's response to the Council of State in the second paragraph of Article 246. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u122	Thank you very much. We will decide on your proposal in the context of the votes. Now, with your question, it's mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, who has a question for the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister! "This shame must end. We demand the immediate regulation of our status and the call for concessions. Let us tell the State that we are its citizens the people we deserve to say goodbye to from life in a dignified way." The message is very clear. In 2003 it was also clear and from the conclusions of the Slovenian Medical Society Assembly that palliative care must also become an equivalent and independent content of the health system in Slovenia, such as palliative care in many Western European countries, a priority in national strategic programmes and financing. I'm sure you both know exactly what the situation is in our country today. For the first time in 2007, an application for a health-care concession was formally submitted, specifically to the Ministry of Health, which then formally ensured that, due to the lack of such services and accommodations and to the great needs, this is a priority for the Ministry. In 2007, this was why Hospic was expected to be involved at the Ministry at the time by granting a 2009 concession, which of course did not happen. At the same time, a project was carried out at the Ministry of Health for the preparation of the state's palliative care programme. The final document also referred to the definition of the national network of providers of palliative care at Hospic House. The Ministry of Health then forwarded a proposal for this programme without mentioning Hospic House and it happened that the Government adopted such a national palliative care programme in April 2010. Despite all the complications, we have this house in our country. But since they then transferred responsibility from the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, as in our country's practice, today we face serious warnings. Funding is not provided. The hospica programme is financed from donations, one part also from the City Municipality of Ljubljana. As this money appears to be gone or because of the crisis of this money, I ask both ministers, and therefore I believe that they are aware that they have previously addressed requests or letters from Hospice to the Ministry: Or when and when will the ministries of interest systematically arrange for palliative care or concrete financing of the hospice programme?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Minister Gantar will be the first to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u125	Good-bye, everyone. Thank you for asking. We've talked about this before, I think, here too. I think it's an assessment of a great shame, but it's still a little exaggerated. In fact, hospice deals with one difficult group of patients, who, of course, are officially unable to help them, and are receiving mainly some psychosocial care from hospice. In fact, hospice provides approximately a good percentage of patients who die a year. Most of the others die either at home, in hospitals, in nursing homes. We're really talking about a small number, even though it's no less important. On the other hand, we need to know that the health system deals with all patients also in the framework of palliative care and that this national strategy or national programme has already been adopted. These patients are treated either in acute or inadvertent treatment in the framework of palliative care. Here I have to correct that in most countries the activity carried out by hospice is not financed under compulsory health insurance. This is an area similar to the regulation of the work of healthcare professionals within the home for older citizens. I think that there is a proper agreement and a strategy in progress, and I think that there is a national social protection programme, which will also allow this society to pursue a short-term hospitalisation and health care concession. Only this will enable her to keep an eye on the subject. After all, this is now taking place without any control and we cannot exercise it. Of course, this will mean the same problem as it does in homes for older citizens, given that they accept concessions or are issued by another ministry and that they charge health bills, which is a relatively unabated sum in the case of hospice. However, if we continue in the same way, this could change significantly, and the medical bills will need to be considered in the same way. It is our view that it would make sense to regulate this issue of palliative care in the form of psychosocial assistance, particularly within the framework of a home for older citizens, where health care already exists where doctors are and are not talking about healthcare. This will also require some additional resources, while the establishment of new institutions for this purpose, especially at this time, I do not think it makes sense. However, I believe that this issue, if we are talking specifically about hospice, will be resolved now by the adoption of a general agreement or by the adoption of this national programme first and then the award of a concession. It'll probably be early next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u126	Minister Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Allow me to point out on this occasion that this is not the only case when we are dealing with uncovered things from the past with our colleague Gantar. This is said to have built something, started to work, and eventually it became clear that there was no financial resources for it. Hospice isn't the only thing. And the joy of our service is also that we are solving such problems in the situations we have with regard to public funds. We are aware that this problem needs to be solved. The proposal for a national social protection programme is currently being put forward in public debate. In the context of this proposal, we also want to regulate this matter, so we will systematically regulate it on the basis of a call for proposals that will be published after the adoption of this national programme. We will do so in cooperation with both ministers, as financial resources are also later related to both ministries.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Are you asking me to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Look, because what I wanted was actually to get the assurance that the functioning of hospic is one of the priorities of both ministries in the future. The Minister of Health was talking about psychosocial assistance. I find it difficult to agree that our country will offer psychosocial assistance to an individual at these difficult times within the home of the pensioners. Retired homes are being overrun today. And as we all know, even within hospitals, these people don't get the help they need. And this has also proved to be one of the most important gains for the country or society in the world where hospice or hospice programs are being implemented. That is why I said earlier that if we close the only hospice house in Slovenia, it can be a great shame for our country, which I believe, regardless of the situation we are in, it must end. And if you allow me, I am aware of the draft national social protection programme by 2020 and also of the possibility of granting a concession for the operation of the Hospice House. However, I would like to make sure that, as decided by the Management Board of this house, if they do not get serious guarantees for funding for next year, they will unfortunately have to close the door at the end of the year. And by the way, I say that the application for the invitation to tender is not sufficient, as this year's house was signed up for the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs's invitation to tender for the psychosocial part of the programme, and unfortunately the financial resources were not received and also fell out of FIHA funding. Therefore, once again, I would like to make sure that this is the priority of both ministries, and this is also related to funding in the coming year.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u131	I think we've both been clear enough with our colleague Visian to make this financing, specifically for Hospice, a window of glass. But once again, I must say that I disagree with your findings. Patients in need of palliative treatment receive it today. They get it in hospitals, and I actually think it's unfair for health care when you mention it isn't. Once again, Hospic provides approximately 1% of patients. Most patients are either in their homes, including in hospitals, much at home, and need at times when official medicine can no longer help them, especially what is the content of hospice, not health care. And we are aware of this need. Of course, it is also necessary for properly trained people to be able to speak to these people and to facilitate their final hours of life, which is not just the primary role of healthcare. That's why we're making a deal and this will be resolved. However, if we are realistic, what are the possibilities in the coming years, I think that the possibility that we are talking about is that some bed facilities and adequate health care will be provided, the most realistic in the case that I have also told you. Last but not least, the home network is relatively good today in Slovenia. There are areas where it is slightly worse, and above all there is a fact, of course we are aware of the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Minister Gantar. Mag. Tavš, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I will, of course, take advantage of this opportunity given to me by the Rules of Procedure and propose that the reply of both ministers be discussed. Unless otherwise, we should all find out that we speak the same language, Minister. I don't know if you agree with me or if you can't agree with me because I come from the opposition. In the final stages, we talked about the same things. We both find that in these difficult times [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u134	I ask you very much not to dispute this procedural proposal with the Minister, because he has responded, and we are now in the process proposal you have already tabled. Please don't be argumentative.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u135	Thank you so much for the heads-up, Madam President. I just want to explain that we are both in the same position with the Minister and we are thinking in the same direction. People need more in these difficult times than just health care or a bed in a retirement home. And that's what Hospic is offering them right now. Psychosocial assistance, which is not adequately regulated in the field of legislation in our country. That is why I think it makes sense to have a broader debate, including to see which direction the national social protection programme or health programme will take us in the future, because it is so much more meaningful, given the limited financial resources we are facing in our country. And there's only one thing that might stop us from knowing how expensive social is and how expensive it is for the country to operate this house. They only need €450 000 at the annual level. If this is too much for the state budget, then it is best to close the country. As has already been said, I propose a procedural proposal to hold a broader debate on the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u136	Thank you very much for this proposal. We will vote on it in the context of Wednesday's vote. Now it's mag. Truda Cinderella with a question for the Minister of Labour. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u137	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! At the 5th regular session of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons on 6 September, we discussed the proposal for a law on personal assistance, which was tabled by YHD – the Society for the Theory and Culture of Handicap based on five thousand signatures of electorates and voters. At the meeting of the Committee, it was decided that the proposal for a Personal Assistance Act was not suitable for further consideration. That decision would also be voted on at the 6th ordinary meeting of the National Assembly on 24 September. A decision was also adopted at the meeting of the parent working body with the following content: "The Committee proposes that the Government prepare a coordinated proposal for a personal assistance law by the end of the year." Dear Mr. Minister: I ask you, what activities are being carried out at the Ministry in connection with the drafting of the Personal Assistance Act? But above all, I want to know: Will the proposal be prepared in due time so that it can be placed on the agenda of the December Assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Minister Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u139	In short, the answer is yes to the first. On the other hand, it's not. It says, not December, but it will be ready in December, but it will not go to the December session. Why? The proposal will be prepared in December and also sent to the public in accordance with the decision of the home working body. I think it is right that such a proposal should also be made by all those who are tanning them and at the same time making comments on this proposal. But let me talk a little bit more about that. Personal assistance is one of the organised support to disabled people. It exists in Slovenia and has been known and implemented for many years and is financed through the Ministry's programming funds, the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations and also local communities. We were aware in the previous mandate that a systemic solution should be drawn up that would not be subject to this programme funding, so a proposal for legislation was made in the wider section, where YHD also participated. In the end, YHD no longer agreed with the conclusions of this section and submitted its law with the signatures of the electorate and electorate. This marriage was also under consideration, and you mentioned it. We have one key problem with this bill. It is that there is no broad consensus among those to whom it is intended. Most disabled organisations do not agree with this solution, so I also welcome the decision of the National Assembly to reject this proposal and to give the Ministry the task of preparing a new, better one. We are preparing it, it will also be ready in December and will be mediated, as I mentioned, in a public debate. At that time, there will be an exchange of views on this proposal, both professionally and interestingly, which does not mean that the financing of this same service is not regulated in the future. And maybe a little bit more about it. We will provide funds for the continued smooth implementation of personal assistance under the Assistant/Assistance Programme for 2013 and 2014. The invitation to tender has already been published on the website of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment on 9 November. The call for funds totalling €5 million, which will also allow the employment of approximately 270 assistants. I would like to say that, despite the fact that there is still a step towards a systemic solution, we have secured financial resources and also funding in line with the scale as so far as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk only, the question for the Minister of Infrastructure and the premises of Mr Zvonk Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u141	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Last week, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted an updated draft budget for 2013 and 2014, together with a plan for development programmes by 2016. In this regard, I am interested in: What are the priority projects on the fourth development axis under the budgets for the next two years and in the development programme plan? Can we count on European funds to implement these projects? At the July extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, Prime Minister Janez Janša, in the context of the report on unfinished strategic state projects, pointed out that at a time when financial drought and when investment funds are largely limited to European funds, we are obliged to do everything we can to remove all those obstacles that prevent or make it difficult for at least these funds to be used usefully. At the same time, the President of the Government mentioned that there are most strategic delays in the area of space and infrastructure, including in the context of the fourth development axis, I am adding this by mentioning only the link between the Cerkno-Gorenja village, which has been placed in the premises since 2006 or the problem of land repurchase on the Želen – Most in Soča. On my similar issue in June this year, you also spoke about the need to modernise and upgrade the state road network, to plan for this year some kind of national programme for the period up to 2020, within which you will prepare precise timetables and financial resources for the implementation of the necessary and planned projects so far. You also pointed out that without the European funds these plans could not be implemented. What are the priority projects in the area of the fourth development axis? How is the preparation of the national programme? I would like to thank Minister Chernač in advance for his reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u142	Thank you for asking. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u143	Thank you very much for that question. As far as the perspective is concerned, 2007-2013, we are relatively limited in the planning and use of this money, at least as regards the main cohesion programme of the OP ROPI, where the priorities have somehow been defined in the period leading up to the start of this government's mandate and we are also obliged to follow them. Under this programme, we have the greatest difficulty in investing in the modernisation of railway infrastructure because projects are too weak or are not ready for such a point so that projects can be implemented smoothly during this period. I said at one of the previous meetings that in this area, as regards the OP ROPI, less than 20% of the funds foreseen have been spent by this year, and we are in fact in the last year of this financial perspective. In this context, we are quite limited in the reallocation of these funds, and we must do everything we can to ensure priority spending in areas for which these funds have also been allocated and earmarked under this programme. As regards the area of road infrastructure, the biggest problem in the dynamics envisaged was the fact that over the last two years many construction workers have faced difficulties and that is why some projects have been implemented in a different timeframe than originally envisaged. We are also eliminating these problems to the greatest extent possible, and we are counting on more than all the funds envisaged in this area. However, in the next financial perspective 2014-2020, we would not be in a similar situation today in 2018 and that it will be possible to use funds in some normal dynamics throughout the entire period of this financial perspective, in conclusion this programme of preparation for the development of investment in transport infrastructure, which has unfortunately stalled more than I myself wanted, because I underestimated this problem, but will be completed by the end of this year, by the end of this year it will also be considered in the government procedure. The aim of this programme is to ensure some normal dynamics in the preparation of projects and also in the use of funds for them in this financial perspective, and to also anticipate those projects that are of a longer-term nature that will be implemented after 2020 until 2030 and beyond. With regard to specific projects on the fourth development axis. The largest project to be implemented in the coming year is the reconstruction of the main road Bača-Dolenja Trebuša, approximately 6 kilometers long. The value of this project is around €10 million. The call is under way, so we're counting on it to start next year. Given the complexity of the project, the implementation itself will take more than a year. Then there is a project called Gorenje village, approximately 620 meters long. The value of this project is around €5 million. We also plan to publish the call for proposals in the framework of this project at the beginning of next year. The largest project under these development programmes, however, is the reconstruction of the main road of Dolenje Trebuš – Želin at 11.2 km long section, where the amount of funds is estimated to be somewhat less than EUR 30 million. In order to implement these projects, we also anticipate the use of funds from the European Union funds, as well as the implementation of all other projects to be followed on the 4th development axis. In particular, I have in mind the future bypass, on which the adoption of the State Spatial Plan, the Tolmin Oblast, is currently under way, then the reconstruction of the main road G 2-102/1038 Bača – Lower Trebuša, and also this connection, which you, honourable Member, spoke about, where an appropriate solution should be found from the point of view of the course of the route. Due to the fact that these appropriate solutions are not yet in sight, this placement is somehow moving away, but I am sure that the efforts we will make in this process will lead to the conclusion of this framework in the following year.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Do you require a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. I would really appeal to you to decide what to do with the connection between Cerkni and Gorenje village or Hotavljavi. This section has been placed in the premises since 2006, when Janez Podobnik was Minister of Environment and Space. In 2010, the Government adopted or endorsed the most optimal route on the inter-departmental, inter-ministerial coordination route, North 2, which runs along the Kopačnica Valley. I would suggest that all these options be optimised as soon as possible and that an ideal project for this route be prepared as soon as possible, so that funds for this project can be drawn up at least in the next financial perspective. In addition, I would like to ask if you can do so in writing if you do not have this information here, because these are more detailed projects: How is the installation of the carriageways: Lower Idrija, Godovic, Hotedršica? When will the Roads Directorate begin upgrading the section between Idria and Lower Idria? Are the complications related to the bishop’s carriage already resolved? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Minister, will you explain? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u147	Thank you very much. As regards the latter, the invitation to tender was reopened. The final choice of the contractor is in progress. If there are no specific audit requests and surprises, this project can proceed smoothly, I must say that for about the investment assessment as defined at the outset. About the Cerkno-Hotavlje connection. In addition to the professional arguments, in addition to the selection of routes that follow some professional origins, placement in the environment of such projects is extremely important. This is also why there is such a long timeline in this particular case where there are different interests in different environments and different ideas about what such communication should mean in the future. However, I said earlier that I am counting that in the following year, based on professional arguments and on the harmonisation of different opinions, we will also be able to optimise one of the individual routes to the conclusion of this process. Regarding specific projects: otherwise I have them here, but it would take some time to search through the file, and we will answer you in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek has a question for the Minister for Economic Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u149	Nice greetings to everyone, especially Minister Zerjav! Minister, it'll be a year soon, since you've been Minister of, I think, a very important department. That's why I'm asking you: How many new jobs were created in Slovenia at this time? You can let go of those cabinets. Is that 500, 1,000, 5,000, 10,000? The information we have at our disposal shows something completely different. This is that jobs are reduced from month to month or from day to day. I believe that you still remember that your statement, that no government or you are not Santa Claus – which of course we know you are not – but when we talked about saving Primorje and about, together with subcontractors, a little more than 3,000 jobs, I hope that you know that Slovenia has left one or two less than 8 thousand people by the end of September this year; 8 thousand young people, highly educated people, for whom Slovenia has paid for education, have left Slovenia because they do not see the future, they have no place to work. I think the last time the top of the economy told you something very similar. I do not agree with the answer or with the Government President's statement that trade unions have said something completely different than the economists have said; we all explain to you that, at this moment, new jobs are the most important, that no reform we are preparing will save us from this crisis unless there are any new jobs. It says: How many have been created so far, and what are your plans for the future?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Zerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u151	Thank you very much. As many of them have been created to date, I do not have this data, but I know, given that the number of unemployed does not change substantially, that they were probably as much created as they were on the portal, given that the number of unemployed does not change significantly. Otherwise, it has been said today that the Government is leading activities in two directions. One direction is, of course, the consolidation of public finances, which is so attacked, that we save too much, by the way, even Hollande has recently come to realize that without saving on the one hand it will not work. On the other hand, we are carrying out many activities related to measures to promote economic growth, which we share in approximately two directions, again. One of these is the normative part, i.e. measures to improve the business environment, which is quite something at this time on the table, but they are very important and I hope that we will be able to resolve them collectively for the good of the Slovenian economy – we will continue in this area in the future. On Friday at the Committee on the Economy meeting, when we have addressed the problems in construction, I have already said that we are preparing a new, fourth package, which we will also try to define in substance with the Chambers, and that is why we will continue the dynamics of the adoption of packages in the future. But my focus on today's response is based on investments; investments are key. We have two types here; one is investment in the real sector and here I would like to provide some concrete data. On the last call for foreign direct investment, we confirmed 15 investments worth, about, slightly less than €37 million, which will create 507 jobs. We have supported virtually all the investments that have been supported through the Commission which has reviewed this. They all got their support, and I think they did. In accordance with the special procedure of the Law on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investment, we have four major investments currently under consideration, amounting to more than €750 million, which are expected to create a thousand 500 to two thousand jobs, but these matters are still pending and I would not like to prejudge that this is already a real matter or any other way. It is important that the interest of foreign direct investors in Slovenia exists. Of course, political stability does not help us to acquire these investments and is a barrier rather than that foreign investors should choose to invest in Slovenia. As you may have noticed, I am also taking the initiative to acquire some foreign direct investment in the automotive industry, with one I have failed, with the other I will have to do a lot more to possibly happen, but also here we are not dealing with political instability. I also had two investors in my office on Friday who are interested in foreign direct investment in Slovenia. In short, it's an interest. However, as regards public investments, and I divide them into large and small, so-called small public investments, as we have calculated the value of the 2013 and 2014 budgets of investment, which are more or less of all construction investments, is the value of the dedicated funds for more than a billion. Thus, of course, investments will be made in public infrastructure. The problem at this point is large public infrastructure investments, which are clearly linked to the problem of putting these facilities into space. I believe a colleague of the Minister of Infrastructure will do [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] And more so that you will be placed as soon as possible. [[...]] As you know, in the third – then I will continue. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Do you have a supplementary question or will you ask for clarification? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u153	Dear Minister! I am glad that you have finally said that saving is on the one hand and that there is something else to be done, because so far we have listened only and exclusively: saving. As the number of employees or unemployed decreases, I will say statistical exercise on how to delete someone from the list. The fact is that the unemployed and hungry in our Slovenia are unfortunately becoming more and more. 200 measures, 3 packages – unfortunately, there is no effect so far. In a year or six months, if you're still a minister, I'll check out how many new jobs will then be created, but I'd expect some numbers today. To avoid thinking that we are just smart, I will read to you the quote: "The great recession that started in 2007 has lasted for five years," – 2007, not 2009, 2007 – "and it has lasted for five years. It's not like she's finished yet. There are increasingly fewer jobs and more and more unemployed. It's a tragedy. Should we just accept it? No!" The American economist and Nobel laureate Paul Krugman speak out loud. We know these situations, and we know how to save them. We only lack political will to act. There's also a book. Absolute saving is important, but much more important is before that, dear Minister, if we really want to save our economy and create new jobs.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u154	Thank you very much. That was a comment, but still, Minister Žerjav, please choose a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u155	I am also pleased that you have said today that saving is important and necessary. Without this, of course, the consolidation of public finances cannot in any case be because it is necessary to work on both sides, which you have confirmed today and that is the same. You know very well when we talk about the effects of individual measures, individual changes to laws – and you know this very well, given that you have worked for a long time in public administration, at the Ministry of Finance, you have also been preparing, perhaps, to participate in some law – that it takes time to assess the individual effects of individual laws. For example, if we are talking about a law that, in my opinion, was very important for attracting foreign investment, about a law amending corporate income tax, this effect will — you know, when? When the year is over and then they will be able to take into account the reliefs that have been introduced and so on. But look what I was going to say. I was talking about big infrastructure projects and the problem of putting into space. Let me stress that in the third package we have foreseen the adoption of 10 state spatial plans, that there is a lot of movement here and that things are definitely moving faster, because this is the basis that we can even begin to talk about starting to build large infrastructure projects, of course then the preparation of documentation and everything, but the problem that we still have and is not resolved to the end is the issue of investment. We financed the motorway cross at the beginning exclusively from the state budget because the matter was running too slowly and because the traffic problems were too big, we changed the funding and we went to finance with credits. The problems we face and will have to be solved in the years to come. This is also why I do not see any possibility that large infrastructure facilities, if you want a second track, would be financed solely by borrowing, but by some system, in any case by some new funding system. As you know, in this direction, the possibility of checking the award of Slovenian motorways into concessions is also being prepared, in order to result in capital for construction of some of the development axes. If I draw the line, we will continue with the frequency of the adoption of the package to promote economic growth. I hope there's as little blockage as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u157	If it is already necessary to start in this order, although it does not contain anything, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246, I propose that we hold a debate on how many new jobs were created during the time of Minister Žerjev. The fact is, we didn't get that answer today. The minister will be able to prepare by next time and tell us the number. I am pleased, however, that the Minister has made it clear and clear that there is still something essential to create new jobs in addition to saving. Minister, maybe instead of three packages and 200 measures, now the fourth measure, I don't know, with 100 measures, could be five or ten such measures that would have immediate effects.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u158	Thank you very much. We will vote on your proposal in the framework of the votes. The next question is Mr Žveglic. He has a question for the Minister of Justice and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! The current state of our public finances is alarming and it is therefore necessary to cut down as much as possible on the reduction of budgetary expenditure, including at the expense of the work of public servants. These include transport costs for work, in which the Public Finance Balance Act has already partially affected. However, more than reducing the amount of transport costs to work, its abuse is problematic, as it still exploits a large number of public servants to recover transport costs in such a way as to report as a basis for calculating the costs the address of the place of residence that is far away from the place of employment and not the address from which they are actually coming to work. Although the Working Conditions Act makes it clear that a worker, including a public servant, in concluding a contract of employment, guarantees that the title data from which he is driving to work are accurate and complete. Otherwise, sanctions, including the termination of the employment contract, follow. In the past, there have already been cases where the most extreme option has been to terminate the employment contract and pay back the overpaid benefits to some civil servants, but the number of such cases has been extremely low in terms of the number of employees in the public sector and in my opinion does not reflect the actual situation. I certainly do not claim to be a fraud at all ends, but I firmly believe that abuse is much more than cases of actually established illegality, so there is no doubt a need to tighten surveillance in this area. Mr. Secretary, I ask you: How much was the annual amount of the budget allocated to the reimbursement of transport costs to work for public servants in 2011 and how much do you estimate to be by the end of 2012? How many cases of abuse in the area of reimbursement of transport costs have been identified in the public sector in 2011 and 2012? What sanctions did the offender face? Or how will you strengthen control over whether public servants actually come to work from the title set out in the declaration to exercise the right to reimbursement of transport costs at work and from work? Are you going to tighten sanctions for violators? How will you rationalise the transport of public servants employed by certain state authorities, MORS, MNZ, police who travel from a place hundreds of kilometres away and beyond and thus qualify for extremely high reimbursement costs for transport to work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Dr. Shadow Fever, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u161	Thank you. Good evening to all Members of Parliament! I'll go straight to the points, just like you asked. First of all, what is the amount of the budget allocated to the reimbursement of transport costs for work in 2011 and what is the estimated amount in 2012? The mass of public sector payments in 2011 amounted to €131.5 million and the mass estimate paid back for the whole public sector for 2012 and €117 million, which is 11% less. This reduction, i.e. the assessment of the reduction, is based on a reduced number of employees in the public sector, as well as a different arrangement for reimbursement of transport costs for work in the Public Finance Balance Act. When it comes to question number two, how many cases of abuse in the area of the reimbursement of transport costs to work have been identified in the public sector in 2011 and 2012, I must say that the Ministry I manage does not have these records. Therefore, there is no legal basis for such records to be kept, so unfortunately I cannot mediate this information. The next question was whether we would tighten the control over whether public servants actually come to work from the title set out in the declaration to exercise the right to reimbursement of transport costs at work and from work. As you know, this control, as well as any record of any infringements of this right and of such payments, shall be carried out by each body for itself. Once again, the MPJU does not collect this data and therefore, as I said before, it does not have these records and does not have an overview of how individual authorities exercise control. Control over this issue, i.e. whether someone actually lives where he says he lives, and has also mentioned the location he has, in order to be entitled to this payment, is in practice the most effective with the help of private investigators. We have a law on detective activity, this law regulates it. I know that some authorities, both in the public sector and in the private sector, use these options, even when it comes to identifying other abuses, such as absences from work due to the absence of hospitals and so on. However, as it is said, this control is left to the organs themselves. So I must say that the department I am running does not even have any such powers that could otherwise be regulated by this control. The same applies to the issue of sanctioning possible infringements. I think that the public administration knows a range of sanctions that is broad enough – if you have any suggestions to complement it, I will gladly listen to you and then think about it. For the time being, however, sanctions are sanctions if we start at the worst: the worst penalty is a crime of fraud if an act of a public servant fulfils such signs. Then the sanctions that you have already mentioned in part, one is disciplinary responsibility and, as a result, the cancellation of the employment contract, then the employee's duty to pay back the amount of overpaid benefits, then there's also compensation liability, two types, I think that this recruitment is quite wide, it's important to put it into practice, but I know, also from this reminder that the professional services have prepared for me, and from talking to their colleagues that it's quite difficult in practice to monitor, that is, these possible abuses. [[...]] When it comes to the last question of how we will rationalise the transport of public servants employed by certain national authorities, you have had in mind the Ministry of Defence and the military, and the Ministry of the Interior and the police in this context, which drive from places 100 kilometres away and beyond, are thus entitled to an extremely high reimbursement of transport costs to and from work, first of all to provide data on the amount, on the mass of these costs paid out from the budget for the MNZ and the police. Here we have 18.9 million for last year, for 2012 16.3 million; for MORS last year, 24 million, this year 21 million, when this is the final answer to this question, I will then take the time I will have if I have it then.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u163	Thanks for the answer. It is not that public servants are not allowed higher wages; it is more concerned that we have two types; those who honestly report where they live; and those who do not. And that's not right, and that's not how it works. There's something else I'd like to say. This was €131 million for last year. Passenger transport in the Slovenian Railways has gross traffic of less than 90 million per year and I therefore think that since we are only in the summers, I think that in July, in the National Assembly we have already adopted the amendment of the Road Transport Act, which carried a means of subsidising the transport of students and students under one roof, while public transport providers receive funds from subsidies directly from the State, I am interested in the Minister: Are you thinking about a similar subsidy scheme for public servants in connection with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space? In connection with what I said earlier – 131 million, complex passenger transport and less than 90 million euro on Slovenian railways. This would also relieve some road, budgetary expenditure and negative environmental impacts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u164	Thank you very much. This was an additional proposal and an additional question, however. Dr. Lulcanic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u165	Thank you. First of all, I would just like to complete the answer to the last question why such a high volume of funds is earmarked for the payment of such costs in the military or the MORS and the police or the MNZ. Here the response is related to the human resources capacity of both segments, which are such that in certain parts of Slovenia they are larger than in others; therefore, in the eastern part of Slovenia there is more available staff than in the western part and after the information I received from the professional services, there is such a real situation and here there is not much to be done. However, when it comes to the proposal that you have made the last time, let me say that, as part of the preparation of the Public Finance Balance Act, we have already considered different ways of regulating this issue, including those that you have now proposed. I absolutely support it myself, and if there is enough will and agreement in the coalition – and I hope that even in the opposition – we will also go into such a change. This is how I accept and welcome your proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Aloyzi Potočnik, a question for the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u167	Dear Minister! That there are complications, if I say so, with the new information system, it has been known for at least a year, but it was expected that, like in such projects, problems would be resolved over time, but they did not. Since then, records of the consequences of the problems with the information system have revealed many things. Let me just mention the difficulty in sorting revenue into all four cash registers, to the country, to the local community, to the health and pension bills, and the threat of non-payment of wages in the health sector, which is still very slow, as I have been accompanying the last two or three days, and not least, the search for alleged culprits of controversy, if we say so, by house informers. What I think is most important, however, is that they also came to the Chamber of Accounting Services, which communicates daily with the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, and listed and found a series of errors. I could find something else, but of course it's enough. I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General: What is your ministry's position on these issues? What measures have you already taken or are you planning? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Dr. Schusterschitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u169	Thank you for your question. The Ministry's position is that these are real problems that actually exist and we are also working to solve them. We have spent quite some time finding out with the Tax Administration – I mean, not that we have found out, but that we have convinced them of this problem, in fact, that it is not something that will pass very quickly, but that we need to actively solve it. However, we know all that, including what you have mentioned about errors in the allocation of funds collected through public taxes to various cash registers. We are also familiar with this at the Ministry or have noticed that disagreements are taking place here. As early as April and March, we were also reminded by the Financial Service of the Health Insurance Institute, which was a little surprised in the end, and we took quite some time to reach out to the Tax Administration to get the problem done as needed. I estimate that more attention has recently been paid to this problem. However, the Acting Director-General has taken a number of measures, including replacing the key people who run or run these projects so far, both in the field of computer science and in the project management itself. As far as I know, these people will remain under the Tax Administration. This is a decision in which I, as Minister, find it difficult to embark, in which case I may have acted differently, but the Acting Director has also assumed some responsibility if matters are not adequately resolved in the future. The press conference also made it clear that the Tax Administration is aware of these shortcomings, that it is trying to resolve them in principle in a way that will be a little more kind to the debtors than it would be if it could reasonably be assumed that these are actual non-payments. This is said to be an attempt to determine the actual state of affairs, possible errors to be addressed. I also called on the Tax Administration to do so in a way that does not presuppose, on which side is the fault, whether it is the fault on the record side or on the hostage side. There are ways for such a kinder solution. I hope that this will also happen in practice – at least this is how we were assured by the Tax Administration that – and I hope that if they do not, we will receive very quickly some e-mails and similar notifications. We also point to this when problems still arise where they may have been thought to have been eliminated. I also ordered and was assured that it would be so done that if it was found that there had also been errors on the part of the contractor of the information system, in order to determine the liability, perhaps even compensation liability or redefinition of the contract. The measure that we received early at the beginning of the mandate was that we stopped the plans to continue the second phase of this project, unfortunately and temporarily because I am aware of the importance of information technology, but our assessment was that the current phase should first be consolidated and then continued with the next steps, which are otherwise important. I think I answered about the measures. As far as these findings of misdistribution of funds are concerned, I think we have now successfully resolved that the records are better. Returns or repairs have also occurred where necessary. Thus, at least at the end of the year, we will also have some real deficits in the budget and in other public cash registers.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr Darko Jazbec, a question for Mr Gantar's Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u171	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present, especially the ministers! My question is easier than the answer, but I'm still curious. For our health care, I'd say it's pretty great, given how much we spend on an individual for health care and how much we get from this system. We are somewhere 20, 25% below the average of how much money we spend on an individual in the EU. Germany, Austria, they spend twice as much, but patients don't get twice as much. So we actually have a pretty good system, but -- what's going on now? GDP is falling steadily, health needs are rising, and with the ZUJF and other austerity measures we have come to, say, the brink of collapse in terms of financial stability, and income is lower due to fewer employees. So we are in a situation where almost all hospitals, most of them, I think there are 18 in red numbers, 1/3 of health homes are already in losses, the budget also has no extra money, for the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia we have also heard that it is in loss. So there's no money. Maybe these district health care agencies are the only ones that are still doing a good job, so I hope we're not going to change things where there's no problem. All of this is now passed on to suppliers. What's going on? The last time I talked to the major wholesalers in the field of pharmaceuticals, they said they didn't get payments for five to six months, and then they block accounts and something freaks out. Another large company importing surgical materials from Switzerland said that they had to rent 200 000 euros of credit in order to pay their claims. If this continues, dear medicines will leave this market better materially. In this regard, I am also interested in your opinion on this bill for the implementation of the budget, where directors are supposed to pay this ridiculous fine, EUR 10,000, because it is actually a systemic problem. You know that under these conditions virtually no hospital or other health institution can now [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Minister Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u173	Thank you for asking. In fact, it is an important content, and in fact, much of what you find is true. The fact is that health funding problems have been emerging for many years and have now come to some level that is increasingly difficult to manage. There is a fundamentally simple reason for us to have increasing needs on the one hand, including by means, not only after treatment, or because of demographic structures, new medicines, appliances and the like, which is happening in all countries. On the other hand, we are faced with the fact that income or that contributions to this health care facility are limited and limited. This gap has been increasing for a number of years, and this has led to a transfer of 41 million last year, after we passed the Public Finance Balance Act, where we have tried, I think we have done, until this very moment, in a way that we have not reduced the health insurance rights themselves and have sometimes been encouraged. But that's not enough. In fact, according to macroeconomic indicators, there has been a decrease in income to health cash registers, inflows, in this second part of the year. This will result in an even greater deficit at the end of the year and for the peak of the year, there is still a mistake in Durs, where the health department could return an additional 37.6 million. The fact is that hospitals in recent years, 2009, 2010 had to save more than €300 million this year at the expense of price cuts and that I have also advocated that it will not continue the same way. Now we're at a point where, if I look at the data itself, it actually looks less critical than it really is. In fact, at the same time last year after nine months in the loss of two hospitals were less than this year. If we look at this, it's not that big a failure, but health homes are mostly positive. On the other hand, this value is increasing, it almost doubled in the first nine months, it was 22.7 million, and directors do not really have very large reserves. Much has been done in recent years and I think it is now up to us to decide whether to make systemic changes or to reduce rights. I do not think that the reduction of rights for our citizens is to be taken into account, which means that systemic changes are necessary. Directors on the one hand do not have enough leverage in their hands, wages are the same for everyone, in fact they are the case for a certain type of balancing box, decision-making is limited, the possibilities of action are limited, so their work is also limited to what they have at their disposal, and therefore I do not think that the measure you mentioned is a penalty for negative business – this is, of course, my personal opinion – that it is pointless and unfair because they do not really have much opportunity at their disposal. But where I see a bigger problem, how we're going to deal with rationalisation. You mentioned the Department of Health, where we only try to provide additional money at the expense of more rational work without the abolition of health care institutions. I can imagine that when we propose measures in hospitals within the health network, the controversy will be even more controversial and tense. There is a possibility of raising the contribution rate, which in my view is more theoretical in this situation than practical in nature or feasible because of economic difficulties, this is one option. On the revenue side, there is another possibility of equating the contribution rates, spreading the contribution rates, which will also have major consequences, and, as we say, a basket of rights and organisation and governance. What we will decide is also a matter of common agreement, because I think such a thing is necessary. Since time is limited, thank you for now, I'll continue after that.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u174	Thank you very much. I can see that Mr Jazbec is asking for a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u175	Thank you very much. And I didn't mean any special addition, but to take advantage of the opportunity to question, because you can't solve this problem without a broader agreement and consensus within the government, if we're talking about systemic solutions. But I'm asking you: Do you feel that the Ministry of Finance, which is crucial here, understands this problem of the urgency of solving this? Because from what's been going on in the past few days, I don't feel like the Minister of Finance at all, as I would say, shows the right attitude towards your department. Because in this case, what happened to Durs, where he's guilty, is known, for this confusion of Durs, the Minister of Finance is responsible. We've seen that it was a matter of behavior that the attack was the best defense, and from the Ministry of Finance, everything was thrown at your department. I also see a little arrogant behavior and I'm curious: Are you involved in solving this problem with the Minister of Finance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u176	Good. I'll make a comment anyway. Mr Jazbec, you yourself have very freely admitted that this is a small one, it can be an understatement, not a complement. We have spoken to the College about respect for the Rules of Procedure and I must warn you that this time you have also violated the Rules of Procedure. Anyway, please, Minister Gantar, if you have any answers, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u177	I'll hardly say the answer. See, in particular, I would like to, and also in this context, we are talking to our fellow ministers to understand and know that healthcare has been saving up for many years now, contrary to a number of other sectors, that over 300 million have actually been taken away in recent years and that if there are no systemic changes, there can actually be a very drastic scenario, what will happen next. At the end of last year, healthcare was owed to drug and material suppliers over €70 million, which will be significantly higher this year. This time is no longer available, but this question, which is difficult to address, is the fact that it has not been resolved for so many years, has not been accepted. I'm sure we'll sit down with my colleague Shušteršič to try and find some acceptable solutions that might come into play in this case. It is, however, a fact that I advocate the special importance of health care, which is not entirely equivalent to every department, which is probably one of my colleagues' advocates. But I just think that we need to find a solution here in some agreement to one of the key issues, and I think that we will have a lot of discussions in the next month on this subject within the coalition, and then probably among you, too, to take a solution that would be as good as possible for patients.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, I presume. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u179	Yes, you do. I propose that a broader debate be held on this answer. Otherwise, I do not see where the rules of procedure have been breached, because it is only necessary to understand this content, it is fully linked to the previous reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Then the rules of procedure will have to be read carefully again. There are no additional questions, but it is just a supplement to the answer – for another time. Mr Franc Jurša is next. It's a matter for the Minister of Vision.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u181	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. On my part, a nice greeting is given to all present in the hall. In the previous week, at the 20th extraordinary session of the National Assembly, we discussed the proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance, where we, as well as some others, including the Ministry, also talked about cleaning the pension register. The pension box is burdened with various matters, including the costs of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office. We are of the opinion that these costs must be covered from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, not from paid contributions paid to the pension fund. The Minister probably replied, yes, because we are paying a pension bill of 400 million, but I will be able to reply very quickly to you that this is not only paid for pensions, but that it is paid for some pensions that should be transferred to other parts of the state budget on the basis of the clearance of the pension. As part of the cleaning of the pension register, we are interested in: How much are the total operating costs of the Pension and Disability Insurance Service? What's involved here? What is the amount of funds allocated to the salaries of employees in the institution? What is the amount of resources allocated to the education of employees? What was the increase in the number of employees in the institution in the last ten years? How many scholarships and what scholarships were awarded at the institution? What is the amount of funds earmarked for investments? What are these investments? Given the time and urgently needed savings, as well as: Were these investments necessary? Mr Minister, I expect from you, and I am confident that I will have concrete answers, because we need them for further discussion on the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance PPIZ-2.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u182	Good. Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u183	Thank you very much. I like specific questions, honourable Member, and I will therefore be very specific. First question: How much are the total operating costs of the services of the institution, and what do they include? The total cost is €36 million 87 000,851, which includes: firstly, €17.6 million, then there are employers' contributions to these salaries, €3.2 million, and €2.5 million are regress, transport, nutrition, departures, jubilee awards. Then we have a second larger package, which is goods and services, EUR 7.5 million, and the third major package is investment expenditure of EUR 5.2 million. It's an approximate specification. What is the amount of money allocated for wages; I have already told you that €17.6 million, and we need to add to this the contribution of employers of €3.2 million, and then the wages also go into the amount of regress, the jubilee prize, which is 2.5 million, as I said before – transport, nutrition and so on. Third question: How much is the amount of funding allocated to education? For the education of employees in the institution, €94 000 is allocated in 2011. Excuse me, 94,000 284 euros. Then the fourth question is: what is the growth in the number of employees over the last ten years? In 2003, there were 792 employees, and then there was a slight increase there until 2005, when there were 865 employees, now 875 employees or 2012 and this figure is somewhere around here. That's saying, over the last eight years, it's about 870, 880, there's a moving number, plus minus five. Then let's move on. How many scholarships and which were awarded? In 2011, 8 scholarships, 3 for law and 5 for IT were awarded, then also in 2012, of course I am talking about human resources scholarships, 7 scholarships, one for law and 6 for IT. What is the amount of funds earmarked for investments and for which? For investments, as I said before, EUR 5.2 million has been earmarked, of which EUR 2.1 million has been earmarked for the purchase of various land, since after the approval of investment laboratories it will be necessary to purchase business premises for the Kranj District Unit, Nova Gorica District Unit, Trbovlje Exhibition and the World of the Institute. The next major item is the purchase of equipment and other basic assets and intangible assets of EUR 2.9 million, mainly for computer equipment, servers, printing systems, active and passive networks and communication equipment, machine computer equipment, printing equipment, reproduction, licenses, other non-licensed software and so on. I hope I've answered everything.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u184	Apparently, Minister, you've been very effective, but not enough. Another one? [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u185	Thank you very much for your answers. Specific questions, specific answers. I would also like this concrete reply, Mr. Secretary-General, to: Are you fully satisfied with the information you received or have provided?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u186	Now, Minister, a comment on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u187	No, I'm not satisfied, so we're going to cut them by 5% in 2013. The Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance shares the fate of all other public sectors and institutions, where we will reduce wages by 5% and also material costs, in line with the Government's conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u188	You still have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u189	I won't ask for a debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u190	Then don't. Excuse me, excuse me. We're already so used to the violation that I apologize. Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, a question for the Minister of Health, Mr Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u191	Nice greetings, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues and other ministers present! My colleague Jazbec and I did not discuss a practically identical issue. But the fact is, obviously, we're both very concerned about the health system. The fact is that the ZUJF and I – you say we did not intervene in the rights, but we did because we moved them from compulsory to supplementary health insurance and thereby increased expenses from our own pocket. However, this change has not helped and, as we can see, the forecasts are that we will have 74 million deficits in the health treasury at the end of the year. Even more tragic consequences are forecast for next year. Two of your predecessors have left you a comprehensive package of health reforms in both segments, both regulating health care and health insurance, and we therefore look forward to which of these solutions will be considered appropriate or new. We all agree that we need to find solutions, because a spontaneous scenario does not only mean that money is running out on one side, a spontaneous scenario means that patients' access to health services will begin to decline, which is what we all least want. While supporting health care and seeking positive health solutions in terms of preserving rights among the population. That's why I'm asking you: What measures is the Ministry preparing to limit direct expenditure and to cover the increasing losses of public health institutions? The following: When do you plan to come with systemic changes? What is the direction of systemic change the Ministry is thinking about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Minister Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u193	Thank you. I have to say, I'm also worried about seeing what's been going on with health funding lately. But I knew it would be hard at the beginning of the year, of course. That is why we have also tried to stabilise the health treasury and adopted the Public Finance Balance Act, the result of which was only in the end that, with the average supplementary insurance premium of 3 to 4 euros, all rights remained unchanged. We did not intervene in particular and leave them at a time when we will adopt legislation and actually know what we have in health care. Regrettably, first of all, according to macroeconomic indicators, an additional loss of income of almost 19 million in the health treasury at the time of the adoption of the law, and this case with the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which added to the burden. In any event, within a week or ten days he will go to public hearing of the Medicinal Products Act. Medicines are an area where we spend about 300 million euros a year on them. I believe that, in addition to what has already been adopted for the treatment groups in the Public Finance Balance Act, something else can be saved here. Of course, it is difficult to get to that limit that there will be no withdrawal of medicines from the market if prices are too low. Also minor measures than you may have been monitoring, prices of blood components, plasma products that have been overpaid by hospitals for many years. Here we are counting on savings with a new rule that is ready, about four million even on an annual level. Then, last year, this general public procurement order was launched; unfortunately, the legislation is such that the possibility of obstruction is very large that it is not fully completed after one year and we are also estimated to have a savings of about five or six million. Of course, all of this is too small, this is where the Health Act comes in turn, where we will have to touch the organisation. One part is already in what will be done tomorrow at first reading in Parliament, with regard to health care institutions, partial rationalisation, and in any way we wanted to maintain the expertise of work in this area. This law will then – i.e. it has not yet come into consideration, we are waiting for an appropriate law on public institutions, which will define the status of public institutions where concessions will be defined, and last but not least, it will be necessary to define the autonomy of the management of these health institutions and the organisation itself. In fact, my predecessor has already mentioned integration, integration, I believe that there will be a lot of pressure and difficulties in this area, given that they have already occurred in health care institutions. On the other hand, an even more important law, when we exhaust these savings options, is the Health and Health Insurance Act, which refers to health financing in that most important part. This is where we have to get first, how much money will healthcare have, which depends largely on what happens to the contribution rates. We have already proposed in the ZUJF, our ministry, the extension to copyright, to contracts that have not been adopted, and it will probably be necessary to bite the apple into this sour apple and actually provide additional health care resources. Without that, it is difficult for me to imagine that there would be no limitation of rights, which, of course, I am not personally inclined to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Dr. Black.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Given that this is a franticly complex problem, I join my colleague Jazbec's request that a general discussion be carried out on this subject in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 because it is indeed an extremely broad issue and we must first agree on the direction of change and then move gradually into amending individual laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u196	Thank you very much. This was already a procedural proposal. We will vote in the framework of the votes. The next is Maja Dimitrovski, a question for the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, the floods are here again. They caused a lot of damage and a lot of damage to the population in the flooded areas. The damage is enormous. Only the extraordinary sacrifice of firefighters and civil protection can we thank for the absence of human sacrifices and even greater harm, but even so the sacrificing work of all services cannot be as effective as proper preventive action. Since we have little impact on natural phenomena, we need to speed up and focus the country's efforts on measures that reduce the population's risk. At the end of July, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment sent a proposal to define areas of major flood impact in the Republic of Slovenia, after which the country would focus measures on 56 out of a total of 200 flood-affected areas. This is a core document that is intended to enable the country to plan flood action as a priority. The deadline for the conclusion of the public debate was 10 September. Areas were promised to be confirmed in the same month. By the end of 2013, detailed flood risk and threat maps for these areas should be drawn up. Each of them is then to draw up a concrete action plan by the end of 2015. According to a very rough estimate, the entire financial envelope of the project is estimated to be worth €380 million. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary-General: What are the first results of the public debate? Are the areas of significant flood impact definitively defined? What activities are envisaged in the preparation of concrete flood risk management plans, and what is the timetable for their implementation? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u199	Thank you, too, for this question, which, as you said, is unfortunately very topical again. First, in the introduction, in addition to the thanks that are necessary and urgently needed, we must repeat it several times, to firefighters and civil protection and to local communities. I think that thanks goes to all citizens, citizens living in these areas, this solidarity assistance that we see, inter-neighbourly, communities that actively engage, but I certainly think that state institutions such as the police, the military have done their part and I think we can really convince that this system of protection and rescue in Slovenia works. Everything you have mentioned in your question about the very course of decomposition of flood areas is true. You have stated very well that it stems from the 2007 flood directive. It is about the fact that it is on a global scale – as we can see, New York was a little back on impact, now we are, and that these storms are becoming more and more common – that is why Europe has also adopted the right directive in this area, the flood from which these documents or deadlines you cited follow; from the designation of flood zones, maps and then also implementing measures. This summer, we completed this section of the Water and Water Institute as a performer in mid-summer, and then we opened this matter up to almost 2 months of public decomposition, a debate which, as I can put it, was very varied and in those 56 areas that were limited, came up with over 50 initiatives, so that the initiatives were different. Finally, following the coordination of this proposal, some areas have been merged on the basis of these initiatives, some have also been added. The conclusion, or these specific figures, I think it is right to mention them and then make very clear what the impact of this public divisiveness was. 56 areas have been dealt with before the public decommissioning, now after this merger, and we have 60 areas. In the first phase, it was the area of the area of 35.34 square kilometres, which is now extended to 46.70. Living people were originally in these areas, in those 56, 103 thousand 390, now nearly 128 thousand; the number of buildings from 18 thousand to 22 thousand 900; the number of cultural heritage units from 600 — now thousands of 543; the number of cultural monuments is about the same — 575, 534; the number of business entities went from 14 thousand 277 to 16 thousand 876; the estimated number of employees from 70 thousand to 85 thousand in these areas. The area of potential pollution risk of protected areas is approximately half a square mile, reaching 0.75. Number of IPPC debtors from 39 to 44. The length of the important line infrastructure from a thousand 421 to 626 kilometres and the number of important social infrastructure facilities from a thousand 264 to 439. It appears that the debate was varied and that there were many comments. The expert proposal is now ready and – I link with your second question – this is now what we intend to adopt and propose to the Government as a regulation to adopt, from here forward with the activities of preparing these flood maps for all these areas – in this grave form we need to have up to 2 000 13 – and a threat plan for these 60 areas by 2020. The number now linked to the measures needed to do so is increasing from the 380 original to around EUR 500 million. From these data it is clear that these are very large-scale issues for which some projects are in preparation, more than what they have now spoken in general. So, for these key areas that are traditionally affected and integrated here, a state spatial plan is now being drawn up and is in the final stage both for the Railways and for the southwestern part of Ljubljana, including the area of these dry restraints. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] I'll talk to the residents. [[...]] Since I am running out of time, I believe you will complete the question, and I will be able to continue in this work or answer any further questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u200	Mrs. Dimitrovski, supplemental.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u201	Dear Minister, thank you very much for your comprehensive answers! I am very pleased that very intensive work is being done at your ministry in this area, and I hope that you will be able to fulfil all the commitments you have made at this address in time, and I particularly hope that you will be able to defend the professional proposal on deciding the areas of major impact of the flood and will not succumb to the influence of the local lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u202	Good. I think it was just a comment. Would you like two more sentences, Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u203	Just to finish that thought. In addition to Železnikov's state spatial plans, Ljubljana intensively in Savinja, one part is already a cohesion project, which has been implemented, in part, a marijagrasian curve, which has endured this Savinja storm, is being prepared for the Savinja Valley, as well as an application for a cohesion project for Drava, which is now supported by documents, a construction application for a construction permit, just for the critical area of Duplek, Dogoše, which has now sailed in this part. What awaits us all about this and if we meet with a reorganisation in the field of safe food tomorrow, we have a similar situation in the field of organisation of the water sector, the third Friday of today is in line with the deadline on the table proposal, how to bring the totally dispersed water system back together in Slovenia, so that we will also get a critical mass in the same place and that Slovenia, as a country, will again manage the waters. In this context, we also intend to go intensively towards the inclusion of local communities, communities, in a significantly more active role than they have today, when they can practically only be silent observers and those who most often issue a cry for help in the desert. Financial resources – very difficult. As I have already mentioned, one part of the cohesion project is also in the next perspective, in addition to these current ones, another important part is the water fund, the climate fund and the attempt, and I hope that we will also conclude in the government in this direction that, through the unexploded past recovery programmes, the programme to be implemented this year, we will find that these resources are too small and that additional credits from the European Investment Bank, the first talks already under way, will give us some additional money for this area. This would also correct this backlog and, on the other hand, trigger economic activity in the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u204	Okay, Minister, that was probably two and a half sentences. Now we can move on. The next question lies with Mr Jožef Horvat, Minister of Labour and Minister of Health, for both. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Ministers! I also did not agree with my colleague, Barbara Žgajner Tavš, to raise an identical question addressed to virtually the same addresses, both ministers, Minister Gantar and mags. A visionary, although my question was asked a day earlier, obviously logic in the National Assembly is reversed. The Slovenian company hospic is a non-governmental, non-profit, humanitarian organisation established in June 1995. The basic programme of society is the care of severely ill people with advanced chronic disease at a crucial stage and their relatives at home, the latter also in the process of mourning. The professional group helps the dying and their domestics in their homes, they have many volunteers as well as House hospic, the only institution of this type in Slovenia. I even know some of these volunteers, they're great people and they're trustworthy. Hospic presents an international programme of integrated care for the dying and their families, even after death, at the time of mourning. The password of hospice is to add life to days, not days, of life. The only house hospic in Slovenia is located in Hradetskog 20 in Ljubljana, which is intended to stay and care for the dying, after a year and a half of operations currently full of twelve suppliers and is in great financial trouble. The implementation of the programme depends on the donations collected and the success of the calls for proposals. Slovenia, according to my information, is the only European country that does not have a house hospice placed in a system of palliative care. Palliative care has even fallen out of the national social protection programme. The solution for House hospic is outlined in the new national social protection programme prepared by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which is currently under public scrutiny, but also in this programme neither palliative care nor hospice houses are mentioned, which could complicate the acquisition of social security concessions. I ask both distinguished ministers: What measures do you intend to take to improve palliative care in Slovenia? Are concessions envisaged for palliative care programmes? How is the inclusion of hospice in the national social protection programme and when will it be ready? What possibility does a hospice have for its status to be properly regulated, as it is threatened with closure due to lack of financial resources? Which state funds can he run for or on what call for ministries? Thank you very much for your answers, but of course I also swear on rationality in using time or in your answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Minister Visjak will be the first to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The ministries have already held several meetings on this subject and are of the opinion that the most appropriate solution to the problem mentioned is the granting of concessions for short-term accommodation in the field of institutional protection of the chronically ill and dying. Such a solution also contains the proposal for a national social protection programme currently under public debate, and we will publish the call as soon as this national programme for 2013 is adopted. Medical supplies would be provided by the Department of Health Insurance. Look, it wouldn't have happened if this case hadn't been funded so far. In doing so, it must be said that we are co-financing programmes involving psychosocial treatment from 2000 onwards and the value of the programme from 2010 to 2014 is €73,000 per year, which is sufficient for the employment of three professional workers. This is how we spend some money on this, and it is safe to say that a stable solution is financing through tendering and concession.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u208	Thank you very much. And Minister Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u209	I'm not gonna repeat what I said before. I think my colleague Visian is both aware of the importance of this hospice's work, and I think there will be a solution to this in the short run. Unfortunately, we are solving a problem that has been dragging on for many years and should probably have been solved by now. However, I believe that, despite the problems of the health register in the coming year, at least this problem can be closed once.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u210	Thank you very much. A supplement, Mr. Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Vice President. Not as much as a complementary question, perhaps more an initiative, because business is also possible. The former Minister of Health, Mr Marusic, is expected to propose the financing of the House of Hospoc through the Sežana Hospital in 2010. We believe that Sežana Hospital is also supposed to receive and spend money for Hospice House this year, and the Hospice House will never see it, and so it has been shamelessly played. I propose, Mr Minister, in particular Minister Gantar, that my statements be checked and that the Ministry take appropriate action if this is indeed an abuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u212	Please, Minister Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u213	If I can only answer for a moment. So far, he has not had a hospice opportunity as a society of such funding as we would like. He needs a concession to do so, and as a society, he did not have the conditions at the moment. The moment it does, of course, we are ready to resolve this issue as well. They were not able to agree with Séžana because of their lack of harmony with the standards that a person wants or proposes. There was a lot of work done here, as Minister Visjak has already said. There is also a need for obedience on the other hand, not just a requirement that is at the expense of such severe patients or people who are truly in the worst of distress — but one way or another, it can be represented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u214	Thank you very much. The following question is raised by Mrs Renata Brunskole, Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Well, hello, everyone here. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. Secretary. I have the next question. In what way will you ensure the proper implementation of all health-care services and preventive measures in all areas of the Republic of Slovenia, especially when talking about equal treatment of demographically endangered areas? I'm asking you: How will you ensure quality control and adoption of health protection measures in areas where people have already experienced ecological disasters? In view of the proposed abolition or merger of the Health Care Institute, I ask you: How will quality, time-effective and immediate health care be provided to all areas in the Republic of Slovenia? Possible discriminatory treatment undoubtedly means endangering human health, neglecting environmental protection and inefficient prevention of viral epidemics and environmental disasters. My question followed the fact that you are changing what does not bring loss to the country, which does not bring financial burden to the country, but improves the quality of defending health care and preventive measures in all areas of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, the abolition of health care institutions or the merger of workers with the Institute for Health Protection also means an increase in the number of unemployed by the dismissal of workers who earn money on the market, so they are not under the burden of the country. In connection with the operation of one of these health care institutions, as is the case in the New Town, he is also an important actor in control and prevention measures in more remote areas. As an example, let me say an ecological disaster that was more than a decade ago in the White Krajina when the Krupa River was contaminated with PCBs. This means that we are moving backwards because there is a problem of time efficiency, the functioning of control mechanisms, the monitoring and implementation of preventive measures in the direction of health and environmental protection. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Minister, Mr. Tomaž Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u217	I have to say at the starting point that this means a professional step forward and not backward. The other thing is, you asked me about discriminatory treatment, which is a health hazard. Just discriminatory treatment is possible in the current regime, where all health care institutions operate very autonomously, practically unrelated at the state level. I am also very disturbed by your training – it is said, whether you are shutting someone down or connecting them, is an essential difference. With this bill, we do not completely abolish anyone, but we are talking only about a different organisational form with the same number of health care institutions as they are today. We expect that, not at the expense of market services, the impact of public health will actually increase. You mentioned New City. The new city is one that devotes and devotes more than 70% of its work or funds directly to market activity and we want to separate the market from public health and non-exhaustive public health. There is also some sense of rationalisation, and I probably do not need to talk about the reasons, because we have already talked about health financing issues in the past, in terms of the financial situation of health, but this was not the primary guide in the proposal for this law. The primary guide is, of course, a single doctrine; a single doctrine that can be guided if these institutions are also substantively linked. I can give you an example, now I think of a measure that one of the regional institutions gave during the worst drought on the coast to pour water out of the taps and leave at all ends, which is professionally completely stupid, because it does not in any way reduce the possibility of legionella disease in kindergartens. This is where we want the uniform operation of the profession in cases where this is most necessary, without excessive coordination, but with agreement; given that experts in such a single institution are united, they can also act on this basis. Only this means equal treatment of all people in the Republic of Slovenia – just the opposite of the claims you have raised in your question. So once again; what is essential in the whole thing is that we do not stop anyone from taking an organisational form where he has a particular public health burden, which the separation of laboratory work itself poses in no way a threat. It also makes sense to save some money in this place and to give it to public health. This probably does not need to be stressed, given that the additional money for this area from other addresses in the face of all the problems of hospitals and other health homes and so on, as we discussed earlier, is probably not to be mentioned. I personally believe that there is a professional step forward in this area, not back, as was somehow put as a statement in your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Will you request a supplement to the answer? Mrs. Renata Brunskole, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u219	Of course, thank you very much. Thank you very much for your answer. I understand, Mr. Secretary-General. In fact, on two sides; on the one hand, I understand you as a minister and in the medical profession, you can think about how this is a step forward. But if we're looking at that part that we had in common, in the mayoral work, in the work of the representatives of the local community, we're already in a different position. For example, the Novo Mesto Institute for Health Care means the area of Dolenjska, White Krajina, for the Bachelor-Fishing Area, which means that people are highly educated people of the profession you spoke of, from laboratories and so on – we know what professional profiles are employed in these institutions, these people from all these areas have had jobs. Today, when we talk about association, it means that these people will have up to Ljubljana 120, 140 kilometers, maybe only 70 to Ljubljana. All these people or at least a few of these people will be taken to Ljubljana to the Institute for Health Protection. Of course, there's a big loss, a big hole that needs to be filled with those who have a plus. This means that the river Kolpo, said Soča, will be all areas where health protection is also concerned in important tourist destinations, so that we can dislocate them from the time component of efficiency and quality health protection – all in Ljubljana. That's what we're gonna do. People from these demographically endangered areas will be prepared to be out of work alone because they will not be able to drive all to Ljubljana. That's what we're doing with this! I think the government hasn't given it much thought, but there's still time. I'm asking for that answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Minister, Mr. Tomaž Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u221	Thank you. Look, it's a little illogical to hear what was said again. I mentioned that we do not stop these institutions, that they will actually be available for the uniform management and uniform doctrine of Slovenia, which does not mean that they will drive daily to work in Ljubljana, but that they will stay there. If we are talking about rationalisation on the one hand, this means pure administrative staff. However, we do not want to lose professional staff, which at this point in some institution on the other end of Slovenia may actually be underutilised staff who could have their knowledge and experience for the whole country. That's what we're talking about. And once again, if you stop somewhere, that's what you're saying. But in fact, at least in preparing this, no one had a fig in his pocket and predicted that any institution would be shut down for a simple reason, because each region has its own specifications on one side, but of course there are also things on the professional level within the doctrine, I don't know, infectious diseases, sudden actions and everything that belongs to it, where there must be a unconditional and very short period of time a unified response at the level of the whole country. This is already in the past — I mentioned a case like this earlier, which is quite banal. [[...]] Also in the case of mouse fever, for example, there were differences in interpretation and instructions given at different ends of Slovenia. This I think is not really acceptable by the profession, and here I really don't see that we would interfere with professional work, and I don't want that either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u222	Thank you very much. You want a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, thank you for your answer. However, on the basis of the Minister's response, I propose that this response be discussed. I mean, I think that some of these measures are under-thinking. Amendments to the legislation that leads to certain areas in the Republic of Slovenia that are already at risk today, anywhere, not only in the area where I come from, then we will actually come to the point that some people will be out of work, although Mr Minister does not want this to be the case professionally. Just as soon as we get someone to work in Ljubljana, to devote this knowledge to Slovenia, not just a certain area, we are already taking this path. This is the fear we feel. In particular, it is of particular concern that institutions that do not charge so much the country's budget are geared towards filling the budgets of those institutions that have been minuses today with their revenues. We know that. That's proveable. I am sure that the local communities here will not stand as still as they may be at this point in time. I therefore propose a general discussion in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 November, in the framework of the votes. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar, who has a question for the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, is next. Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u225	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister Radovan Žerjav! I would like to start this topic again, which has already been heard in this Chamber today, which has touched the floods and damage caused by floods in some Slovenian regions, including the Koro region, as colleague Alenka mentioned. I would focus on the area of companies and independent entrepreneurs who suffered a great deal of damage at the time of the flood in Koroška. This is not so much the damage that some companies, such as Johnson Controls, are now investing in investment when they build some elements to protect against floods; nor is it the damage caused by the failure of production, which is reflected in the loss of the market in European and global markets, because this is a matter of economic societies and independent entrepreneurs, which are mainly exported to Europe and the world. It's damage caused specifically by equipment, on machines, on all the supplies they've had, in the rematerial and it's sued in large numbers. We can hear things from the media. And the government, I also have to give a commendation about the activation of the government, you too, Minister, who have also been to Koroška and you have been able to determine for yourself that the damage is great. It is also information received from the media that tells us that the first stage of settlement of this damage to companies follows from the Slovenian Enterprise Fund on the basis of aid under the de minimis rule of 200 000 per company. A specific example in the Slovenian economy is that of the Metal Factory, Memory, where 80 per cent of the total production was destroyed, the damage is estimated at a million 600. Probably with that number and that kind of money they won't be able to do much for themselves, it's 125 employees, everyone's tied to exports, to the external markets, and at that time, if they're going to fix this damage for a long time, these markets will go as well. It's my question I'm asking. In the second phase, when together you will determine the municipalities: Are the congregations of Korah affected by this damage? What will the total amount of financial assistance be in this second part, not only in the first part, which you will specifically give to it, but only in order to remedy damage in companies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Radovan Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u227	Thank you very much for that question. First, in line with the 2007-2013 Programme of Action to Promote Entrepreneurship and Competitiveness, the government has already issued a public call through the Slovenian Enterprise Fund for economic companies and independent entrepreneurs who have suffered damage to machinery and equipment and stocks, among the available funds that we have scratched at the Ministry and also at the Ministry of Finance. In the Official Journal of the European Union, 87 of 16. 11. Thus, not long ago, this public call was published and also on the website of the Slovenian Enterprise Fund. The measure will allow quick and intervention aid in the form of grants, as you said, at 20 per cent of the damage to machinery, equipment and supplies, or up to a maximum of EUR 200 000, in accordance with the de minimis rule. This rule no longer allows, this is a measure that we have at our disposal, and it is a measure that we wanted to take as soon as possible, because, according to my assessment, these resources, especially in the repair of machinery, in the start-up of production, will be of much importance and welcome. Of course, not as high as the economists would personally expect, but this is the first phase, the fastest we can do right now, and it is expected that the injured will receive these funds in December. That was phase one. The second phase is a description of the damage already beginning and being done, based on these injury inventories, a programme will be prepared to remedy the consequences of the damage in the economy, but this will certainly not be in December, and at this point it would be difficult to assess what resources will be available to remedy this damage in the second phase. You know the situation we are in, and in any case, as Minister of the Economy, I will make sure that these funds are as large as possible, as I have fought for these 4.4 million, which I think is important for us to keep the jobs that are at this moment, some are also at risk. I believe that this will be the kind of help that will make the entrepreneurs and, finally, the independent entrepreneurs happy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Complementary response, Mr Matjaž Zanoškar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u229	That is all I would ask, the question was also whether the congregations of Koroz were involved in this arrangement, and you were not talking about the masses. It is important, however, that our companies and independent entrepreneurs receive this assistance very, very quickly. Look, in a month or a few months, "adio" is also this market they work for, and then all these jobs are questionable. In comparison, I don't want to compare anything else now; in neighbouring Austria there was the same disaster, well, there was aid from the state, not by the insurance companies, by the state in just over a week. So they acted very quickly. I wish you, as well as for our economy and our economic societies and independent entrepreneurs, that you determine the height and give it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u231	Koroška must be here. What I saw in my own eyes was a disaster, not to say the apocalyptic dimension experienced by some companies in the industrial zone, when, in fact, the river was 50 meters wide, a height of two and a half meters, ran through the production of the hall and carried almost everything within those halls, so that the matter was literally catastrophic. So: yes! That's number one. Second. I did everything possible to get these funds, at least in the first phase, to those companies that had the costs of repairing these machines. In particular, we have focused on these funds being designed to repair these damage and possibly also to pay for the damage caused by the stocks, so that we can focus on what is most important now, leave it on the side of the hall, leave it on the side of the office, and I don't know what it is, it will be time to repair and paint and make-up and so on. Production is now crucial and this first phase is intended for this purpose. The other thing I said was how we're gonna try and seduce. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Dr Lázsló Göncz has a question for the Minister for Infrastructure and Space of Mr Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister Chernač! According to informal information, the only direct international railway connection between Slovenia and Hungary, a citadel train that runs on the route Ljubljana–Budapest, is to be terminated. We have not been able to obtain credible information from the competent professional institutions, and this is why we are concerned. It is probably not necessary to stress that the closure of this link would have created a major problem primarily due to the specific circumstances of North-East Slovenia and the population in other regions. This link also has an important international character. In the already well-mentioned and difficult Slovenian-Hungarian passenger connection, it is an important, practically only such possibility to travel. If this assumption is true, it is not clear in whose interest it is to close the link, nor does it prejudge any inappropriate exploitation. With regard to the latter, we have information that the number of passengers may not really be too much, but it is not so low that there is a possible interference in the timetable. However, it is important that, at a time when road congestion and high environmental pollution are constantly being discussed due to excessive use of passenger cars, the removal of rail passenger connections is illogical and to some extent reckless. I'm asking you: Is your Ministry aware of these plans of the Slovenian Railways or the competent professional institutions, and is this information true? If the answer is yes: Do you believe that such an intervention in the international timetable is in the spirit of the Republic of Slovenia's efforts to promote the transport of the population by public means of transport, especially when it comes to the deficit area in the field of transport and passenger services and to the only international link on the said route? Thank you very much in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Minister Zvonko Blackach. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u235	Thank you, too, for that question. In the area of Pomurje, as you know, the largest project in the field of modernisation of railway infrastructure has started and will be even more intensive in the next three years, namely the project of reconstruction of electricity and upgrading of the Prague-Hodoš railway, and the project will be implemented and will also be implemented in 2013 and 2014 as a sub-project of line upgrading at the Prague-Murska Sobota section, second phase. In this context, there will be more extensive work, which will also make it possible to remove and replace a particular part of the rolling stock, and there will be longer closures of the entire section of the line. For this reason, Slovenian railways, together with Croatian and Hungarian railways, have agreed that the timetable for this period will be 2012–13, for the train of the citadel to be changed in the sense that the direct passenger connection of Ljubljana–Budapest will be established through Zagreb. Otherwise, I must say that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space devotes special attention to the integration of members of nationalities with the country of origin in international public rail and bus links. Despite the temporary withdrawal of this passenger train from the established timetable, which is conditioned by these works on infrastructure, the possibility of connecting Hungary to local trains remains in the Pomurje area. However, Slovenian railways are negotiating with Hungarian railways to introduce the new Murska Sobota-Budapest direct train, which will provide appropriate railway connections. Some fundamental interest in such a link was also expressed on the Hungarian side. I must say that at the Ministry this intention to establish this link at the level of the Slovenian Railways is also strongly supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u236	Complementary reply Dr. László Göncz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u237	Thank you very much for your answers, Mr. Secretary. I didn't expect you to be more specific about the reasons. Therefore, from this I find that the most important reason is the electrification of the track and the technical solution, this bridge is supposed to be carried out through Zagreb. All I'm asking is: Do you think that this problem will be satisfied, or these needs, with the possible establishment of a new connection between Murska Sobota-Budapest, because I did not speak explicitly from a pomor but a slightly more easterly point of view? Is it really because I did not get information about this, perhaps just in the background of the lack of passengers? In short, I am satisfied with your information, and if so, it will endure in the long run, but in the short run, these doubts are only present. If you have anything else to add to my question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u238	Minister Zvonko Blackach. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Well, in this case, the only reason to modernise the line is. In 2013, more pronounced closures will be held between February and April, then by the month of July and then in the third phase, between July and December, on individual sections of this line, first the Lipovci-Murska Sobota, then the Ivanjkovci-Ljutomer and in the last phase, the Ljutomer-Lipovci. The only reason is the modernisation project. We would also like to establish, through this project, an upgrade through electricity and through the standards that we are obliged to follow, a real basic pressure, higher speed and everything else that follows this modernisation, so that this route will be trained in such a way as to receive as many passengers as possible. Last but not least, the ministry's policy over the past period has been to increase the share of public bus and rail transport and our intention is to maintain this transport capacity and this permeability in the future and raise it to a higher level. Thus, this amendment to this timetable is of a temporary nature and is conditional solely on the implementation of more extensive reconstruction works.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has a question for the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Mr Radovan Žerjava and Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs Mag. Andrea Vissiak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u241	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Believe me, I'm not happy to ask and ask questions about unemployment, though. On the basis of statistics, in August the unemployment rate was 11.6% in Slovenia and over 15% of registered unemployment was registered in 15 municipalities. These are not municipalities associated with the regional development partnership of Pokolpje, such as Dobrovnik, Kuzma, Lendava, where they exceed 20%. I come from the Radeče municipality, which already has a registered unemployment rate of 19%, but we have new problems with the Radeče Paper factory and its subsidiary, Muflon. Thus, unemployment can be increased to a huge 25%. Recent data show that while registered unemployment has decreased slightly in some statistical regions, in most statistical regions it has also increased. It has risen in the Coastal-Kraška region, Notranj-Kraška and Central Slovenia statistical region. The promises do not indicate that the number of unemployed will decrease; or, in other words, there are no solutions to increase the number of employees. Companies close doors, serious investors, not Slovenians, but foreign companies, there are no ones to wake up production. However, municipalities with problems of high unemployment have no resources for development, they deal with social issues, so they have major problems. But if we still have a congregation like Radeče, or Zasavje, which still has problems with road infrastructure, then you know where we are. Under the Act on the promotion of coherent regional development, the Government may adopt a decision on additional temporary development support measures for the high unemployment problem area. That is why you, distinguished minister, who, I know, in the case of the Radeče Congregation, are working hard and I am grateful to you for every minute you have dedicated to solving this problem, I ask: What measures are you preparing on the basis of these Articles of the Law on the Promotion of coherent regional development aimed at reducing the number of unemployed? I will propose that the Government's decision will create new problems for areas with a high unemployment rate, or that the development partnership area of Radeča and the whole of Zasavje can be extended to the development partnership area of Pokolpje. We know that the municipality of Trbovlje has 18% unemployment, so I am interested in your answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Mag. Radovan Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u243	Thank you very much for that question. The Law on coherent regional development provides that the Government may adopt additional temporary measures of development support for the problems of high unemployment areas, provided that internal structural problems or external impacts make the economic situation worse so that the level of registered unemployment reaches a critical limit, provided that development policy measures cannot improve economic conditions. The problem area with high unemployment can only be a narrow area of several municipalities, where at least 20,000 people live. Based on an expert analysis of the development problems of the area where registered unemployment has reached a critical limit, this means that the level of registered unemployment in the administrative unit is at least 3 months in a row of 17 % or higher. However, the economic, social and social indicators of neighbouring development-related and related areas are also taken into account. A professional analysis shall be prepared by the Service in cooperation with the Regional Development Agency and the development institutions operating in the area. The Government shall determine the problem area with high unemployment by a decision published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The programme prepared by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology should be based on a regional development programme and should contain a whole range of content. For the district of Radeče with its surroundings, I can say that at the Ministry of the Economy we will check all the possibilities or if the situation in the municipality is such that it can meet the conditions for the implementation of additional temporary development support measures for high unemployment areas. As you said, at this point we have two problem areas, in Pomour and Pompeii. However, I would also like to thank you for this proposal to see if it is possible whether there is a legal basis for attaching the matter to or bringing to any of these two problem areas, such as the Cholepius, as you yourself have proposed. In short, we'll look into the matter and we'll give you the relevant information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u245	Thank you very much. And my opinion on this question. In fact, the Member concludes his question in the Radeče Congregation, or that work, mainly because of the bankruptcy of a company that has left a lot of gaps and a large number of unemployed. I believe that the key problem of the area we are talking about is not in certain specific measures, such as active employment policies or other measures, but, above all, infrastructure. As there is a specific problem of some oblivion for the development of the economy, the problem of this part of Zasavje is, of course, similar. Therefore, I think that the strongest and best development project that can solve a number of problems is the third development axis. The third development axis can bring these places and jobs closer and perspectives closer, and this, in my opinion, will solve the vast majority of the problems. At the Ministry of Labour, of course, we also develop new programmes of active employment policy. If we have a basis in what Minister Žerjav said earlier, we will also be able to make special programmes or special benefits for a new area, but I believe that this problem would apply also in the way we have already dealt with it; therefore, we will find a buyer for this particular factory, which would consequently provide 100 and more jobs that have been in the past, which will also have a drastic impact on the unemployment rate in that environment. The second solution is better infrastructure connectivity, which is mainly reflected in the modernisation or implementation of the infrastructure that is responsible for Slovenia in this millennium, so I think it is better to go this way or in this direction to find solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u246	Thank you. Will Mr. Han request a supplement to the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u247	Thank you very much. You know all the efforts of the Radeče congregation and individuals, as well as you, the distinguished minister, to resolve this bankruptcy in the end, but sometimes some short-term measures must be taken that will be immediately taken and that may make it easier for an investor to purchase this factory. Believe me, as a citizen of the Radeče Congregation, it is not easy for me to ask such questions about unemployment — what I said earlier. Second, the third development axis – yes, Minister Vizjak. I absolutely agree with you, but I am afraid, given that we have been in politics for some time, both you and I, we will be waiting a long time for this third development axis, unfortunately, to be built on this central part of Slovenia, so this probably will not be the solution for the unemployment of our congregation. I am pleased with Mr Žerev's first reply, in the first part, when he said that they would study in the Government, whether such a decision could be taken and if it would help to save several hundred jobs in the Radeče municipality, and not least in the Trbovlje and Hrastnik municipalities, where we know that we will also meet with the closing of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine, then I think it is wise to do so and unemployment will also be reduced here. I thank you both for understanding, and I hope that this work, which we have set up in some way, will continue, so that people coming from these congregations will also be very grateful to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u248	Mag. Radovan Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u249	I regret that we failed in the case of the Radeče paper shop. I personally became very involved before the bankruptcy, while there was no bankruptcy, trying to help the owner decide otherwise, more responsibly, we pressured banks, publicly, as it is called, we now engaged with a potential buyer from Turkey – we were not successful. I'm sorry that this would be the best development program to hire these people who lost their jobs in Radyce. I hope that we will find another alternative, but I am aware that time is not our ally, especially given that winter is coming and the technology that is there is just as it is and can also make winter on this technology, if it is not in operation, quite a waste. In any case, as I said, we're going to look into it and try to seduce it as it is right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u250	Thank you very much. You want mag. Do you want me to answer any more? [[No, no, ……]] It's mag. Stanko Stepišnik, who has a question for the Minister of Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Merry Christmas. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u251	Thank you so much for saying that. A nice greeting to all three ministers! Dear Members and Members! Dear Minister Radovan Žerjav, a number of measures have been taken to boost economic growth in the field of the economy. That's why I'm asking you: How many new jobs will be opened in 2013 as a result of the economic measures adopted for 2012? Can we, through industrial policy, economic breakthrough strategy, rise or through another strategic document that you will prepare for next year, monitor job growth through: A – growth of the working population – or B – as growth in gross value added – or C – as growth in investments that generate new jobs? When we look at the active population, it's always declining over a multi-year period. If there were 995 thousand working people in 1987, today, at the end of September, there were only 808 thousand. That's what you call a significant reduction. On the other hand, the number of pensioners since 1990, when there were 356 thousand and some, has grown to 569 thousand, so to speak, 213,000 677 more. It is true that the number of insured persons per pensioner fell from 2.5 to 1.5 or after home: 1.5 of the pensioner must somehow survive. Surely the solution would be to increase the number of active people and, if we want to get out of this economic inactivity, we should increase by 150 000 jobs or working people, which means that we should employ all unemployed, unemployed, and probably have some organised immigration programme to achieve this. Then go ahead, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mag. Radovan Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u253	Thank you very much for that question. Of course, it's investments that generate jobs. I have already said something about this today, what is important about this, what we need to do to make more investment come to Slovenia, especially those foreign direct investments, but I will talk in this reply mainly about what I know and what will be, how many jobs will be generated by calls already prepared and prepared. In view of the projects already announced and the applications received, some 2 000 500 jobs are foreseen and I will tell you through which calls we have prepared at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. So one that I have already mentioned is a public call to promote foreign direct investment in 2012, which will generate 507 new jobs. The following is a public call for co-financing the initial investments of enterprises and the creation of new jobs in the area of implementation of the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region in the period 2010-2015; it will create 120 new jobs. So-called tender 5.2.A, subsidies to start new innovative companies – 200 new jobs. Financing of technology development projects 2011-2013 – a thousand and 50 new jobs, a public call to promote investment in TI 2012 – 300 new jobs, a public call to promote employment in development firms, so-called dropouts – 320 new jobs. I also mentioned four procedures that follow the so-called special procedure under the Law on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investments, where we deal with four major projects of a size of two from 50 to 60 million and two more than 300 million euros, which would generate together, as I said earlier from a thousand 500 to 2 000 500 jobs. These are jobs that we know about, because they are calls and companies, not only foreign jobs, but also domestic jobs, and these jobs are able to be counted and then, of course, also controlled. However, we do not know about the jobs created by foreign investors and domestic companies that do not apply for individual tenders, I believe, if we insist, we will insist on creating a more competitive business environment in Slovenia. Some measures, however, must be recognised that we have taken measures that go in this direction and we will also do so in the future, including measures or projects that are at the table at this time, and yet not accepted, from regulating the labour market to working relations and related to the financing of the Slovenian economy, I believe that these jobs will be significantly more in the future. I say this on the basis of what I have already said today, there is an interest in foreign direct investment in Slovenia, but it is up to us to create an environment; for the first time, a stable political environment, as well as an environment where foreign direct investors will be able to detect some stability and the opportunity for their capital invested in the Slovenian environment to be well fertilised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Request to complete the response. Mag. Stepan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u255	Thank you very much. I'm pretty happy with that answer. I would like to continue to add value to the employee. This is said to be true if we monitor the added value to the employee, then we are monitoring the economic growth that we have increased this added value in a certain year. The added value we know can only be increased by investing in R & D and greater investment in R & D would also mean greater added value to the employee. You probably have a strategy designed to ensure that gross value added in Slovenia, which is about 19 billion, brings the most manufacturing activities – 6.7 billion or 34%, trade, maintenance and repair of engines – 18%, construction has fallen, barely 6%, transport and storage 9%, etc. These percentages mean some weight. That's how much someone carries to this gross added value. You probably have a strategy in place to call for calls and European funds to prepare a supportive environment for the growth of these activities, which will bring the most gross added value. Because one is an increase in the number of workers and the other can be achieved by increasing the added value in these sectors. The question is: Are you also able to anticipate after these activities, how many calls will you call for and how many new jobs will then be created on the basis of innovating existing products per company, whether they are services or products, or even by introducing these new products? This is said to be the case with public calls to support research hours that I am concrete, and investment and technology equipment in these companies, or to accelerate one investment cycle in this research and development and technology field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mag. Radovan Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u257	You have raised important questions in this second part. I'm afraid that's a little far from the basic question, and I'll say, I don't have all the data. I'll just tell you my thoughts. I absolutely agree with you. Two important points: added value and jobs. The invitation to tender, which is currently under way and is a result of my insistence, is a call for technology equipment, greenfield investments, with job conditions. In short, combining the two requirements that you yourself mentioned: firstly, technological development for new technology equipment, and also new jobs. But there's something else I wanted to add. We have a new financial perspective ahead of us. It is true that the funds in this financial perspective will definitely be less than they were available in this financial perspective. While funds have not yet been set aside. Negotiations are currently under way on this issue. But my intention is to make at least 50% of this reduction of funds available for, if you want, economic development in the broadest sense of the word. The other 50% for infrastructure that has not yet been built, which we need to build, environmental, road and so on. But that one part of these funds, which will otherwise be cut down, is intended for what is the biggest problem in Slovenia at the moment and where these funds are actually the most needed. I will certainly take a strong stand for this in the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Will you request a discussion on the answer? [[Yeah.]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u259	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I ask that public hearing be made. I might add, however, that these investments, which have also been mentioned by the Minister, or all that is involved in the investments of renewable resources, energy recovery, foreign direct investment, fast road, hydroelectric power plants, which we have planned for about a billion thousand, energy investment, another rail track and so on. If these large infrastructure investments were to be opened, at least 50,000 jobs could be opened in Slovenia. For this reason, I join that, in addition to small investments across villages and regions, at least one, one, two or three major investments should be opened, so that the impact in 2013, 2014 and 2015 will be what we all want: economic growth, a smaller public deficit, a smaller debt and a better social situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of Wednesday's vote on 21 November. We turn to the next question, the question of Mr Ivan Grill, who has a question for the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u261	Thank you very much, for your word, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, a nice greeting to you all! Bees are an increasingly endangered species in Slovenia. Climate change, adverse weather events, irresponsible use of plant protection products is one of the key reasons that threaten bees. However, we also face frequent wild animal attacks. I also have in mind a bear that can use its attack to do enormous damage and destroy entire families or whole beeswax. In my office, a beekeeper who has been attacked three times by a bear — not him, but by his bees — has reported to me three times in recent years, even though the plot is fenced with a meter and a half high fence, has alarm devices, and has various obstacles to accessing a bear, and they are not part of it. This obviously means that it will also be necessary to find a systemic solution with the help of both the profession and the state, so that beekeepers with beekeepers who have beekeepers will probably also be able to resist this in areas where a bear is present. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: Whether the Ministry is preparing any professional solutions, advice and, last but not least, financial means to help ensure that both beekeepers and small farmers can prepare or prevent bear attacks and other wild animals and that in cases of such damage, we can remove administrative obstacles and many excuses that prevent compensation, although compensation is the least important in bees, since it is more important that the lost bee family has a huge negative impact, especially on our agriculture. So please, if you can answer me: Are there any solutions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Minister Franz Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u263	Thank you, too, for this question, which is true from year to year, more often. This is a problem that occurs partly in Slovenia through and due to the healing processes, where, in fact, living space is slowly changing and where we sometimes have not met wolves, bears, they are increasingly meeting and there are also these critical encounters, as in this case. Even in bees, this is one of the major problems when a bear becomes a honeycomb, it is a big danger, for it is obviously very good for him. It is not a problem, as you rightly said, just a loss of honey or a broken stump, but also a loss of a bee family that is most precious to beekeepers. As regards the Nature Conservation Act, which regulates these matters in section 92, it is logical on the one hand that each of us must protect this property in accordance with the system of protection and protection, but we know that the usual safeguards in this case are sometimes unsuccessful. Of these systemic questions you ask, what the state is already trying to do to help owners in the past is to co-finance the purchase of electricity grids and also passive appliances. It was co-financing of up to 60 % of these costs. It is true that these tenders have not been issued in the past two years. In addition to these alarm systems, no other system solutions are in sight or are not available within the Ministry. With regard to the construction of these protected devices and this has also been made up of certain materials, which has also been published on our website, Ways of protecting domestic animals on pastures and other property from free living animals with electrograves, and has been prepared by the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology, it is also said as a professional guide, and they also help with their advice by advisors to the Agricultural Advisory Service and also the Commissioners of the Institute for Forests who assess this damage. As I have already said, unfortunately at this point we do not have a set of these measures that would, in addition to the usual ones, provide more active and quality protection in circulation. As regards damages for which countries are also obliged to pay in this case, they shall be made in accordance with the procedures. It is true that what just confirms your claim that this damage also increases from year to year, so that we have major problems in this area, both the country in the field of big beasts and the hunting family, especially in the area of wild pigs and deer, which to a large extent is doing this harm. Representatives of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, the Institute of Forests, our co-workers from the Directorate, I myself have sat at these meetings several times, we all note that the real change in this living space is due to the healing process one of the biggest problems and that in this area it will be most necessary to make these movements in order to remove this growth.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Will you request a supplement to the answer? Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u265	I agree with you, Mr Minister, that the healing is one of the main reasons for the bear to get closer to the settlements and also to the beekeepers. However, as I have asked you in some way, it is not the expectation of both beekeepers and probably the breeders of this little thing by some financial means, although it is also a good thing, but they are now faced with the fact that the measures that these advisory services have already recommended cannot be defended. In particular, this example that I mentioned: the whole plot is fenced with a meter and a half high fence, the alarm devices are and other obstacles, and in this case this was not enough, the bear came to the parcel without any difficulty, devastated the beekeeper, the bees, the damage will only be detected in the spring when it is seen how many of these survived. It would therefore be expected that these professional services, both the Institute of Forests and other competent services, would approach certain measures, in particular in terms of advice, education, even through beekeeping societies, so that beekeepers would also be able to oppose this. In particular, I would appeal to you to try all those who then describe the damage, to really look for how this thing is handled as soon as possible, because in view of the experience they have and with which I have been familiar with it, it is those who are trying to find out in some way that the main culprit for the damage then the beekeeper is due to the lack of measures, rather than looking for a way to recover the damage as soon as possible and that the funds would be recovered as soon as possible, although this is very little of a resource compared to the damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Minister Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u267	Just for a moment, thank you for these guidelines and in some ways we will also take your thoughts into account. In the case of experts, as we have already mentioned, the move we have just said is the animal stock itself. I must say that there is a lot of controversy in this year's year, similar to every year when experts draw up this proposal for a shooting. I have to say that I simply followed their recommendations, and I also signed this shot at the time, despite opposition to the work of the public. Thus, solutions must be sought in all these measures, in addition to stocks, reactive measures. But as I said in the introduction, I also have one e-mail coming out of the seventh, eighth, when a beekeeper writes that when a bear gets used to honey treats, nothing stops him. This is also a problem because, according to the physical strength of this animal, the problem is after these reactive measures, given that this fence and the electricity grid are sometimes ineffective, given what I have read, that it is in fact a strong desire for this sweet substance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin has a question for the Minister of Finance, Dr Janez Šuštersič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u269	Dear Minister of Finance, Dr Šuštersič, as is known, wishes Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor to improve its capital adequacy by selling the Maribor Insurance Company and other activities, thereby strengthening the foundations for the growth and development of the bank and its group. In this way, the Bank wants to ensure by the end of this year a capital ratio of the highest quality share capital, the so-called Core Tier 1, of at least 9 per cent. In line with this plan, activities are already under way regarding the possible purchase of donated instruments and the recapitalisation of the bank. To say right away that in Positive Slovenia we absolutely support such a way of saving the bank and that we are well aware that a bank that has not yet had a strategy has not carried out an internal restructuring, not least I don't even know if it knew the extent of the bad claims, so it is clear to us that the bank must first be disinvested, that its activities must be restructured and finally recapitalised so that it can go on the market. But lately, when we're talking about different signals, there are also some records in the media, some signals that this process is somehow stopped. Therefore, Mr. Minister, let me read you just some of the titles from the media, although I know you know them for sure, namely: Is the Maribor Insurance Office even for sale, the Lobist Impact in the Maribor Insurance Office, Šušteršič lit the red light Savi Re and so on. Mr. Secretary, that's why I'm interested: Is your ministry even interested that Nova Kreditna banka Maribor sells its share of Maribor Insurance to the best bidder? It is known that Kad and the Court, in particular the Court, should not take part in the recapitalisation of the insurance undertaking by the end of this year. Given that there are also some records of the role of the Ministry, in particular your State Secretary, Dejan Krusca, in the sale, as we have seen in the media certain attempts of pressure on the authorities of the NKB, I am interested, given that the AUKN is, under the current legislation, the one who does not have some specific powers but has the powers of the Office, and that the National Assembly also receives some relevant information: What's going on here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Minister Dr. Shušteršič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u271	Your Honor, thank you for your question. Thank you also for your introductory support for such resolution of the recapitalisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor, which is why I will not further substantiate. Thank you, too, for reading some newspaper headlines, and I happen to be more informed than the press about what we do at the Ministry, so usually I don't even follow these addresses. That's the way it is. The Municipality of New Credit Bank Maribor, where the country has a majority, has adopted a recapitalisation programme. This recapitalisation programme was also confirmed by Banka Slovenije. This programme includes, inter alia, the sale of shares in the Maribor Insurance Company, which was assessed from the perspective of the NCBs as a non-strategic investment. The only interest of the Ministry of Finance in this is that the sale actually takes place and that the sale actually takes place by the end of the year, because at the end of the year the deadline for recapitalisation by the regulator of the Bank of Slovenia has been set. We, in so far as we are involved in these processes, derive from this interest, which is the legitimate interest of the one who owns the bank and is responsible for its capital adequacy. In this context, we have no preference as to who may be the buyer of Maribor Insurance. We supported the management's decision to go into some open process of looking for a buyer through a call for proposals. We wouldn't care who this buyer is in the end. Of course, if it is the best bidder or in our interest to sell it at the highest possible price, this means the most funds to recapitalise the NCBs. The only preference, which we have also expressed publicly, was that we would like such a sale or purchase of the Maribor Insurance Company from the NKB to be done without the involvement of public funds. That was the point that was problematic for us. In this sense, state funds or even insurance companies operating within the framework of Kada would have played a very important role in some of the financial structures that one of the potential buyers tried to put together. This did not make sense to us because, as you know, the state has already reserved certain funds during the previous term or recapitalised Kad and Sad in order to have this money reserved for possible bank recapitalisations. We used some of this in the summers at the New Ljubljana Bank and we want to keep this reserve precisely for this purpose. We do not want this reserve or any other liquid assets arising from the sale of certain shares, such as the sale of the General Sailing, which was also a controversial decision of the Soda, to be used to help some other entrepreneurial projects, such as the fact that Sava Re buys the remaining portion of the Maribor Insurance. I mentioned earlier the Blue Insurance Company, which also participates in this, as we are informed. They are very difficult to convince them to participate in the recapitalisation of Cimos. There was some talk about that today. That's where 3,000 jobs are. If you compare this with any question whether it is now meaningful to participate in the purchase of Maribor Insurance, I think it is clear what is of greater interest, even if you want, countries. That's something we've made clear enough. We don't have, or I don't have any leverage as Minister of Finance to ban that kind of work. Nor did I, nor is my Secretary of State, who helps with these matters, perhaps more informed because he has more time for some operational interviews. The only thing we said was that if it was already necessary to engage public funds, it should be temporary and only to help some private capital engagement. Such scenarios are also possible. Sava Re, as we have been told voluntarily, has also sought out potential private co-investors, and so far she has not been too successful, and I would like this to happen, because in fact this transfer of public money from one recapitalisation to another does not make any real sense. The European Commission's action or decision on unlawful State aid, which we have already discussed today, also partly stems from the fact that this has been or has been done. I would be very happy if there were a healthy private investment instead of buying it with state money here and there, from the left to the right pocket.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u272	Will you request a supplement to the answer? Mr. Chehovin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u273	I must say, I am quite pleased with the Minister's response. In fact, I think the transparency of sales must lead us all, I'll say, the government, your ministry, and not least the National Assembly. That is why I think it is good that I understand that you have actually given a mandate on behalf of the Government to talk to all serious providers without the participation of state funds. Well, I figured that out. It is normal that in these records there are also some such things that further sales may be affected by a government economic visit to Russia, so that after one possible version it may even lead to the fact that Nova Credit Bank Maribor does not sell its half, i.e. the Maribor Insurance Office, at all. Therefore, you must also understand this concern in this sense, because it is two large if I use this term, associations of financial importance, in particular for the northeastern part of Slovenia. From this point of view, I think this position is correct. However, I think it is right that we agree together that sales must be transparent.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Minister, Dr. Schusterschitch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u275	I'm really glad we agree on that. Thank you for that positive response. I would also say that what the Government or the Minister of Finance can do is that sometimes we have a conversation that is non-binding, informal, where people find interest in certain sales or whether there is something similar. We don't make any deals. If sales were to occur at any time either to Russian or to any of the partners, this should be done through transparent procedures. We were convinced that it was the Slovenian State Holding that could provide an environment in which this would take place more transparently and more clearly without the direct cooperation of the government or the country. Clearly, we are still a little distant from this solution in order to do so. However, there is an interest, in particular for the insurance sector, for the telecommunications sector, and in particular for the banking sector, in particular, through measures to clean up bank balance sheets. We are also unfortunately far from implementing these measures because of the referendums, so it will be harder to move forward here. It will be very difficult for us to find a buyer who would take over the banks with all the risk that is on them today, but it is also possible. I certainly agree with you that when this happens, when we decide to do so, we will have a mandate, either in holding or otherwise, this will have to be in a very clear, transparent manner, without any preference for customers, except for the price, and the best is to ensure the long-term interest of these companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič has a question for the Minister of Finance, Dr Janez Šuštersič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u277	Dear Minister! Exactly six years ago, workers employed in Austria, in Gornja Radgona, had a banner at the protest saying, "Work and work, double pay taxes." I hope and believe that this sentence and this kind of performance will no longer be repeated. I believe that, despite the fact that we are in the amendment to the Income Act, which was discussed at the 20th extraordinary meeting, and we also in Positive Slovenia will confirm that the novel is suitable for further consideration, but on one condition that you will delete certain nonsense from this law. One such nonsense is in particular this additional abolition of personal relief for our employees who solve their employment problem in the way they themselves know, because you know that the state of Slovenia has failed, despite all the measures taken to save Pomurje in order to ensure an adequate number of jobs. That's why, as Minister, I'm asking you: What will you do to put an end to this nonsense in the proposed amendment to the law? In your explanation, you stated that, assuming the continued management of the debtors, the abolition of the relief would increase the revenue of the state budget by about two million euros. Well, you probably know that in Austria there are quite a few thousand of our citizens, most of whom are the Pomurians, who will be the most affected by this solution. As you know, Pomurje is facing high unemployment and more than 8 000 unemployed persons are registered within the Office of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment in Murska Sobota. This means that the population of Pomurje is solving the problem of unemployment by employment abroad or by daily work in Austria. People who were unemployed and would receive unemployment benefits and thus burden the public finances of the Republic of Slovenia have found work in Austria, and now you have decided to even punish them. Mr. Minister: On what basis did you decide to impose an additional tax burden on these people?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Minister Dr. Shušteršič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u279	Thank you for your question. I think that we have already talked about this a lot in the context of the general examination of the amendments to the Income Act and that the entire history of this measure has been clarified. Let me briefly summarize what seems essential to me once again. For the first time, what needs to be understood is by no means double taxation. It is about the fact that in Slovenia – I think since 2004 – there is a system of global income taxation, which means that everything that someone who is a resident of Slovenia earns anywhere in the world is taxed on income in Slovenia. We can have cases where someone abroad pays more tax than they would pay here, then this difference in tax is due back if there is, of course, an appropriate agreement to avoid double taxation. But there is also a case, and the case of cross-border workers in Austria is one where someone working abroad pays less tax on his income than he would pay from the same income in Slovenia. The reason for this is that we are obviously more taxed in Slovenia than in Austria. This then has to pay the difference in tax in Slovenia; it is between that tax he paid abroad on their scale and that which he would pay if he earned the same income in Slovenia. There are two ways to view this matter; one is that you presented that someone who works across the border and would otherwise be unemployed without it is now being punished. But you can also see that compared to someone who works at home, he is rewarded. Because someone who earns the same amount in Slovenia with their work pays more tax than one who earns the same amount abroad. It has already been asked whether such treatment is discriminatory, whether it is constitutionally permissible, that taxation varies according to where income is earned, in people who are both tax residents of Slovenia, both live in Slovenia and so on. This requirement is in the opinion of the Constitutional Court, and it is likely that it will take a few months for the Constitutional Court to decide on it, and I think this is also important for the way in which this issue is resolved. Also interesting is the difference in these numbers. We have when you ask me for analyses, we have looked at the data that the tax office has on this, the tax office has information that it is about a thousand 500 workers; indeed many of them come from the border municipalities, indeed most of them are registered earnings from Austria, but it is also a good part of them that has permanent residence throughout Slovenia. There are also some on the coast and in Ljubljana and in Kočev. It is said that in congregations that are not so close to Austria, however, they report income from there. Most, more than 90 percent, and their earnings are on average one and a half average Slovenian wages, most of them somewhere between one and two, it is also not some very low income. These are the data we have, of course you, and their representatives are talking about a lot more people, more than 10,000 and so on. Interesting is this difference in the number of people in the tax records and the number of people they say they represent is in itself something that the Tax Administration should probably deal with. With the representatives of the civil initiative representing these people, we have met, and they themselves have expressed some awareness at this meeting, awareness that it is a non-systemic solution, but that with some additional relief from income, this problem solves that there are different ways to solve this problem, which would be more systematic. We have been asked to be presented with these proposals. If we find that these proposals are an opportunity to compromise, even in the light of the fact that a constitutional judgment is under way in the Constitutional Court, we would also be prepared to give up some of what we are proposing, perhaps agree that this problem will be resolved once the Constitutional Court has a well-known position, in one way that would be different from the present one, but acceptable to both sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Request for a reply, Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u281	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I'm not satisfied with the answer to that, and I hope you'll understand these people. For example, since we know that in Austria taxation is slightly lower than in our country, in this case we tax them further if, for example, they paid more in Austria than we pay in Slovenia, would the Republic of Slovenia refund them the difference that they pay more taxes in Austria? We need to understand that these are people who have solved their problem themselves so that if they were lazy, they could be a burden to this country. They didn't, but they go with the belly behind the bread. You must understand that such people should then be respected and literally given a hat down and bowed down. It is good that you found yourself, you said, living in Ljubljana, on the coast, in Prekmurje, wherever you are, and you know how many hours they spend driving back and forth, and you know how their families live when their parents are not home, how much they pay for their children and so on. You know, these people, also because of that salary, like you said, they get a little bit more in Austria, they over-census and they're not competitive and they have to pay kindergartens at full price, they don't have any benefits, and then they also benefit from health insurance in Austria, or in Italy, especially in Austria. If they happen to benefit from health services in Slovenia, Slovenia gets a refund. So, instead of putting these people on their own, let's reward them, Mr. Minister, we're punishing these people! I therefore ask you for an additional reply: Will you, and how will you, if you do so, help to eliminate this nonsense and harmful clause in this new law?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Minister Dr. Shušteršič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u283	I have already said that their representatives have also agreed that it would be better to deal with this problem in a different way. We are still waiting for their proposals, some of them mentioned, I would now not go into the technique of this, but we will wait for what these proposals will, once again, sit down, see if any solutions are possible, maybe even any postponement of what we have now proposed. After all, there are more important things in this law than, say, flat-rate taxation and so on. As I said, if there is an agreement between countries on the avoidance of double taxation, and we have it with Austria, then those who pay a higher tax abroad than they would have at home have the right to a refund; not from domestic tax, but from foreign sources. So he gets part of the tax he paid abroad, back from where he paid it, of course. At least that's how things are clear around here. We also have cases in Slovenia, but you will agree, people who, say, drive from Murska Sobota to Obala to work, we have a lot of them in the police department, at least that's what the records look like. This was also one of the problems we dealt with in the Public Finance Balance Act, the amount of travel costs incurred here. Thus, not only are these people who drive — if they do — from Kočev or from the coast to Austria, but also those who drive from the Murska Sobota to Koper are equally admirable and might deserve some tax relief, but they do not.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural request? Please, Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u285	I can't do it anyway, Mr. Vice President. I'm not satisfied with the Minister's response. I see the Minister is standing in his position. He explained to me how he came to this and with your presentations as you look at this problem — we certainly do not view it the same way. I must warn you that in Positive Slovenia we have confirmed the amendment of the law at first reading, but in the second reading we will oppose this novel in case you do not correct it. However, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that we hold a public debate in the National Assembly on the response of Minister Šuštersič. Although the marriage is under consideration and we will talk about this subject in a second reading and later, I fear we will run out of time. I think it's a topic that we should work out better and break down. In this country, we must be aware of the fact that a person who takes care of himself in this country because the state does not provide him with something and goes abroad on his own, takes care of the survival of his family, and eventually brings money from abroad to the state of Slovenia, where he spends it — these people need more respect, not even extra burden! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u286	Thank you very much. The decision on the proposal to discuss the response will be taken by the National Assembly on Wednesday 21 November 2012 in the framework of the votes. We're moving on to the next question mark, that's mag. Mr Leila Hercegovac, who has a question for the Minister of Health, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u287	Dear Presidents, distinguished Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! The irregularities in the Department of Transfusion Medicine were, in your opinion, Mr. Minister. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Ten. 2012 you stated to Work that the management of the institution has committed a number of irregularities, not only in public procurement but also in the service of money with freshly frozen blood plasma. The employees of the office resent you, and that's what Part 16 says. Ten. 2012 where you unduly attacked the institution of national importance and distorted not only the reputation of the institution, but the reputation of the entire transfusion service. We'll see the consequences of the bloodletting. On 20 September 2012, a replacement was made of members of the Board of the Institute appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. 25. Ten. 2012 you dismissed the director of the institution. Experts say that discharge was irregular and illegal, as you did not comply with Article 39 of the Law on Institutions. We hear it was 14. 11. 2012 an invitation to an interview on the procedure before the extraordinary termination of the employment contract. The question for you, Your Honor, is: Have your reports of multiple irregularities in the Office of Transfusion Medicine been confirmed? On your initiative, they also dismissed the Director of the Institute, who claims that there were no reported irregularities, since the Minister did not issue a decision indicating these irregularities and indicating the measures and deadlines for their implementation. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Minister Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u289	Thank you for asking. No one who has been accused of doing anything wrong has immediately admitted it. That's a fact. On the other hand, the supervision has been carried out and has found many irregularities, and even in the opinion of the profession, including lawyers, it is that the decision can be taken into account where something needs to be changed, while the findings of the commission for enforcement of the facts which no one can correct in return. In particular, this is a matter of avoiding public procurement, of increasing these value contracts where tenders are needed. It is an unjustified payment of labour performance at the expense of recognition of a greater market share than in fact, as noted by the Internal Auditor of the Transfusion Medicine Institute, who, by the way, eventually resigned and left the house, probably due to pressure on it. There are irregularities within one important call for a single information system, STEIS, where there are many irregularities; there are no more tender documents available without signatures, no bank guarantees, etc. There's a lot of these irregularities. These were also the main reasons that led the board of the institution to suspend or not to trust the director of the institution. I must say that at this time, even when certain broadcasts were being made, I have made it clear that the Institute for Transfusion Medicine is merely a matter of management problems, not of professional problems, that they are working at a high level and that the profession has never been at issue in this part. At that time, I was also regularly in contact with the Red Cross leadership, who did not detect any fall in blood supply, and actually would not be necessary. It was also pointed out that there was no evidence of any misuse of blood in the sense of misuse. However, the management's decision on overpriced prices was taken, where I also pointed out that this was not illegal, and in fact it was not correct, given that it was actually for very high profits in fresh frozen plasma. The current €63 was acknowledged by the Institute to Maribor and Celje and its price was €280 per litre of fresh frozen plasma. And for blood products where there was, say, a higher price than the price of preparation and processing itself by 80% than, say, abroad – we compared Belgium where margins are usually 6%. That was unfair, not as a reason to get rid of it. Thus, the main reasons for the administrative nature, the irregularities, were obvious. Otherwise, the director may claim not to have committed them, but the papers say otherwise. This will prove itself, given that the procedure goes forward. I think that the discharge by the Council of the Institute was reasonable, but I think that if the Director has decided to give up his working relationship for these reasons, he has done the right thing. That's my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Mag. Hercegovac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u291	Unfortunately, Mr. Minister, in health care, we're wondering why a change of leadership was needed. We ask ourselves: Is this possible reason for finding irregularities this moment, 2009, when the outgoing director arrived, due to difficulties in cooperating with Educell? Is this why you participated in the world of Isol Hospital in 2003-2004, when you were hospital director and he warned you about the poor operation of the hospital? Is there a reason that there was resistance at the Office for Transfusion against changes to the Rules of Procedure? In fact, the National Drug Supply Programme arrived at the Ministry of Health table in September 2011, the Section Council discussed it in February 2012 and has not yet adopted it. Or is it really political background? In fact, prices are being developed, Mr Minister, on the basis of the Regulation on the methodology for determining the prices of blood products, which was adopted at the Ministry in February 2009. I'm asking nicely for your answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u292	Minister Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u293	Thank you. More than written and proved that the irregularities were, that there were no calls, that the values were exceeded These are just numbers, data and documents and if you don't understand it, then I, unfortunately, can't help you. [[...]] And in every matter, looking for where fraud is happening — and unfortunately, in health care too — then we cannot reveal it. I think that this is exactly what we need to do, especially in the face of the financial distress that health care is in — and we know that there are lobbies in health care, that we need to expose them, and that we need to punish them — in this case only financial in nature — too. I hope that the epilogue will continue elsewhere and that the police will also intervene because I do not think it is possible to work and do business in this way. As I know, Mr Velušček is not the first time in such a story, but he was before I was before he met me and it has nothing to do with politics. Of course, I believe you don't believe that, but that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Here you go. You're obviously going to ask for a discussion on the answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u295	Yes, I ask that the debate be held under Article 246(2) on irregularities in the Office for Transfusion, where the concerns are that for personal reasons we also replace directors. The next is the director of Isol Hospital, then the Clinical Center, then the pediatrician, the director of pediatrics and so on. So we can always find what we want, but the reasons are not valid right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be discussed or decided on Wednesday in the framework of the votes. Here we are, Mr Mitja Mershol has a question for Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is absent. But you're going to ask the question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u297	No, I'm withdrawing the question because the minister is not here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u298	Okay, thank you very much. We turn to the question of Mrs Tina Komel, who has a question for the Minister for Economic Development and Magnitude Technology. Merry Christmas. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u299	Thank you for your word. It has been statistically demonstrated that tourism is one of the leading and most important economic activities that enables many tourist-receptive countries and regions to develop more rapidly, to integrate into international trade and to grow their personal standards and to grow their lives. The role of the government in tourism is very important as it adopts strategies for Slovenian tourism, creates the competitiveness of tourism offers, sets a vision for development, objectives and basic areas of tourism development. Tourism is a real big opportunity for Slovenia with about 12% of GDP created, including its indirect effects on the economy. Dear Minister, I ask you: What is the strategy and what are the main measures of the state and your ministry in 2013 to develop coastal tourism and how does your ministry work with coastal municipalities on the development of tourism?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Mag. Radovan Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u301	Thank you very much for that question. I'll try to answer you in four points. Point one. Call for proposals for regional destination organisations. In 2010, the Ministry launched a call for funds from the European Regional Development Fund to carry out the activities of regional destination organisations. Even then, due to difficulties in obtaining the consent of the Council of the region or the consent of all municipalities to carry out the tasks of the regional destination organisation Obala-Kras, it was not possible to register at one of the time limits for the opening of applications. We have decided to proceed with the re-launching and implementation of the invitation to tender, so on 7 September this year we have issued a renewed call for these funds from the European Regional Development Fund for the implementation of the activities of regional destination organisations, which was intended only to establish the regional destination organisation Obala-Kras. Given that this regional destination organisation has not re-registered at the second public tender, the tourist most developed region is at risk of losing its regional level of organisation of tourism and resources, estimated at EUR 400 000, which could have a significant impact on the development of tourism, visibility and tourism in the region. As a result, the central strategic objective that we have already set ourselves in the past period will not be achieved. It is anticipated that this same invitation to tender will be repeated in 2013 and we hope that in the developing region they will bridge disagreements about the host of this function and will successfully apply for a call for proposals. Point 2. Ownership of tourist companies. We estimate that one of the elements affecting the lower competitiveness of the destination in relation to comparable destinations in the world is certainly the undeveloped ownership structure of tourism companies in the coast, where financial holding companies sometimes exhaust tourist companies to cover losses in other areas. This concerns me personally, not only at your end, but also at some other ends where the tourism economy is used to cover some stories that have been misdirected on some other stories of these financial holding companies. In the framework of its competences, the Ministry will actively try to participate in the search for new strategic development partners in this area in order to try to say so, to mitigate the danger posed by this exhaustion of these companies, but to find those strategic owners who will see this basic activity in these companies, this is core business tourism, not to exploit it for some other stories. Point 3. Development projects. We would also like to point out that comparable tourist destinations in the world are investing in development, complementing the tourist offer, which has an impact on increasing competitiveness, while in the area under consideration, for example, there is no agreement on the construction of the so-called golf course in the hinterland, because there is no agreement again. Such a tourist offer would certainly have an impact on the extension of the tourist season [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] , closer cooperation in the field of agriculture and so on. I mentioned one of the cases. For the time being, the issue of this place of golf courses on the Coast remains open. The Ministry supports it, including the efforts of the tourism economy and hopes that local communities will be able to provide replacement land to carry out this project in the future. 4th point. Area of promotion. You know, however, that we have provided sufficient funds to finance the promotions of Slovenian tourism and the area of the coast, Crassa is one of the key tourist regions that is always present in all forms of market communication of the Slovenian tourism organisation not only in the domestic market, but also in foreign markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Mrs. Tina Comel.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u303	Thanks again. In 46 kilometers of Slovenian Istria, we all agree that, regardless of the acute economic situation, it will be necessary to seek sustainable development, quality and human resources development, as it also says in your programme. You say that tourism is one of the most important economic and strategic sectors that generates new jobs and has an extremely positive impact on balanced regional development. You say that Slovenian tourism has shown markedly positive growth trends over the past ten years, both after the growth in the number of tourists and overnight stays and the increase in tourism flows. So, after all, and after the 2013 budget review, I have only one question; Does Slovenian Istria have no meaning for Slovenian tourism because you did not foresee a single euro for the development of tourism in this region? I think it is time to move from words to actions and that everyone might be aware that, given the current level of development of Slovenian tourism and the existing development potential, tourism can become one of the leading sectors of the Slovenian economy in the coming years and thus make an important contribution to achieving the development goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Minister Radovan Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u305	Yeah, you'll probably know that, of course, the funds for the tourist infrastructure are distributed through invitations. The calls for tenders will also be envisaged, based on the European funds provided through the so-called overcommitments. All calls for European funds will be published at the Ministry of Economic Development by the end of this year, about 30 different calls, including those related to tourism infrastructure. If companies from the coast report any relevant projects for tourism infrastructure to these calls, the funds, like all other tourist companies, will also be received. I don't see any reason to create and panic here because it's just gone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u306	Thank you very much. The Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku, will ask Mr Peter Wilphan a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u307	Yes, thank you for your word, Mr Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! Dear Minister Turk, my question relates to the Children's Guidance Act, which was adopted in this House in 2011. This law also officially mentions for the first time the autism or problems of children with autism. Before this problem existed in Slovenia, the official institutions did not deal with it, and the parents or guardians of these children were left to themselves, to their ingenuity and, in my opinion, to the saddest, their financial abilities or incompetences. All those who face this problem, or I will say, who face this problem and deal with it every day, of course we were satisfied at the time of the adoption of this law, but what if this satisfaction took only a short time since it soon became clear that there is a very long way to go from the adoption of this law. First of all, one postponement followed, now we are witnessing a new proposal to postpone the implementation of the law for another year, on 1 September 2013. I don't know if you can imagine what it means to a child's autism for one year or even more years without help, professional support, educational process and everything else that could or should belong to him. This is a time or period that cannot be compensated in any way and can have a decisive impact on its future and its ability to participate in society, life, education and other processes. Therefore, my question to you, Mr. Minister, is as follows: Can you today, in this House, ensure that the parents or guardians of the child for an autistic disorder next September 1st, 2013 are able to enter or send them to school or any other educational institution in which they will work with them, on professional grounds, as is the case in virtually all countries of the European Union and in many other countries that do not? Can you provide this with the authority of the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, and with your personal help? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Dr. Mark Turk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u309	Yes, thank you very much for asking. A short answer to your question would be that we would do everything at the Ministry to be positive. You are right, the Law on Children's Guidance with Special Needs was adopted in July 2011 and set out a series of novelties that cannot be realised without prejudice to many other laws and regulations, nor have they been professionally supported, nor have they been financially evaluated, so there is now a proposal for amendments to this law in Parliament. I think there's going to be an extensive debate in the National Assembly on Wednesday. In fact, it is less difficult to harmonise the law, since before this law is implemented it is necessary to amend the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education and to prepare adjustments or changes to individual programmes or interventions in the organisation of teaching. It's kind of hard to do these things in the middle of the school year. This is, in fact, one of the key reasons why the entry into force is to be postponed to 1 September 2013, i.e. to the start of the new school year. The objectives of the proposed amendment of the law – as I say – will be here on Wednesday and likely to be a long debate on this on Wednesday – are directly linked to the effective implementation of this law, in particular with the provision of Article 20, which provides for institutions carrying out professional tasks which are not defined in the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. In addition, a number of amendments and additions to certain programmes and organisational changes to the implementation of the law need to be made to ensure smooth implementation of the law. The provision of Article 1 concerning the possibility of prolonging the education of persons with moderate, severe and severe mental disabilities is now not only about autism, but about all existing mental development disorders which require intervention in the school network and the amendment of the specific education and education programme. Complementing the definition of children with special needs with a group of children with autistic disabilities also requires a preliminary decision on their way of education and the possible preparation of a new adapted educational programme, or the renewal or updating of existing ones, so that on 1 September they know exactly what programme these children are working on. Additional professional assistance is defined differently in the law as well as the way it is implemented, which again requires interventions to change the organisation of teaching and also to provide operators of those forms of assistance. All the activities necessary to make this law actually work from 1 September 2013 – 1 September 2013 will be, I will say, a very practical consequence for the parents or guardians of these children – they are running at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Mr. Peter Wilphan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u311	Thank you for that comprehensive answer. I would be even more pleased to say that on September 1st, yes, not only will he do everything in his power, but I believe he will do. However, as regards this debate you discussed, unfortunately this debate will not take place on Wednesday, because there are no amendments tabled, so it will only be possible to give opinions from individual parliamentary groups. That is also why I, Mr Vice-President, propose that, under Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, we hold a general debate on this response from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. We turn to the question of Mr Dragan Bosic, who has a question for the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žig Turk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u313	Hello again. My question relates to the activities carried out at MIT in Cambridge, according to the Institute of Technology, Massachusetts, where our students at the University of Ljubljana, in cooperation with the Institute of Chemistry, have achieved more than a remarkable result, that is, you are probably aware of this, you are certainly aware of this; the second place in the competition of 190 internationally recognised universities is not small. It's about systemic biology, it's about an area that's very attractive from the point of view of health, pharmaceuticals, pharmacology. In the course of this competition, they have reached the first place in health care, but in total, I think Groningen beat them to the punch. That means they were better than hosts, than MIT, than Berkeley, Beijing University, say Shanghai, if I just listed a few more famous ones. And my question concerns the reward or encouragement of these young researchers. It's a postgraduate course. It's certainly a good result. And first, I want to know: Have you rewarded these people and their mentors in any way? That would be my starting question. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u314	Secretary of State, Dr. Mark Turk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u315	Thank you very much for your question. This is actually a very great success of Slovenian science, including mentors of the junior Slovenian sciences in international competition, proves that Slovenian science is ready for globalisation and can compete equally with the best in the world. I also take this opportunity to congratulate young students of competition, especially their mentors from the University of Ljubljana, the chemical institute and also the centres of excellence. It's about the awards. State awards are defined by laws, in some cases by regulations. Such awards are not foreseen for such cases, but such awards are, of course, taken into account under different criteria when these young researchers compete for projects when their mentors compete for projects at the Research Agency. All these things point out, all these things are taken into account, and the game will be better. I would also like to say that when there is such a greater international success, which we somehow cannot formally reward, but we want to draw attention to it, we want to give recognition to those who have reached it, as well as to encourage all others to participate in similar competitions to prepare a reception for these contestants. I'll do something like this on Friday, November 23rd. And I will be very happy if he joins one of the members of the National Assembly to congratulate the successful team together.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u316	Request for complete response. Mr. Dragan Bosic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u317	If I understand the rules correctly, it is also possible that instead of an additional response to recommending some activity, I do not know what to call it. I'm very pleased with what you said, certainly. And that's what it looks like. Perhaps, as an idea, some initiative, if I use this term, might suggest that this share of research would certainly be considered in those areas where they are successful, perhaps to give a little thought to how it could increase within the budget or within everything that is available. And the initiative that the Minister of the Economy might also consider that these things would then be applied in some practical way at some appropriate time when they would turn into some useful innovation. Once again, it's a very big deal and it's a very large area. In fact, just to warn you, they developed gene switches in the membranes using biological drugs. This is of global importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u318	Thank you very much. This was an initiative, not so much a request for an additional question. I think so. Mrs Tamara Vonta, who has a question for the Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenak, is next. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I'll be relatively brief. We know that we are talking about the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights issued on 2 July in the case of Kurić and others against Slovenia. I want to know: Where are they now, to say, these procedures or this group that is supposed to be formed and should seek and seek a systemic solution to the issues deleted? We are speaking, of course, at the first stage of intangible damage, which can then be accompanied by a further lawsuit of material damage. I want to know: At what stage of preparation is this systemic solution now? How does this group work? And I'm also interested in: Is it possible that a group or generally competent ministry may engage in any discussion or conduct any dialogue with deleted persons, in particular so that, in those other actions that may follow and that relate to material damage, they may find the most appropriate solution for both parties? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u320	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u321	Thank you very much. I have already answered a similar question to someone else, or I do not remember who, however, should be stressed on June 26th this year, a judgment giving the country of Slovenia a three-month deadline for a specific 6 people, namely EUR 20 000 for each and EUR 30 000 for the total costs of the proceedings before the court. I must point out that this part of the execution is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, so that I can only give you an indirect answer, indirectly, because this part was saved by the State Defence. As a member of the Government, I have access to materials, and I can say that this was, of course, also settled and paid for 14. 9. 2012. As far as the so-called material damage is concerned, the court did not say that they must reach within three months, but called on the parties to try to achieve it. This part was also managed by the State Defence and not by the Ministry of the Interior, so I can only answer you directly again. In fact, since this agreement has obviously not been reached, the Government is 21. 9. 2012 sent a message to the European Court of Human Rights that this problem will be resolved in a common package of all. The government also appointed a special working group, which has the task of doing two things, for the first time, by 26. 12. is expected to submit a plan, 26. 6. This should be adopted next year, in the same way as the judgment. The government working group is working, and I expect the work to be completed in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u322	Completing the answer? No, no, no. Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next question. Mr Branko Ficko will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology mags a question. Happy Zerjava.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u323	Dear Minister, although there has already been a talk about tourism today, my question is more in terms of the economy of tourism or profitability, as in the period 2004-2011 tourism has been heavily invested and employed, especially in tourism capacity. At the same time, of course, we have drawn on the EU funds above average. In the 2013 State Budget proposal, the tourism measures are projected at a low of €62 million, and your Secretary of State explained on the Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly that tourism measures are not intended to increase the capacity of tourism, but are intended exclusively for promotion. And on that basis, I'm curious: What concrete plans of the Ministry in this area, of course, are higher in terms of available resources, especially in terms of tourism product? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u324	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u325	Thank you very much. It was said under one that, of course, despite all the criticisms we received this year, we provided the appropriate means for the appropriate promotion of Slovenian tourism. The result, of course, is that tourism is also growing as it has grown so far this year, in this crisis year. And I believe that this trend, which is, will be maintained in the future. I will now speak, of course, for 2013, 2014; the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has total €40.26 million planned in both budgets for the purpose of promoting the development of tourism, of which €27.06 million in 2013 and €13.2 million in 2014. The decrease in funding between 2013 and 2014 is due to the fact that most of the projects co-financed by the EU are being concluded and that most of the funds already spent are already in the context of the priority focus on increasing the competitiveness of the tourism economy, which draws on EU funds to promote the development of tourism in the financial perspective 2007-2013. The measures and activities defined in the Slovenian Tourism Strategy 2012-2016 will be implemented through the above-mentioned funds. I have here one table I can show you later. For 2013, it may be possible to fly the numbers that follow these €27.06 million in 2013. Of this, about a million 200 will be devoted to the development of tourist destinations, 18.7 million public tourism and other important infrastructures, investment in infrastructure in a broader sense 570 000, human resources and innovation and international cooperation 200 000, sustainable development of tourism 70 000, quality assurance 80 000, enhancement of the visibility of Slovenian tourism 4.2 million euros, provision of information, support for the development of tourism 120 000 and public agency SPIRIT, a new agency that will be dedicated to almost 1.9 million euros in tourism. That's 27 million. As can be seen from this, the funds will be allocated to the development of the tourist destination. Of course, European funds are also involved, where projects for the establishment and operation of regional destination organisations close in 2013, tourist infrastructures where EU funds are also included, where most of the projects supported in the past are concluded, and the remainder of the funds will be supported mainly by public tourism infrastructure, and in the round-up I have written: natural and cultural heritage. This measure also includes funds for the project Strengthening the visibility of Slovenia as a tourist destination, about EUR 4 million, in order to compensate for the loss of national funds for the promotion of tourism. As for the Agency, the new SPIRIT agency, which will include the current WTO Agency and promotion support, I have already said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u326	Thank you very much. Complementary response. Here you go, Mr. Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u327	In fact, it is a matter of achieving the objectives with the available means, especially the profitability of the industry, because analysis shows that we did not fall physically, that we have a very inadequate relationship between costs and revenues, and that in 2011 the industry created a Circus of EUR 64 million of loss, that is almost a circus as much as we will invest in the next, it is said that the real decline of the circus is 19%. There are probably reasons for low prices, since if we compare with Austria, prices are two to three times lower. Today's tourism industry is over-indebted that we have ownership exhaustion through financial holding companies, a specific Sava example, and that we have low quality services and non-motivation. The objectives and measures should also be aimed at equity restructuring, in particular the enhancement of product and service quality, and not at capacity building. I want to know: What is your opinion on this and what else can the ministry do in this area, especially in terms of the higher service offer? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u329	I absolutely agree with you as far as ownership restructuring is concerned. I think this will be one of the urgent priorities for the future. It is true, however, that this does not depend on the minister or the ministry, given that ownership is known to be whose, and the state has relatively little to do with it, with the exception of the Roman termins. In any case, it is my opinion, without finding a suitable strategic partner, if we are talking about our work, about northeast Slovenia and the thermals that are owned by the holding company, the company, whatever we say, Sava, or not least about the Coast, which we were talking about before, without finding some new owners here who will not simply exhaust this destination to the end and to the place, in my opinion, we cannot count on this trend, which we are now pursuing and is positive, good and respectable, and we can only put a hat down. Capital exhaustion is, of course, possible for a short period of time. For years and years of similar functioning, this tourism will not be able to do so, given that it is clear that the return on capital within tourism is 5, 6, perhaps 7% and nothing more. If we exhaust these companies to the end, to the new development, to the new services with a higher added value, as you say, with that, I will say, higher tourism, but there will be nothing. I have personally so far, and I will also engage in the future in the search for potential strategic partners. And I have already spoken publicly about the fact that there is an interest in investing in Slovenian tourism, both in Turkish capital and in Azerbaijan, not to mention Russian capital. At this point, however, we will have to re-evaluate and assess whether, at any given time, the owners will decide whether to sell their companies, for example, to which of these investors, who are interested in taking over, in order to bring in foreign guests, customers with thick wallets and so on. In short, I think it is crucial, and here I am most concerned, about the ownership consolidation of Slovenian tourism in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u330	Thank you very much. We continue with the next question. Ms Jasmina Opec will ask the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Zvonk Černač, and the Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u331	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister! The problem of the transmitter in Pečarovci in Puconci municipality in Prekmurje is one of the stories that our country and the protection of the human rights of its citizens are not at all worthy. Moreover, this case clearly shows that in Slovenia all citizens are not in the same position, that there are also citizens, forgotten by all state institutions, who should work for the benefit of all, regardless of their education, social situation, place of residence and others. The saddest part is that such ignorance results in people getting sick and even dying. Let me briefly address the issue of the transmitter in Pečarovci, which has been going on since its establishment in 1991, which is 21 years. The transmitter has been the target of the polemic all the time, mainly because of its disputed location near the church, where children visit the religious community, near the children’s playground, in the middle of the most populated area, where the impact on the health of the population is the greatest due to radiation. Due to the ever-increasing updates of the transmitter, it is also becoming increasingly dangerous from year to year. This is why the population in this area is working to move the transmitter to a location where the impact on human health would be lower. In the past 20 years, the Pečarovec Regionals, united in a civil initiative, representatives of the local community of Mačkovci and the mayor of Puconci Municipality have sent a number of letters with calls for assistance in solving this problem, both for the leadership of RTV Slovenia and its organizational units Broadcasters and Communications, the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ombudsman. A number of discussions have already taken place at the Commission's petitions meeting and for human rights and equal opportunities, but no longer than 20 years of correspondence, despite the fact that Puconci even introduced the replacement location of the transmitter into its municipal spatial plan. People are becoming increasingly desperate because their commitment to improving their own living space is practically a battle with windmills on the wind, accompanied by a great deal of ignorance and velocities. Even in Prekmurje, people deserve a decent life, a healthy and secure living environment, so I ask you, Your Honorable Minister: What activities can be expected in the future in order to ensure that the will and protection of the human rights of the Pečarov peoples will be heard and that the transmitter will finally be moved to an uninhabited location where it will not endanger the health and life of the people? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u332	Mr. Minister Blackach will be the first to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u333	Thank you very much. I think this is a more question for a colleague, given that the area of electronic communications falls within the competence of the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport. With regard to the UNO, mentioned above, the Puconci Congregation, I can only say that this UN has not yet been adopted, is still in the draft phase. A comprehensive environmental impact assessment is needed, but I don't think it's a formal obstacle to this, more than a 20-year process. In such a way that the place itself in the spatial plan in order to address this issue should not be an obstacle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u334	Here you go, Minister Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u335	Thank you so much for asking. You're actually right. The case has been pending since the installation of this transmitter in 1991. The National Assembly also occasionally discusses this issue. I think there was one debate here in 2003. However, it is necessary to know the following that it is a radiotelevision transmitter of Slovenia. The location of the transmitters and so on is, of course, their business decision, in which the country cannot be directly involved. I do not know any result of inspection which would indicate by measurements the excess value of electromagnetic radiation by this transmitter. But it's true that we got your question that way just before the weekend, and probably, I don't know if we could check all this stuff out. In short, there is legislation in this area, there are rules in terms of protection against electromagnetic radiation. I am surprised that these values have been exceeded that the movement of this transmitter has not been made in the last 20 years, and not since the spatial conditions for moving it have been regulated. In any case, it can be just, I'll say, the discomfort of the inhabitants, which I think national television should take into account in some way. Of course, we will, within our competences, fight for this factor to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u336	Do you want to complete the answer? No, no, no. Okay. We move on to the next question. Mag. Borut Ambrožič will ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u337	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to the ministers present and all the other colleagues, colleagues! Before I ask you a question, allow me to explain it briefly. The purpose of the Natura 2000 network is to preserve biodiversity by protecting the natural habitats of endangered plant and animal species important to the European Union. Slovenia, like all other EU members, is also obliged to define and maintain the Natura 2000 area. The legal basis for the establishment of these areas is the Directive on the conservation of natural habitats and wildlife species and the Directive on the conservation of wild birds. These two are pursuing sustainable development, i.e. social responsibility now, for the benefit of present and future generations. However, in Natura 2000 protected areas, human activity is not excluded, assuming that such activities do not endanger nature. The implementation of the European acquis is the responsibility of each EU Member State, or the implementation of the Directives is in the full sovereignty of each country, except when it comes to the exercise of another public interest over public interest, which is checked by the European Commission. On 29 April 2004, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia established Natura 2000 areas in Slovenia by a regulation on specific protection areas, which established 286 areas, 260 of which were based on the Habitats Directive and 26 on the basis of the Birds Directive. Slovenia has recently received an official reminder from the European Commission because it has not yet appointed all Natura 2000 sites, so I ask the Minister of State: Does the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment have a strategy to provide another 2% of the Slovenian territory where Natura 2000 should be established? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u338	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u339	Thank you very much. The question of Nature is one of the current issues that we are already facing, and I believe we will meet again in the coming months, just as we did in April, March, and above all in April 2004, when Slovenia, although it had a basic desire that the Natura area should be one of those areas that it could later introduce, should be accepted by the EU on 1 May. As far as data and the very basis for determining the Natura area are concerned, you have already made it clear that since 2007, Slovenia has had the first warning to violate the Birds Directive and also from 2012 to extend it to habitats. I must say that my predecessors have already faced the fact that in Slovenia, on the basis of these data, the coverage of 73% of what is expected, in the end, there was some open public debate and also the different opinions that come and are still present in such a process. At the beginning of my mandate, I also took note of this problem, including the information that the Department of Nature Protection, together with its co-workers, is preparing an expert proposal and that this expert proposal should be further public debate. As I have already said, in October then, the proposal was finalized, the contractor selected, who will also identify neural points in further procedures where nature protection and development are encountered, and we will in some way try to model these two problems as best we can in this part. However, procedurally, these proposals were presented and placed in public debate or for peer review by various departments from 15 October to the end of October. At the end of October, we also convened all Slovenian mayors in the field of changes or enlargement, in some cases also to reduce areas or to replace areas. And since then, it has been said since the end of October, we have given ourselves a good month of time to hold public debates by local communities or by the congregation individually or more. Practice is now taking place in Slovenia by gathering a group of municipalities, inviting the representative of the household exhibition of the Department of Nature Protection, including those who have been preparing, and also our colleagues from the nature protection sector are participating in these round tables or public debates. We expect that, as I have already said, in early December, the end of November, this process will be completed. The next step is to see and focus on the debate and business of different positions, on those neurological points which were unquestionably expected and also now show themselves, and then together, as I have already said, with those who have also been chosen at the competition, on a public invitation to do so together with us, we will then draw up this proposal, which I count on to be dealt with and adopted by the Government in the first quarter of next year. There will be a slight delay from that date that we have promised, but I appreciate that, given that these first warnings are being addressed, we are in some safe waters, that we really need to do these activities and finally in the country in open dialogue to discuss and weigh all the reasons for, against, even the professional justifications that are prepared, which are sometimes also the subject of various professional discussions. This is the way we want to do it in the coming months. Let me say here that, even in this case, these enlargements concern 75% of the areas within the forests, there are also many agricultural lands, and there are not usually those neurotic points in the implementation and co-existence of nature itself, but in many areas the interests of renewable energy, environmental protection, including transport infrastructures and similar areas, as well as the expansion of settlements, and we want to speak clearly about them in the open debate. Finally, the proposal goes to the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u340	Thank you very much. Complementary response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u341	Thank you again for your word. Thank you, too, Mr Minister, for a very comprehensive answer. I am pleased that things are going in the right direction, and I will be happy to accompany future steps by myself and the interested public. However, it is only possible, before I conclude, to add this, as an additional incentive, to the information that is also publicly available, it is also interesting to hear that when calculating savings on adequate protection and conservation, because I come from those places, the mountain bar, if they continue to serve tourism, water cleaning, air, conservation of the natural microclimate and so on, they can have up to EUR 190 million of them in the next 50 years, if you so wish, eco-climate. That is why I consider it to be worth it, as well as the majority of the professional public, that it is worth the effort and effort to preserve our environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u342	Mr Minister has answered, so we are moving on to the next question. Mr Jože Velinja will ask the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Zvonk Černač and the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u343	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Last week we were able to detect responses to the repollution of the Kotrederščica valley in Zagorje municipality, where, at the beginning of the 20th century, antimony appears in concentrations even above critical values, at a distance of as much as 5 kilometres between Ponočila and Kotredez. This mine has never been rehabilitated after its ceased operation, and it is particularly alarming that the operators of the mine at the time apparently have not even carried out the minimum necessary measures to prevent harmful effects on the groundwater and the environment. In a specific case, the municipality and the competent institutions in the country warned the locals of pollution after major floods in 2010. The analysis of the samples confirmed the claim, and the municipality did not improve the situation around the stream by using the local flood floods, but it did not repair the mine in terms of prevention of repollution. The question arises where are the mechanisms of the country to prevent such phenomena. The case is not the only one, because we have many similar cases in Slovenia, which the State has to take care of under the Mining Act to prepare conditions for the fulfilment of Article 100 of the Mining Act, which is to terminate the rights and obligations of the holder of the mining right and delete from the mining register. Since the payment of concessions is only a source of recovery for the period of exploitation after the adoption of this Article of the law, the State should systematically undertake the production of an examination of the unfinished repairs of abandoned mines and, in addition, monitor closed mines. In this way, the country could obtain adequate data on the state and extent of potential hazards of pollution and thus ensure that citizens use areas within environmentally-saved areas after completed exploitation. When will you make a systematic review of the unfinished repairs of abandoned mines in Slovenia with remedial measures?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u344	Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u345	Thank you very much for that question. The area of exploitation of mineral raw materials is regulated both by mining legislation and by legislation in the field of environmental protection, water and nature. In the event of a final closure of such an area, it shall be carried out in accordance with a project to suspend the exploitation to which the authorities responsible for the area shall give the appropriate consent. There is a complete and permanent suspension of mining operations leading to the final closure of the mine and the decision to terminate the rights and obligations. One such case, for which the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space is responsible, is the case of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, which takes place on the basis of the 2000 multiannual programme. A little less than €200 million has been earmarked for the final closure and rehabilitation of the area so far. This remedial work is expected to be completed by the end of 2015. The rest is environmental legislation, where the polluter pays. More than that, a colleague responsible for the environment will say.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u346	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u347	When the mines are closed, this environmental problem usually arises. And in this part, at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, as well as the predecessors at the ILO, we are actively engaged in two such mines. One is Rudnik Žirovski vrh. I also visited him last week, looked into the situation. I can say that in a way the situation is such that with a few parts, even with some monitoring then in a year, two of these works, which go beyond 50 million investments, could be completed. There's a reptile problem. Otherwise, we also deal with the valley of Mežíží, in particular by eliminating these consequences. Also in the budget for the following year, we have foreseen that these funds would be raised to those planned assets of the million where the consequences of this centuries-old mining in the Mežíska Valley are being eliminated. More than once, however, these problems from the past that were unresolved, as was this situation in the Zagorski municipality near the Kotrederščica watercourse. I have to say, I didn't know this problem before. The colleagues who are responsible in our ministry also reacted immediately after we perceived this. So they met and also took the first steps already responsible for the ADR, Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, Environmental Inspection in conjunction with the Institute of Health Care. Today, too, this first joint coordination meeting was held, at which the decision went in this direction to examine the situation in detail, and also to review this study prepared by the Maribor Institute for Health Care, to discuss with them. Together with the Food Safety Directorate, they shall determine if any intervention measures must be taken immediately to this area and shall also provide this reply and determine whether a decision on the rehabilitation of this area is required in the end, as is necessary for certain degraded areas in Slovenia. We know that we still have some of these time bombs, and from Celia's Cincarna all the way to the White Lands, the PCBs and the like. This case is already being dealt with by those responsible, and in a short time, I think that even this week, there will be a joint meeting with the representatives of the region from which this problem comes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u348	Thank you very much. Completing the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u349	With a question I would like to point out in particular the fact that there cannot be a key segment of ensuring an environment without the negative or even harmful phenomena of mining in areas where mining, underground or surface work is or is being carried out. It is problematic that the rules in force do not define the period from the end of exploitation to the establishment of the conditions for removal from the register or the definitive closure of the mine. In theory, this could be infinite. Therefore, in view of the assessment of possible negative impacts on the environment, it would be necessary to prescribe at least the minimum technical requirements and recommendations to be implemented by the mining right holder at a certain time. Here again, I can point out that the State must finance, as Minister Chernač has already mentioned, the closure of RTH at least to the extent that it provides security and prevents negative consequences on people and the environment. However, the next measure, which is not adequately resolved, is the monitoring of works carried out to ensure adequate minimum quality control of the closures carried out. Finally, the limits of the powers of the environmental inspection and of the mining inspectors should be laid down in the event of mine closure and control of the closures carried out. The question to be asked is: Who in the country takes care of the monitoring and control of works carried out after the decision of the administrative authority to terminate the rights and obligations of the mines has been issued and also has the power to act? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u350	Thank you very much. Minister Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u351	The first part is tied to a functioning mine or mine at the time of closure, when the holder of the mining right is also the one who brings the matter out. I can calmly say that I myself have been involved in some of these activities and there are real problems and most of the problems are related to the provision of sufficient resources at the time of implementation. In the congregation where I worked, one such case was a mine of brown coal. But before that, I said we're managing the closing of the Žirov Summit. If we make this comparison and also the quality of the closing works, I can say calmly that the Žirovski Summit is closing significantly more qualitatively and will end up with what you have now pointed out as a problem, in a detailed review of the activities required for the next year, we have very clearly defined including water monitoring, including monitoring of radiation safety, where nuclear safety inspectors are also present. So in this part, I think, we have this situation that from the past of closed mines there's a whole series of open problems that end up as some time-consuming environmental bombs, and then we put out the situation when these extraordinary things happen. The details of this legislation on mine closure and the extent to which work will be carried out, I do not know or have no insight into this part. While, as I mentioned, in the part where we are responsible as the Ministry for this Žirov Summit, I think that the matter and also in some way the views that have also been carried out by the European Investment Bank, which finances this exercise, and the cooperation of Canadian experts and similar, will be presented as one example and I believe that it will be resolved. In other areas, however, I think that we will still have to deal with and deal with this problem in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u352	Thank you very much. We continue with the next question. Ms Saša Kos will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs mag. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u353	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! Mr Minister, regardless of government promises to forward coordinated reform proposals to the parliamentary procedure, this cannot be said for the proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance. I will focus on this issue on my own today on women's issues, as the proposal, according to my assessment, causes them to be discriminated against in secret. The fact is that the proposed pension reform, if I say rather harshly, will be carried out primarily at the expense of women, even more, at the expense of educated women. In the first reading, you have listed among the more important objectives the very equating of pension conditions for men and women. But I'm asking you all nicely and correctly: Why did you set such drastic measures in the draft law and so radically intervene during the transitional period? I'm asking you: What exactly is your purpose? The provisions of the law clearly show that in a very short period of six years, women's working hours will be extended by two years. If we add to this the time of the ongoing pension reform in 2000, this period will last for three years, that is to say, 2008 inexactly. So in the case of a highly educated woman, you have made it impossible to exercise the right to reduce the age due to the care and upbringing of children. Is it not, therefore, a disguised discrimination against women who, in the proposed way, take into account their application in a socially beneficial area at the time of work taking care of children and families? Why is it so unacceptable for you to have a transitional period for equalising the retirement age for men and women until 2027, such as for you, at least as the ability to understand from the media, proposed by some social groups. I'm also asking you: Have you already made changes in this area in the context of social dialogue that will eliminate the proposed anomalies? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u354	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u355	Your Honor, thank you very much for your question. You were asking about the purpose. The purpose of the SPIZ 2 proposal or the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which is currently in coordination, is to reduce differences between men and women, not to create differences. For this reduction we also introduce a relatively long transitional period, you mentioned six years. Six years is not a short transitional period; we believe that, given the challenges of the crisis, this is a relatively long transitional period. Why? Why are we doing this? Why such measures? The numbers, the honourable Member, are inexcusable and say the following. For women, the period of retirement in the last eleven years, from 2000 to 2011, has been extended by four years and seven months. Or, if I simplify, every year, on average, women receive a three-month pension longer. In the same period, pensions were extended to men for only one year and seven months. Under the line, women's pensions are five years longer than men. This is a very simple reason why we balance the pension conditions for men and women. Another important reason is that you ignore it and probably only have educated women in mind. This is because of the relatively low retirement age of women who retired earlier and with relatively low pensions. This is why we have a major problem in particular with women at high risk of poverty when women are relatively high age. That is why it is in everyone's interest that women's work is extended as well. Thus, we are driven by a simple logic because our life span is getting longer. We just want to ease and not extend the period of retirement. If we want the pension to be worthy, of course, the pension period must also be relatively longer. Nevertheless, we maintain, say, positive discrimination for women, i.e. at the same working age or retirement age, a higher percentage for women. So far, we have also had the opportunity to apply a reduction in the age limit when both men and women retire. We now assign this right to the woman or to the person who enforces the leave for the protection and care of the child. We also compare men with women for work before the age of 18, namely, under the current law, the reduction in the age limit for work before the age of 18 can only be applied to women and not men. And, Your Honor, you pointed to some discriminatory, called approach to educated women. And I'm rhetoricalally asking you why, for years of study, we would have a reduced retirement age in educated women, industrial workers, for example, traders and the like, but we wouldn't have cut it short. It is only natural that these women work for 40 years or 38 years, but it is not obvious that educated people, both men and women, would work comparatively for a long time.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u356	Thank you very much. Here you go, supplement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u357	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have partly satisfied me with the answer, but I would still like to warn you about a few things or disagree with you. In fact, you're the one who discovered that I touched educated women. That's what I wanted to point out. They spend a lot of time, that's what they say. As they later take up employment, they probably go to retirement later on. This means, as a result, that when he is employed and now, in the present time, where employment is such as it is, you can expect these women to work without knowing by what year, given this proposed pension reform. I think that, despite all this, we should focus on the fact that these women are much later employed than the women who work is said to be, as you mentioned, traders and so on. However, I also touched on the fact that these women, who are the second branch, well, somewhere I would say, another population, are also born, like educated women, and are certainly discriminated against because they probably have more children than those who are then in some way educated and later employed women. With low pensions, I would also touch that pension is already low. Even during your reign, pensions have been reduced, as we have said many times. And there's something else I'd like to say. Since young families are now supposed to show up or have as many children as possible in order to fill the pension registers later, it is clear that such admissions [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u358	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u359	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Not only women, but also men who study, who study, who get a job later, and I don't see any reason why some people would admit circumstances because of this study, but others wouldn't, say, men. This is exactly where you pointed out that women get jobs later. No later than men studying. And it is true that women give birth to our craftsmen, which is an extremely important role for the preservation of the nation, and not least for the maintenance of the pension system as we know it, so we generally recognize women's lowering of the age limit when they retire, but under a certain condition of retirement. In doing so, I must remind you that during the pension period, a full period of care for the child is taken into account, both in the first three months and in the next nine months, which means that this year has already been paid for each child in one way or another and has paid contributions for the pension and disability insurance, and then, finally, when the age conditions are reduced, we recognise it as the first child of six and for every further 10 months of the reduction of the age limit. I estimate that we have taken this specific situation duly into account here. It is true that we do not generally acknowledge this to men, as the law so far stipulates. In fact, so far both men and women can enforce this. I think it's only right for a woman to say that. One more thing. If you want to remember, in 2005, when I was also a minister in another government, we stopped the fall of pensions with one simple provision to align pensions with the rise in wages and not with the rise in the price of living costs as before. With this we have made a significant contribution that pensions have been better coordinated than before because we have lived in a period of conjunctura, when wages have grown significantly faster than inflation. As a result, by then the pension had been poorly coordinated and then significantly better. I would therefore like to reject this observation so that, of course, we do not react significantly at the right time. One more thing. The pension reform, as proposed, will halt the fall in pensions. In fact, under the current law, pensions will continue to fall and will be miserable in three, five years or less, so it is very important that you listen to the calculations of this pension reform. You will see that because of a few tight retirement conditions, a few years longer work may make it possible to expect a substantial higher pension.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u360	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Ivan Hršak to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u361	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister Andrej Vizjak, as you are probably aware, DeSUS is in fact the only right social party in Slovenia to care for workers, young people and, of course, pensioners, especially older persons. Pensioners are among the most vulnerable groups in society. Due to the ageing of the population, special attention and care should be given to the institutional protection system, assistance in domestic care, including organised assistance to my family, the extension of access to services at home, the application of assistance services in another family, social services and investment for the construction of shelters and homes for the elderly. Due to the magnitude of the problems that already cover a third of the population of Slovenia, DeSUS has foreseen and proposed the establishment of an office for the elderly in its programme. The latter was also a coalition commitment in the previous term, but unfortunately it was not implemented. In recent years, science and politics have found that European and Slovenian societies are rapidly ageing and that the task of ensuring quality ageing of the population will overshadow other sustainable development tasks in the coming years. The data point to the need for active engagement of the Slovenian political and social environment to address the integrated problem of ageing society and thus of longevity, and it is therefore necessary to establish an organisation that will deal comprehensively and in an integrated manner with issues relevant to older people at government level and as a government institution provides cooperation with non-governmental senior organisations in identifying problems and drafting legislation, designing policies and monitoring the implementation and effectiveness of their actions. The Office must also act as advocate of the elderly, whose task is to represent the interests of older persons seeking assistance from institutions such as social work centres, courts, police and other public institutions. My specific question is: Mr. Minister, can we even expect you to take an active approach to the establishment of an office for the elderly? If your answer is no, my question is: How will you address the issue of solving this complex problem? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u362	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u363	Dear Member, thank you very much for your question. Maybe there's a mini replica at the beginning. For the elderly or for all generations, it is not only your party that is concerned, it is likely that they have programmes such as to develop intergenerational solidarity, cooperation, all parties, parliamentary and non-parliamentary, and this is an extremely important issue that you raise. Why? One simple indication that the life expectancy has increased by 30 years over the last 100 years. Today we live on average 30 years longer than we lived 100 years ago. It is said that a new generation has come into this world in 100 years, or exists in the world, and this raises huge questions in front of civil society. As a result, the idea of setting up an office for the older fruit of the different institutions was one coordination committee of senior organisations of Slovenia, and then reminding you that the Council for the Solidarity of Generations, which was appointed to monitor the implementation of the strategy for the protection of the elderly 2006-2010, also during the implementation of the objectives of the strategy, has drawn up a decision on the organisation and work areas of the Office for Older Persons. However, at the same time as the crisis and austerity measures, this implementation has stalled. And that doesn't mean that this idea is dead and in oblivion. On the contrary. In view of the demographic situation, we believe that the need to establish such an office is still present. The Office of Older Persons would justify its role in promoting, adapting the country more rapidly to an ageing and long-term society and in coordinating the measures and targets adopted between different departments, carrying out a number of other tasks related to monitoring the situation of older people and achieving the objectives of both laws, constitutions and international conventions. We believe that cooperation with local communities and civil society is also needed. By the way, I should also mention that this step would also ensure the evaluation of individual objectives, monitor and measure the impact of individual policies set in this area, particularly in this cross-cutting and coordination context. We therefore estimate that the establishment of such an office makes sense, and we will approach it as soon as, as we say, we break out of this gruesome volume of rationalisation of the public sector and the state apparatus, so the establishment of an office for older people will also be among the objectives of the strategy for the quality ageing of the population in Slovenia by 2020, which is now in preparation. However, the Action Plan will provide for its establishment for a period when it is possible to provide financial resources for the operation of such an Office.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u364	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill? Here you go. You don't want to. Okay. We're moving on to the next question. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs mag. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u365	Thank you so much for saying that. Good evening, everyone! Dear Minister Vizjak, my question concerns agencies that provide workers to other employers. The question is: What will you do, Mr. Minister, to prevent the abuse of workers employed by agencies for the intervention of workers to another user? And secondly: Is there any possibility or position of yours that these agencies in the Republic of Slovenia should be abolished and the placement of employment returned to employment institutions? These institutions have fewer and fewer tasks and responsibilities as companies increasingly employ through labour agencies. Why is that? It's an interesting question. I'm sure it's all about the benefits that one employee and the other have. Workers are becoming increasingly exploited with such jobs, and the word "new-day slave" is the most appropriate term to describe the situation of these workers. The Act on Working Relationships in Article 59 time limits work with the user for a maximum of one year. After one year, such an employee was to be employed by an economic company for an indefinite period of time, but most of the time he was not employed. The Agency for the Intervention of Workers shall send workers to another agency which shall conclude a contract of employment with such worker to the same employer for the same work. The Agency for the intervention of workers shall hide such a way of working and declare that the employee has decided to enter into a working relationship with another agency. It's a job chain through agencies. This method of employment benefits mainly the agencies that receive commissions for each worker from the company that hires and also charges the employee’s commission, including from 13 salaries and other incomes, in the case of monthly personal income. That's why these agencies have big profits, and that's why they grow like mushrooms in the rain, and they come to us with multinationals. I repeat, it is the exploitation of these workers who have no prospects for the work they are doing, and less than regular employees are getting jobs. These workers have no hope of employment and no prospects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u366	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u367	Dear Member! Thank you very much for your question. The Agency's work is also considered to be a welcome addition to the labour market. It effectively fills certain gaps that other institutions do not. This is therefore not the conclusion of the Ministry, this is the finding of other social partners and trade unions. Of course, there is also a lack of respect for legislation, abuse, but this is, in fact, about the same extent as with other employers. In view of the worker's legal position, it is crucial that he respects his legal rights, in which case the employer, this is the agency which, of course, then conveys his work to the user. And as a result, your first question is how will I guarantee – with the work inspection part, which is responsible for identifying all violations of labour law, both in the agency and in any other work. There's a feeling that this is huge. This agency work is, on average, a visa in Slovenia to other European Union countries. This is about 1%. 1% of all jobs are through the agency, which means that Slovenia is still developing here. It is true, however, that we also want to introduce certain additional safeguards through new labour law and labour market regulation legislation so that there are no side effects. You mentioned this current solution for one year, which, of course, is supposed to be a fuse, but as you can see, it is not and it is a very bad solution. We therefore advocate that employment for a certain period of time in the agencies be very similar to that of other employers for a certain period of time. So that all employees who have been employed for a certain period of time with agencies would have the same rights and the same limitations, and higher limits than they have today. That is why, of course, we have proposed quotas in the law that has been tabled in Parliament. This is strongly opposed by employers, so we are also considering alternative measures to discourage employers from working for a certain period of time, in the sense that we are comparing this form with the form of employment for an indefinite period, for example, that employers are also obliged to pay the worker's pension after a certain period of time, as this is not the case today. And other certain different forms. And the employer, in this case the agency, can hire the worker for a certain period of time and transmit it to the other user or user only if the user fulfils the conditions laid down in the law under which a fixed-term working relationship may be concluded. This is an important fuse. On your second question, I would like to point out that when you talk about why agencies and why not the institution, we have to separate between two concepts, one is the intervention of work, the agencies do it, and the intervention of employment. The key difference is that the agencies employ and transmit the worker's work to the user, while the Employment Office provides employment, which means that the unemployed person is included in the employer's employment or that the worker who is not yet unemployed will, as soon as possible, be placed in another job without interruption. This is a big difference, so there are also different institutions involved. It is true, however, that one of the models is also how to transform the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment into some kind of umbrella national agency for the intervention of work, but these changes are not yet foreseen through this legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u368	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the answers? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u369	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. I think that with this legislation we should really make sure that employment through agencies is disstimulating for employers, because I really think it is not everyone's, but there is a lot of such exploitation of workers. I studied a lot of these literature available these days, and I was appalled at how many larger companies employ workers through agencies, from Krka to Elan, because I also wrote some data, but I didn't spread it too much. In short, I propose that the Ministry also ensure that the inspections are supervised by these agencies and this work so that the exploitation of these people does not occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u370	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u371	Thank you very much for this initiative. Indeed, both the work of agencies and of course others is and must be subject to inspection. Therefore, I also ask you, if you have any specific information regarding the infringements of the law, you can tell us. This can also be reported on the telephone answering machine of the work inspection, where anonymity is guaranteed precisely because our goal is to find as many of these anomalies as possible. I also agree with you that, according to the example of some other countries, it is wise to make certain safeguards regarding the establishment and functioning of agencies, some countries also have a provision in the regulation of the work of the agencies that they must guarantee with a certain amount, say 25 minimum wages or whatever, that they will fulfil their obligations to the workers they hire and then then transmit their work. The acute requirements for social security contributions are somewhat higher than the regulation of normal employers. However, once again it has to be stressed that this has not fallen apart in Slovenia and if I should, I should also warn you, if we were to restrict the work of agencies in Slovenia with our legal order, it means that foreign agencies could work with us. For there is free movement of goods, services, people in the European Union, in this single market and nothing prevents anyone from having, for example, an Italian, Slovak agency providing work in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, I think it is wiser to regulate this with us, to ensure that the infringements do not take place and that they are timely sanctions if they do. There's a guarantee that even if there's a breach, such an agency can fix it. And if they gave these extra fuses, they probably wouldn't be like mushrooms in the rain, they wouldn't be so many, we have a few hundred in Slovenia, but it would probably be something bigger, which means probably some more employee safety, because larger institutions are more difficult to afford infringements. You are also right that some of the larger companies serve this work. I also know a company that employs over a thousand or 2,000 people and has some 100 agency workers. In fact, I wonder how such a company is worth outsourcing a human resources service and looking at an agency as far as personnel are concerned. But these are the business decisions of these companies that I find difficult to get involved in.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u372	Thank you very much. Would you like to make a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u373	No, just thank the minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u374	We are moving forward with the next question, which is to move on to the second round of questions of Members and Members. Mrs Alenka Koren Gomboc will ask the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Zvonk Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u375	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Minister of Infrastructure and Space Mr Zvone Černač! We are increasingly aware of the need to increase the energy efficiency of buildings. There's probably more to it than that. The financial crisis dictates a reduction in the cost of living, the extended heating systems require renovation, more stringent legal requirements are coming, which are likely to result in almost energy inadequate buildings within a few years. European countries stimulate energy renovations of buildings, offer different solutions, some are more friendly, others less. Slovenia has already taken major steps in comparison with some. It is easier for individuals and legal persons to switch to alternative sources of energy. So far, at least as far as public institutions are concerned, the state has supported energy recovery more on paper. In particular, the implementing documents and the real desire to make real changes on the ground were lacking. The profession also pointed out that it might be good to consider, above all, changing the system, particularly in the public sector, where recovery should be further accelerated. Finally, this is a very important factor in the possible start-up of the investment cycle, which would be very welcome for the Slovenian construction sector and the economy as a whole in the current crisis situation. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Space issued a public call for the co-financing of local-owned public energy rehabilitation operations under the Operational Programme for the Development of Environmental and Transport Infrastructure for the period 2007-2013, the sixth development priorities Sustainable energy use, the first priority orientations. With regard to this invitation to tender, I would like to ask: What could the local communities have declared or the purpose of the invitation to tender? How much funding has the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space allocated for this call? Who are the beneficiaries and what is the co-financing rate? What was the response of the congregations to the invitation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u376	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u377	Thank you, too, for that question. The purpose of the call is based on the very title Energy rehabilitation of buildings owned by local communities or alternative construction in case of imprudent investment in the renovation of existing buildings, it is said, investments in thermal insulation of facades, thermal insulation of attics, replacement of building furniture and other measures. Following this call, for example, projects are eligible for the rehabilitation of systems and the use or installation of modern technologies for heating, ventilation and cooling buildings and environmentally friendly decentralised energy supply systems focusing on cogeneration and use of renewable energy sources, as well as for the automatic monitoring of consumption enabling monitoring of project indicators. The main concern is measures in municipal buildings owned by municipalities. In most cases, measures have been reported in primary schools, kindergartens, health homes, including some administrative buildings, libraries, cultural homes and so on. The project will certainly contribute to some acceleration in the area of construction, especially at the micro level, in addition to increasing the energy efficiency of individual buildings, as the effects of this call will certainly be visible throughout the country. In this first framework, €52 million has been allocated to these measures, mainly European funds from the European Cohesion Fund, and the co-financing rate is 100 % of the eligible costs, and, of course, value added tax is not one of the eligible costs. As early as the first deadline of the application, there was a large response from the municipalities, I can say exceptional, 186 projects from 125 municipalities have been reported, totaling EUR 107 million, 600 000, eligible costs of EUR 91 million, 900 000. This is now followed by a review of these applications, possible additions, which should have taken place there by mid-December, when the beneficiaries will also be given decisions to which they will be followed by the signing of the contract in January next year, so that all these operations can be carried out smoothly from spring of next year. Of course, all this information about who was entitled to the resources that the projects have been successful, published on the Ministry's website, but I would like to point out that a number of measures in the field of energy rehabilitation of public-owned buildings have already been implemented in the field in recent years, which have also been implemented this year and will also be implemented in the coming year, as has been the case in the following years, including the next year for the energy rehabilitation of hospitals, €36 million, for energy rehabilitation of homes for the older 20 million and for the energy rehabilitation of buildings in the field of education, in particular secondary education, €16 million. During this period, we expect another tender in the area of higher education, to be published by the Turkish Ministry of Education, amounting to EUR 7 million. Otherwise, Slovenia is somehow following a commitment, which will also become a commitment after 1 January 2014, because it has been accepted at European Union level and by which countries will have to provide energy renovations every year for at least three percent of public or state-owned buildings. These measures, which have been implemented in the past and with those that will take place in the coming years, will only follow this objective, and we estimate that we will need about 50 to 60 million euros a year for these purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u378	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? No, okay. Let's move on, mag. Borut Ambrožič will ask the Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport Dr Žigi Turku.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u379	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, the other ministers present and colleagues and colleagues who have remained! The farm-farming institution, which has premises on Winarski Street 14 in Maribor, is threatened with eviction. This institution developed from 1984 the established agri-chemical testing station in Pristav. It plays an important role in the development of agriculture, not only in Styria, but throughout Slovenia. Recognized experts from this institution represent, if you like, the first front line with farmers and generally play an important role in the development of the Slovenian countryside. There is little for this institution, let alone companies that can boast of such a commendable tradition of action, which has reached 118 years since this year's calendar year. However, KGZ Maribor, as it operates under the short term, which has spaces in the previously mentioned Vinařski street 14 in Maribor, is threatened with eviction. This falls under the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia and in the building where it operates, employs around 71 people whose basic mission is education, training and transfer of the latest technological knowledge from agriculture and agricultural production into practice and thus indirectly achieve the promotion of development in agriculture. The unresolved spatial issue, which has been going on for years, even before the court, has therefore remained unresolved until today, as the request of the Maribor Agriculture and Agriculture Institute to enforce the EUR 800,000 invested in the facility has not been heard. Nevertheless, on their website you can read the mission below: "We want to produce healthy and safe food in the inhabited countryside. Our task is to provide professional education and advice to users in agricultural activities and to transfer state-of-the-art technological knowledge into agricultural practice." The following entry can also be found under the heading Values: "Knowledge, experience, knowledge of rural areas and adaptability, broad human resources representation, high professional skills, diligence and diligence allow us to successfully implement the measures of the agricultural policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and other public tasks. A well-equipped laboratory technique allows us to quickly service and provide professional information in the implementation of arrotechnic production and in the global agricultural research work." I therefore ask the competent minister: Has the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, which has somehow been able to manage this space since 2006, and 2007 has prepared a spatial solution for the Agricultural and Agriculture Institute in Maribor to also allow the smooth operation of the entire network of Agricultural and Agriculture Institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u380	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u381	Thank you very much for that question. The Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport is not responsible for the systematic provision of a network of agri-agricultural institutions and their spatial operating conditions, so explain the systemic spatial solution I, unfortunately, cannot provide here. The founder of the institution is the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment is the Ministry of Agriculture and Environment. On this issue, attempts to settle in court and previous proceedings have failed. In our opinion, due mainly to the unrealistic demands of the Maribor Agriculture and Economy Chamber, due to the filing of counter-claims and the tactics of delaying. This includes filing a complaint against the decision of the Court of First Instance. The Ministry will wait for the court's decision on the appeal of KGZ Maribor. On the basis of the legislation in force, it is, of course, possible to conclude a rental relationship for the rent determined by the expert. Our ministry estimates that there will be enough time for an acceptable solution. Otherwise, we need rooms in Vinarski 14 to solve the spatial problem in education or education, this is the Biotech School in Maribor, so we simply cannot give up these spaces.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u382	Here you go, supplement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u383	Thank you for your initial response, Mr. Secretary. I am pleased that you have given me a starting point, because in this additional, I would like to say, I would like to describe briefly how much time allows me, the current situation facing the secondary biotech school, the formerly the secondary agricultural school in Maribor, which currently houses as a tenant in premises owned by the Maribor diocese, and is kind of divisive between the three options that are still open at this moment. As far as I know, it is one and the least desirable to actually move to the current premises of the Maribor Agriculture and Agriculture Institute, where a substantial renovation would be necessary. Another option, the continuation of the rental relationship in the premises of the Maribor diocese, to the extent that I know, is relatively agreeable under the conditions that, of course, the Maribor diocese, as a good host, would properly service its facility. Thirdly, the new construction of a whole new facility for the needs of Maribor’s secondary biotech school, which is owned by the Maribor diocese, for which there is still no suitable spatial plan. Therefore, I am particularly pleased with this sentence, which you have said, that after the Court's decision you hope for an appropriate and acceptable solution for all parties to the proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u384	Thank you very much. Can I get you anything else, Mr. Secretary? Good. We continue with the next question. Mrs Tamara Vont will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology mags a question. Happy Zerjava.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u385	Thank you very much. I am pleased to ask this question in this intimate society. As you know, last week, the European Commission adopted Commissioner Viviane Reding's initiative to start discussing the introduction of women's quotas on corporate boards. Of course, that is why I expect, as far as this is concerned, a rather gruesome debate, to say that there will be very many arguments for, there will also be arguments against, including on the part of women, and it is also relatively clear why they will be such. Interestingly, in October, when I was in Brussels, Viviane Reding explained that she had already proposed to businesses in 2011 to offer seats to women on boards, but a year later this initiative, to say the same, did not come up with any results, the result was null. Research into financial houses, and I'm not talking about NGOs or civil society organisations or anything like that, but I'm talking about those financial houses that we're talking about, the ratings and the like, they did a whole bunch of research that showed a strong link between the company's performance and, on the other hand, between women's high-level rating in this company. As far as European companies are concerned, one information is interesting, namely that 86% of men and 13.5% of women in European business management boards are men and 13.5% are women, while only 2.5% are executive directors, although in fact 60% of all those who successfully complete studies in the essence of women are more than 60%, I am talking about the European average. And here we are on this quota system, which has some of the specifics proposed by Commissioner Reding, it is supposed to be 40% by 2020. It should be pointed out that this is a temporary measure to bring the sanctions of each country into line with its legislation, and so on, so that I do not waste too much time. I want to know: What is Slovenia's position on this issue now at this stage? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u386	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u387	Thank you very much. Slovenia does not yet have a position on this issue, but it is preparing it, otherwise, for this directive, which is under consideration, if I say so, the competent ministry of Comrade Visiak, and regardless of that, we will be involved in the Ministry of the Economy in shaping this position. If you ask me personally, I have nothing more to do with it, I am in favour of positive discrimination, as far as I'm concerned, because I don't know how to say women's quotas, weaker sex, thank you very much, and I'll tell you that I have bad experience with electoral legislation in Slovenia in this case, talking about some quotas, about some equal opportunities, and I'll tell you an example. At the last local elections in the Murska Sobota, we had the opportunity to run for women in one constituency and we were not allowed, it was not possible, because we had an established principle of equal opportunities and we had to find men and because there were too few, even some women, to withdraw from those ballots, so they were not allowed to run. And that is why I say that in this case, when we go looking for the same, in quotations, equal opportunities, better positive discrimination, so long as the sexes are not in some way in these professions that are difficult for women, let's say politics is improving here, or in administrations, if you want, until we reach a level playing field. I'm a personal supporter of the matter. It is very ambitious, saying that by 2018 we would have reached a 40% quota in the case of public companies and by 2020 in the case of listed companies. I agree with you that the debate here will be strong, sharp. The Norwegians have something similar since 2003, and they have seen the positive and negative side of this story. In Slovenia, I think the biggest problem is a social tradition, so to speak, when it is difficult for women to choose their own family's visas and so on, that those who build their careers, whether politically or not, in companies, and perhaps these circumstances need to be changed, in order for women to make decisions, to be able to make more decisions about these professions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u388	Complementary response, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u389	Because it's so pleasant to shoplift, and I would still take advantage of it, despite everything. In short, yes, as you said, this plan is ambitious, but here it must be said that this, as the Commissioner said, is essentially a qualification, not a gender. So if one company found that this woman was not the right one, then they would not insist on these quotas if they knew that she did not have qualifications for this job, that is to say. But, let's say, the quotas in politics have also brought, I have to say that years ago I was very opposed to quotas, but now that I know a little bit more about this content, I'm quite fond of this system, because somehow I don't see any other system that would have led, at least temporarily, to some means of balancing things. But like you said, the support system is a problem, a support system for women. So I think Minister Vizjak here will have a lot of work to do, and there will be another minister when he needs a security system and so on, it'll probably bring his own. So, you don't have a point of view yet, from what I've heard, you're personally inclined to do that, now I don't know if I can extend it to the others, if that's your personal opinion. Your personal yes. When, though, do you think that a position will be designed so that you can say that it is an official position? We can see that there are already very loud objections from Great Britain, and from some countries, on the other hand, we have very strong allies. Maybe it's just about this hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u390	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u391	I wouldn't have hoped to predict it at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u392	Thank you very much. On with the next question, Mr Jerko Čehovin will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u393	Thank you very much, Vice President. Even in this late-night session between the three ministers and how many of us are here, the five Members, pardon me, six, I would also ask a question. Mr Minister, at the time of the adoption and implementation of the Public Finance Balance Act, you and the Government have both argued that with your solutions you have reduced only those pensions that are not based on contributions paid. These claims were denied by yourself by the coalition proposal for a new law, where you excluded those pensioners who worked in companies established in the former republics of the common country from the category of expulsions until 1992. And with this solution, you've forgotten about the military people again. This is a group of pensioners for whom, as you said, contributions were paid in a joint fund with headquarters in Belgrade. The fact is, by 1 January 1973, military personnel serving in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, the then Socialist Republic of Slovenia, were included in the scheme of general pension and disability insurance. That's why I'm asking you: Why does the proportion of the pension for which contributions have been paid under the general pension scheme pay pensions to those persons by the State from the state budget and not from the so-called pension fund? I also ask you: Will you also correct the injustices, in addition to the other pensioners who have paid contributions in other republics, for those who have paid contributions in Slovenia? I'm asking you: Will you, in the framework of the proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance, which is currently in the parliamentary procedure, proceed to corrections where you will not separate or mislead the public with the claim that this so-called cleaning of the pension allowance is concerned? I hope this isn't about cleaning up pensioners, either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u394	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u395	I am happy to answer that question. The Act on the settlement of financial liabilities in the Republic of Slovenia from pension and disability insurance in Article 6 provides that the Republic of Slovenia shall fully reimburse the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance for the payment of pensions under the rules on pension and disability insurance of former military insurers. So it is not true that part of the pension would be paid by the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, as you suggest, but fully assumes these liabilities by the state budget, 100%. The purpose of the acquisition by the State budget is mainly to obtain the rights of these persons from the Special Fund for the Insurance of Military Insurers, which was established under the Law on the Pension and Disability Insurance of Military Servants and began to operate on 1 January 1973. It was specific military regulations of the SFRY, which cannot be compared with those of the general rules at the time governing pension and disability insurance. Dear Member, these people have retired under special, special and, as you are probably also aware, significantly more favourable conditions than other persons. To list only a few cases, the calculation of the pension base for those persons under military rules is that the retirement pension is deducted from the pension base, which is the sum and represents the salary and special allowance, the salary belonging to the relevant act or, except in the last month of December before retirement. This is said to be the best year at home, or the last year was considered the basis for a pension, but we know that today we have 24 of the best years on the table, as well. Believe me, in the promotion of military personnel, the pension base was measured on the basis of the last salary. Imagine what it would be like for all other citizens of the Republic of Slovenia or the then SRFJ to receive a pension in this way. Secondly, the special allowances were similarly included in this, and the calculation of the pension base was specific, not to mention the percentage for the old-age pension, which was then significantly more favourable than that of all other insurers. In short, Mr Member, military officials were given a pension under significantly more favourable conditions than other citizens, other employees and, of course, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia under the law cited also assumed all the obligations to these pensions. And when we then specified the amount of these pensions, in fact, these pensions of former military personnel are far away, far above average pensions in this country and are also above average.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u396	Thank you very much. Complementary response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u397	Mr Minister, we both know that this country has been founded on respect for human rights and here it does not go, I will say, so much for the issue of justice or injustice, but it is simply a matter of law. A disproportionate intervention in any acquired right, because this category of people has lost somewhere between 20% and 25% of the pension, exceeds, I will say, the general purpose of the ZUJF and excessive interference or, if I use a slightly different term, nationalises these pensions, for which we, by the way, have committed ourselves to constitutional law on the basis of the then constitutional charter at the time of the creation of the new state. I think, given that a new law is being prepared, that this famous 408, in this law, is still being considered. I know there are problems with transfers, but the fact is that about a billion 400, as much as we need per year of pension transfers, is also the part of pensions that are based on all paid contributions, so we are not just giving this part for these pensions, where, as you say, there is no basis. So that's all I'm gonna say in the end. I hope, given that we have supported the Retirement Act in the first reading, that there will be no part of this law so that we can consider whether or not we will support this law in the next steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u398	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u399	The honourable Member, in the case of this law on the balance of public finances and its infamous 143rd, has already been very much said. This 143rd Article, relating to Article 232 of the Pensions and Disability Insurance Act 1, deals with the entire set of beneficiaries which have been applied together in this Article, in fact, have nothing in common, are very different categories of persons, more or less entitled and, among other things, were recipients of state pensions. Many Members of your parliamentary group, by the way, also the Vice-President of Parliament sitting here behind me, voted with the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds to abolish these pensions a few years ago. And then we could also hear interventions in, I don't know, such and other acquired rights. I think that once in this country we will also have to understand that rights are not only imposed on each other and that sometimes, when a country is in a crisis, in an extremely insurmountable situation, it is possible to limit such a right. Look, we're not cutting these people's pensions, but we're lowering it in some proportion that goes above the average in this country, actually for the reason that I mentioned earlier, because these people have retired on nothing to do with it under special conditions. They had relatively different rights, better rights than other pensioners, and it is also likely that earlier than other Slovenian citizens, and especially those with half-average pensions, have contributed slightly to the resolution of this crisis, since, not least, expenditure in recent years has accumulated quite a bit due to these rights. Of course, it is not possible to think that, as a minister, when talking about the reduction of certain rights in times of crisis, on the contrary, but unfortunately in another way than to tighten the belt in these over-average pensions also with our expenditure and income, the honourable Member, we also receive certain reductions. This, I think, has to be arranged in such an enviable time, which does not mean that this is permanent and that we will not talk about these matters, as you have already mentioned, in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u400	Thank you very much. You will be given an immediate response to the question, in principle, the President does not answer the question, but because I have been challenged. Mr. Secretary, it wasn't like that. As far as I can remember, I abstained in this vote so that we wouldn't put everything in one basket. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u401	I will first make a procedural proposal so that the new practice in this House will not be in writing. Otherwise, I do not expect from you, Madam Vice-President, but that it has been limited, so, in accordance with Article 246 of the second paragraph, I am making a procedural proposal to hold a debate on this at the level of the Minister. On one point, Mr. Secretary, I cannot agree with you. With new injustices, we cannot correct old injustices or other matters. In short, once again I agree with the right one, and I think that none of us who have lost these rights in part is opposed to suffering, but I will speak again, in proportion, I will say, but not that some categories contribute 20%, even up to 25%, and the others do, 4, 5, 8, or whatever. Therefore, it seems to me that we should generally have established practice in this country so as not to discriminate. I therefore propose that a general hearing be carried out in response to the reply of Minister Visiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u402	In accordance with paragraph 246 of Article 246, in order to vote on the question of the Minister's response, we will vote on Wednesday in the context of the votes. We move on to the next question. Mag. Stanko Stepišnik will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology mag. Happy Zerjava. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u403	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear ministers, honourable Members of Parliament, Members of the Positive Slovenia, there are no others! The 2013 budget provides for €1.4 billion from the budget. This is a very large sum, in my opinion a very optimistic prediction that we will benefit from this. That's why I'm asking you: How much of the EU budget by area has Slovenia made use of in the financial perspective 2007-2013? Slovenia had, or still has, 4.1 billion EU funds available throughout the period 2007-2013. We've pumped some of them, most of them unused, and we're threatened if we don't draw it out, even though I know we can draw it out by 2015 if the European Commission gets a plan for these extremes. With the available resources, Slovenia, taking into account the development strategy of Slovenia and the reform programme for the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy in Slovenia, has been prioritising the developmental investment priorities of the state development programme. Special emphasis is placed on achieving the Lisbon objectives, namely to promote economic growth and job creation, for which Slovenia has advocated spending 60 to 65% of its expenditure. On the basis of the agreed and EU-coordinated national strategic reference framework, 2007-2013, which defines the general strategy of the Member State for achieving faster convergence, Slovenia has drawn up three operational programmes. After these three operational programmes, we use these funds. Above all, it is important that we prepare such a use plan next year so that at least 1.1 billion of these funds can be used fairly from 1.4 billion because 300 million euros are earmarked for agricultural policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u404	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u405	Thank you very much, even for that question. Drawing on European funds is good at the moment. The European Social Fund, including according to the European Commission, is drawn on average – 312 million or 41 percent. Slovenia is also one of the more successful members in drawing on the funds of this fund. We are also above the EU average of 27 in drawing on the European Regional Development Fund, where we have already drained 997 million euros or 51.6%. We are a little less successful in drawing on the Cohesion Fund's funds, where 317 million or 22% have been drained, and this is due to problems on major infrastructure projects that we have talked about a lot about. In view of the absorption of all three funds together, Slovenia is ranked 12th among the 27th and 4th among the new Member States. Otherwise, it was from period 1. 1. By October 2012, EUR 4.6 billion of projects signed or certified, representing 94% of the available resources. Of these, contracts were signed for EUR 3.4 billion or 71 %. Payments from the State budget for 2.2 billion or 46% and reimbursements from the Brussels Treasury for 1.7 billion and 42% of the available funds. To further accelerate and improve this and, of course, to be faster, we have taken many steps. Firstly, we have provided that gold reserve, the budget reserve, to ensure its own participation in this budget for 2012. We have provided additional spending rights for so-called overcommittees totalling EUR 452 million over the currently available funds, which, of course, has significantly increased the option of 100 % pumping at the end of the programming period. We followed the same logic as logic was pursued in the previous financial perspective, and the overcommitments actually allowed us to draw on the previous financial perspective everything that could be absorbed. Of course, we have provided sufficient resources, in particular our own participation in both budgets, both 2013 and 2014. In 2013, €1.1 billion of cohesion funds and €839 million in the 2014 budget are foreseen. The ministries were in charge, not only of mine, but of all ministries, to prepare by the end of this year all the necessary calls for this by the end of the year, either by the end of the year, or by the end of the year, or by the end of the year, or on 1 January, whatever the case, all the necessary calls for these funds, which are available plus overcommitments, which we have defined to allow as much time as possible to draw on funds. We at the Ministry will prepare them, as I said, 30 by the end of the year. Inside this is, of course, a defined programme, why individual funds will, of course, be allocated, from rural development to measures taken by the Ministry of Economy for foreign direct investment, for technological development and so on, in short, everything is within this. It's the same with all the other ministries. A proposal is being drawn up to implement the possibility of the immediate payment of undisputed parts of the applications submitted by the project notifiers. A very important detail, we get a request, one part is indisputable, we could pay it, but not because the administration finds a hundred and one reason that this is not possible. Why not pay for the undisputed work, that is, resolve the claim, and resolve it over time and, of course, speed up the pump significantly. Another issue, direct payment by operators, in short, past the municipalities from the state budget direct payment by operators to avoid this, I will say, the liquidity problems of Slovenian municipalities that have problems with this and must, for a period of time, hire bridging liquidity credits. Thank you very much. I've got something else.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u406	Thank you very much. Complementary response, please, mag. Stepan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u407	Indeed, there have been some problems in using these funds from Europe during this period. I think that Slovenia's net financial situation towards the EU is not very favourable because we used 500 million by the end of September, the plan is 888 million to draw, but we have already returned something over 270 million, something like that, to the European budget, that is more than 75 percent of the planned. However, experience has shown that in the use of these funds and in the financial situation in Slovenia today, when both municipalities and firms are in a difficult liquidity situation, they do not have financial resources, and Europe offers this. I just don't know what it's like with our regulations that certain projects are not being promoted. I think that in the future, if we want to make use of a billion 100 million in 2013, it will then be necessary, for the first time, to strengthen this to the Ministry – the Scandinavian practice is that there are at least two teams, one that prepares documentation and helps municipalities and businesses to do so correctly, and the other team then controls and monitors it – and in particular this advance part should be introduced into these public calls, because otherwise there will be no possibility because there is no guarantee or guarantee potential that municipalities and companies will receive funding for the entire project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u408	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u409	We also talked about advanced work, but it's not as simple as it looks. We also have problems now when in some cases it is found that someone is doing something and has to pay back funds and so on. In short, this model is not that simple and we play it, at first sight it doesn't look so good. I wanted to respond only when you were talking about the net situation of Slovenia. In October, this plus EUR 222 million was the latest data and, of course, this net situation is growing from month to month, but it is true that we are unfortunately at half of the financial perspective if we are looking at 2007-2013 in the middle when about half of the funds should be spent behind for about 500 million, up to 600 million that we have recovered from 2007 to this year. She's so far behind, I hope, I don't, we have to make it up to them, there's no excuse for anyone, not for me, not for my coworkers. Much attention is paid to this, the highest possible, not only in my ministry, but also by other ministers at all ministries. But there are problems. I'm not saying there's no problem. The problems are with projects in municipalities, with contractors, with the downsizing of performers, and one very interesting thing to say, the phenomenon appears, namely that the project ends for significantly less money, because construction prices and many others have fallen significantly and the project, which was planned for 100 units of money, ended with 80 or 70 units of money, the project is realized, it is spent for 30 units less money. In short, there are cases like this, but these are sweeter concerns than problems. In any case, under the line, the plan is ambitious, we know what we have to do, the first step of course is calls, without drawing calls, if you don't have a basis. Tenders should be issued by the end of the year and then pressured on all instances at national level, as well as stakeholders, who will draw this money to get it home as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u410	Thank you very much. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u411	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like a public hearing of this drawdown of European funds. This particular concern, I think, is a concern on all sides and that we really need to prepare ourselves, bring together all the strengths, experience and synergies in order to draw these funds more liquidly in 2013 because the amount is extremely high. Besides, if we don't pump it, we might lose it forever. Therefore, it would really be necessary to have a public hearing in order not to lose this money, because every million euro, placed on a table, gifted or whatever, is a shame to lose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u412	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Mag. Stanka Stepišnik to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology mag. Radovan Žerjava will decide on Wednesday, 21 November 2012, in the framework of the votes. We turn to the next question, Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology mags a question. Mr Radovan Žerjav and the Minister for Infrastructure and Space Mr Zvonk Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u413	Ladies and gentlemen, I would rather not ask you any questions, but I must ask you for one simple reason, because we are not missing any problems in this country. I'd say that's why it's easy if we could complicate things. So, even when we want to have all the documents when we adopt the State Spatial Plan, when we actually have everything, even the money provided, both state-owned and those we get from cohesion, we are talking about the sums of €15.7 million of the entire seabed deepening project when we sail into the port of Koper and the cohesion funds that we have 13.3 million euros, and we now have one problem that we cannot solve or can't solve. That's why I'm asking you: What are you going to do to cut through this Gordy knot that we experienced a few days ago by continuing part of the seabed deepening at sea in Luka Koper, which is actually dependent on the success or further operation of Luke Koper? I think that's one problem we didn't need. So, we are talking about the problem of the Constitutional Court decision that the Municipality of Koper should not interfere with the territory of the future municipality of Ankaran, which in fact does not have a legal and formal leadership, there is no one who can make a decision about the disposal of mud from the seabed. Even here thinking about taking this mud somewhere, putting it in the Atlantic. I mean, it's one absurd act that certainly encourages investment for a lot. I believe that you are in an awkward situation or situation, like all of us, but it is still necessary for the Slovenian public and those who are actually expecting, and especially Luke Koper and the management of Luke Koper to explain how we will solve this problem, because apparently they themselves will not mess up this. We also know that in the future congregation of Ankara, when the State Spatial Plan was adopted, they opposed this expansion or the arrangement of Luke Koper to such an extent. Perhaps now is the time to consider how to proceed and how to deal with two congregations and how to divide the port into two areas with which we may have quite a problem. So please, if you can explain: How will they approach the solution of this problem and if they already have any adopted guidelines?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u414	Here you go, Minister Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u415	Thank you for that question. Let me first explain that there are two projects in this area. This project, financed by European Union funds, deepening the waterway referred to by Member Gaspar Gaspar Misic in the estimated value of €15.8 million, is a project which is not threatened by this land decision. This is an area outside the concession area. The holder of this project shall be the Maritime Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, carried out on land owned by the Republic of Slovenia and not subject to this decision of the Constitutional Court of 2. Ten. 2012. The project, which is already being implemented and co-financed by EU funds of €13.3 million, is still running smoothly and will also be completed within the relevant timeframes. The project, however, plans to implement the deepening of the canal in pool 1 and pools within the concession area and this project, which has not yet begun, will not be co-financed by the European Union funds. This part of the project intervenes in the area or plots owned by the Municipality of Koper and in parcels owned by the Constitutional Court by decision No. OP-699/12-14 of 2. Ten. 2012, simplified, frozen and, pending the final decision of the Constitutional Court, prohibited their removal or burden. It is therefore a dispute that arose in this interim period between the Municipality of Koper and the Municipality of Ankaran, which will start its work after the forthcoming local elections in 2014. Despite the fact that there are some relationships that would be right to be resolved as soon as possible, I am sure that we will be able to find an appropriate solution together with the Municipality of Koper and the future Municipality of Ankara, in such a way that this second part of the project will not be compromised and that it will be possible to implement it in this timeline, as envisaged, by 2014.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u416	Thank you very much. Minister Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u417	In fact, there is little to add to this, except that the Ministry of Economic Development, in its role as managing authority in July, confirmed a project to deepen the waterway in the Kore port of Kore, worth €15.7 million, which means both European funds and Slovenia's share of funds. So that funds are available, here, ready, but administrative or local issues will have to be resolved as soon as possible, or these resources will have to be redistributed somewhere else.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u418	Here you go, Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u419	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for so much. I'm not going to say exactly a satisfactory explanation. Indeed, it is a number of projects carried out in the Luka Koper area, all with a view to bringing the capacity of Luke Koper to a solid level, given the competitiveness of the global or European market. The problem I see, Mr. Secretary-General, is these are the administrative obstacles. So calmly say that by 2014, we will wait, it is said, November 2014 or when local elections will be waiting until then and possible funds will be diverted or reassigned, because projects are waiting and I think we should go in another direction – looking for a solution so with the Local Community of Ankaran, because today it is the National Community of Ankara, because it has the leadership of the local community, because the municipality cannot be, if it does not have a municipal council, has no mayor, there is no administration responsible for issuing any permits. Therefore, it might be reasonable to see, despite the Constitutional Court’s decision, how far can the ministries or the Government go and, in fact, to try to reach agreement with both the Municipality of Koper and the Local Community of Ankara, in order for this project to take place smoothly. I cannot imagine that we will say something because a municipality will be set up, actually established and legally-formally set up to start a business or operation, so that we will now, at once, postpone the project for a few years. That's not acceptable. We have too many municipalities in Slovenia, and all these municipalities are doing too much gray hair anyway. That is why, Minister, I expect an answer, or support, or: What will you do to avoid waiting for the actual legal-formal establishment and operation of the municipality of Ankaran? Projects need to be continued and today is the time to do so, so I ask for concrete measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u420	Here you go, Minister Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u421	There was no further question, but I take this opportunity to repeat once again what I said about the first project, i.e. the deepening of the waterway. This project is running normally and will also be completed within appropriate frameworks and there are no problems in this regard. With regard to the second project, which has not yet started, I said that despite the Constitutional Court's decision, we will try to find an appropriate agreement with the Municipality of Koper as well as with the future Municipality of Ankaran, which will start operating after the next local elections, which is probably in 2014. In this sense, adequate bases will be provided for the other project to be implemented by 2014, because by then it must be implemented if we want to benefit from the effects of both projects. On this occasion, I would also say that this decision is certainly a problem, not an insurmountable one, but a problem that we must face and try to solve in the best possible way. It represents an opportunity to re-valve the project of the 3rd pier, including the appeal of the future municipality of Ankaran, which has submitted for repealing the VAT Regulation for the third pier. All of these are some of the circumstances that suggest that some agreement will have to be found in this area, including taking into account certain views that may have not been fully taken into account in the past, all with a view to ensuring some normal development of this area. And, of course, we do not intend to wait for these processes until 2014, but we want to complete them in the shortest possible period and allow these projects to continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u422	Minister Zerjav, have you answered what was necessary? Here you are, Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u423	Otherwise, it does not make sense, I understand it myself, but look, I will procedurally suggest that I make it easier for you to work, so that all of these goals and processes that are to continue until 2014, if we are to have a public debate in the National Assembly, to clarify this issue or to try to get to the bottom and to find all the solutions before 2014, when the municipality of Ankara will also actually have a legal and formal life, that perhaps even now, perhaps this month, any agreement will be reached, and if not elsewhere, here in the National Assembly, to perhaps also invite representatives of the National Community of Ankaran and the Municipality of Koper. I propose that a public debate be held in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that this be voted on. But I know you're not going to vote on this, but I suggest we do it anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u424	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Gaspar Gašpar Mišić to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Magi. Radovan Žerjava and Minister Zvonk Černač will decide on Wednesday, 21 November 2012, in the framework of the votes on his question. The next is Renata Brunskole, who would ask the Minister for Defence, Mr Aleš Hojs, but because of his absence, this question will be raised at the next regular meeting. We're moving on to a question. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will ask the Minister of Justice and Public Administration, Dr Senk Plitčanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u425	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, we are all aware of the importance of the work of local self-government, the importance of the work of the municipalities, which carries out its original and delegated tasks to ensure all good things for citizens and citizens. We also know that municipalities share the fate of the country if the country is in a bad state, then so does the municipalities, because they are in part financed from the state budget. We see that they are being reduced by appropriate spending, as was the case at the time of the 2013-2014 budget, with the head of the municipalities falling to €536. At the same time, the two representative associations agreed to reduce this, but at that time they had somehow conditioned that parallel preparation of the Law on the Balance of Communities’ Finances should be made in such a way as to compensate for this. I want to know: Has the Ministry approached the drafting of this law on the balance of the finances of the municipalities, and at what stage is it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u426	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u427	Thank you. The last of the Mohicans stayed here. The Ministry of Justice and Public Administration has joined the drafting of this law, as agreed. I estimate that it will be ready and also adopted by the Government this year, but is currently in the stage of coalition and inter-departmental coordination. It was agreed that savings would be made in the financing of the statutory tasks of the municipality, i.e. that the target savings in the financing of the statutory tasks of the municipality would be approximately EUR 100 million. Now this coordination is taking place, how to make this savings, in a similar way or in a similar way as we have prepared and adopted the Public Finance Balance Act in the spring of this year. However, I can say that the starting points of this law are the proposals of the municipalities, i.e. the proposals of both associations of municipalities and of individual municipalities, and we add some other proposals from individual departments to this proposal. Once again, the law is in coordination and I am counting on it to be ready within a few weeks for reception in the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u428	Complementary response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u429	Thank you for that answer, Mr. Secretary-General. I want to know: Have you thought about reorganizing or rationalizing local communities in our country in the design and preparation of this law? Today we have 211 congregations, we know that some municipalities already have major problems, not just liquidity problems by providing these tasks. It is likely that the financial situation will continue to deteriorate, and then it will be a question of whether some congregations will be able to carry out all their duties under the law. While we know that this part, which concerns investment and financing, is something new, many of the congregations have already run out of money. So there are quite a few problems here. I want to know: Is the reorganisation of local self-government being considered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u430	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u431	Thank you. We don't think about it under this law. It is necessary to know that this is an intervention law and that it needs to be prepared and adopted quickly. However, we are thinking about this in general, but I think that I will say more about this in response to the next question, which is directly related to the question that you have asked. So, under this law, we are based on the existing number of municipalities, the existing powers of the municipalities, and we are interfering with these powers in the way I said, so with the aim of saving around 100 million euros.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u432	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the last question of today. Mrs Saša Kos will ask the Minister of Justice and Public Administration, Dr Senk Plitcanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u433	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greeting, Mr. Secretary! Although I do have a similar question as my colleague did, it is a bit widespread. Maybe you'll think of something else when I ask you a few questions. Because, as you know, many, respected ministers in Europe are undergoing a process of reshaping local communities, with the aim of better addressing both local challenges and challenges of national importance, due to changes to the social, political and economic scene. In most cases, developments are being made to reduce the number or increase the size of local communities. The size of local communities can have a significant impact on their effectiveness or inefficiency, however, as well as on opportunities for the participation of citizens in local public life. The relationship between the size of municipalities, the effectiveness of providing local public services and the participation of citizens in local life is at the heart of many European countries' debates from the early 50s. In order to improve efficiency in the provision of local public services, the number of municipalities in many countries decreased by the mid-1970s. The countries addressed the problem of small municipalities in four ways: bringing together municipalities – particularly radically in Scandinavian countries, regionalising or establishing urban levels between small municipalities and the country, state subsidies and grants, and strengthening inter-ethnic cooperation. That's why I'm asking you, Your Honor Minister: Are today’s territorial frameworks of our local communities still in line with the needs of the population? In your opinion, what aspects should be taken into account in the setting up of new congregations? But the rest of you have already answered in part, and I ask you kindly if this has helped you to think. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u434	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u435	When it comes to the issue of the territorial and non-national organisation of local self-government in Slovenia, both in terms of the crisis in which we are, but not least, I must say that we are also preparing a strategy for the development of municipalities on the basis of the findings of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. We set a deadline for 2015, until then we should have this strategy, I am sure we will have it sooner. Even when it comes to the work programme of our ministry, let me say that this issue, namely the issue of local self-government and possible changes in this area, was raised in 2013, I have now set other priorities this year, such as reform of justice, the public sector and other matters. When it comes to the content, my view of local self-government and the more rational organization of the congregations, let me say that the starting point that I have set for myself is the existing territorial organization of the municipalities. Here I would like to remind everyone that when we talk about municipalities, that is, local communities, we are talking about local self-government, that is, self-government, that people have made up their minds as they are – it is self-government of local affairs. And if they have decided as they are, in a democratic way, then it is probably right to take this into account and that this is the result and that we are not thinking about abolishing or in some central form, from Ljubljana directed to an existing territorial organisation. This is my starting point, which does not mean that we would not be actively looking even now, although, as I said, a greater focus will be on this day in 2013, ways to ensure that municipalities, small and large and medium-sized, exercise their powers more effectively. I must say here that I do not fully agree with the findings of the Court of Auditors in this report, which I mentioned earlier, where the Court of Auditors finds that small municipalities are the most problematic and it follows that small municipalities cannot exercise their powers satisfactorily. I know a whole bunch of cases where small municipalities are very effective, both in investment, for example, in local infrastructure and in the local economy. I think that depends quite heavily on the way the congregation is run. Of course, I agree that, at systemic level, all the ways in which existing municipalities, i.e. municipalities in the existing number, in existing territorial frameworks, need to be encouraged as much as possible to connect in the exercise of their competences. I think that these methods, which have been known so far by law, and which have contributed, say, to the emergence of various common municipal administrations and similar forms, are insufficient. There are other ways to encourage the congregations to exercise, in particular, the most vital powers they have. For example, the competences related to space regulation, spatial planning, then local public services, environmental protection or municipal activities, and so on, those activities that are vital. I am confident that here we can find ways in which we can then achieve that the municipalities will connect, that the municipalities will remain within existing territorial frameworks, that we will not interfere with this, while at the same time encouraging them to be more effective, more comprehensive and, in particular, more integrated in the exercise of powers than we have seen so far or in the past. With this question, as you yourself have already said, the honourable Member, is also linked to the question of the local level, this is the province of Slovenia, the so-called second stages of local self-government. We will also consider this issue when we prepare this strategy. It is true, however, that it is not at the forefront of our priorities either, because when we were preparing the coalition treaty, we decided that it is better to focus on those things that are feasible. Experience in recent years has shown that the establishment, the formation of landscapes, is a very difficult task, which does not mean that we would have given up on it if we thought that we could actually organise the functioning of local self-government more rationally in this way. If there's anything more to be said, then I'll be in charge.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u436	Here you go, supplement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u437	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. Nevertheless, look, the fact is that local self-government is very expensive for us. We know that. And wasteful. What has recently been proved by various analyses carried out in the field of local communities. Since 1994, the number of municipalities has grown from 147, as the colleague has already mentioned, and at 211, many do not meet the legal criteria for setting up. This is also a perfectly clear matter. Although these have changed over the years, it has been easier to establish new congregations, but politics has often had to come to the rescue. As we know, the political lobby was so strong in the National Assembly that for a long time nothing could be done in this direction. This is no longer the case because it is the incompatibility of the function of the county and of course of the Member. If you follow the standard of at least 5,000 people, you will quickly find that there are 110 such municipalities. That's what you say, half the size of it. Last year it worked, that's what I said, 211 and it cost us a good 230 million euros. If the current number of municipalities were to reduce by 110 who do not meet the legal criterion on the number of people, these costs would be lower by 42 million euros. That's why I want to know: Why did you not also take this aspect into account when setting up government measures to stabilise public finances? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u438	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u439	I would have added that to what I had intended before, and you've asked me that part of it yourself. I am confident that the exercise of the jurisdiction of municipalities can be done more rationally, i.e. at less cost, including with less budgetary money, i.e. money from the State budget in the way I described earlier, by linking municipalities in the exercise of these powers, which I have illustrated, and others, for example, if I am even more specific when it comes to some of these activities that I have mentioned, i.e. the activities of the local public services, the protection of the environment, for example, the provision of drinking water, the cleaning of municipal waste water and so on, these activities are already in themselves such a way that they force or should force congregations, smart communities or their leaders to do so together. And that means cheaper. There are many other such powers and other tasks of the congregations that would make sense to carry them out together because this is cheaper. Not only is this more appropriate in terms of ensuring the quality of these services. This savings, which could have been achieved by combining the exercise of the jurisdiction of municipalities, would have already been achieved by the integration of municipalities, so I do not think that it is necessary to intervene in the municipality in such a way that small municipalities, those you say do not reach the criteria of 5,000 inhabitants, should be abolished. Once again, from the arguments I mentioned in the introduction — if the people of a municipality have decided to want a separate congregation and if this municipality now exists, I cannot imagine how they could have intervened in a democratically expressed will to me here, that is, you Members and Members or before the Government. I think it is necessary to build on the existing number of municipalities and to see how, once again, I repeat what I have already said several times, how to organise their activities more rationally and encourage them, unless such more stringent rules as they would have to be combined in the exercise of these powers. In this direction, this strategy I have been talking about and then proposals for amendments to the legislation governing the functioning of local self-government. However, when it comes to this last part of your question, honourable Member, I must say that I did not understand exactly what we did not take into account in the Public Finance Balance Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u440	You have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u441	I ask that a general hearing be carried out on the basis of an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-08.ana.u442	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Ambassador Saša Kos to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice and Public Administration, Dr Senko Plitčanič, to her question, the National Assembly will decide on Wednesday, 21 November 2012, in the framework of the votes. I thank the Prime Minister and ministers for the answers given. I hereby end this exact agenda which we will continue on Wednesday, 21 November 2012, when the National Assembly will decide on the proposed decisions in the framework of the votes. I am also adjourning the 8th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. I thank the eight Members and Members of Positive Slovenia, the Minister and the professional colleagues for their cooperation and perseverance – it is now 23.32. Good night. The session was suspended on the 19th. NOVEMBER 2012 AT 23.32 A.M.
