ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-19-SDZ6-Izredna-03.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 3rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened under Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, Eva Irgl, mag. Branko Grimes, Jacob the Presbyterian, mag. Dejan Židan [[is here, so the apology was cancelled]] , Borut Pahor, Dr. Laszlo Göncz and Zoran Jankovic. I also invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 3rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received a draft agenda yesterday, Wednesday 18 January, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We have not received any proposals for an extension of the agenda, so I suggest to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received with reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Please first check the functioning of the voting devices. We are moving to a vote on the agenda. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 3rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say, the proposal for a decision amending and supplementing the decision establishing and the tasks of the working bodies of the national assembly. It is the establishment of the working bodies needed to deal with those proposals of laws sent to us by the Government that is running business. We drafted a motion for a decree at the College of Presidents of the National Assembly. The proposer is the College. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-19-SDZ6-Izredna-03.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Taking into account the fact that the candidate for Prime Minister of the Government in the first round has not received sufficient support and, consequently, we do not have a formed coalition and opposition, it is not possible to take account of the relationship between Members of the ruling coalition and members of the opposition in the working bodies. In the Group of Social Democrats, we therefore support a decree extending the competence and composition of the Joint Committee. This will enable the National Assembly to respond to difficult international and domestic financial and economic conditions. The government has already tabled six laws before the National Assembly to establish more effective mechanisms for managing public finances. And the creation of a joint committee will also make it possible. Let me say that we also support the establishment of a constitutional commission in the parliamentary group, as a proposal for amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was also formally tabled on 5 January. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Constitutional Commission should also be set up within the prescribed time limit, and we will therefore support the establishment of this Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-19-SDZ6-Izredna-03.ana.u3	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-19-SDZ6-Izredna-03.ana.u4	Honorable President, colleagues, colleagues! The citizens' list will support the proposal for a decision as proposed. The Constitutional Commission, I don't think it's controversial for anyone. As for the Joint Committee, I do not repeat that this Joint Committee, which is of a temporary nature, will in fact be something that will force us to put those committees and commissions on the table as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-19-SDZ6-Izredna-03.ana.u5	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-19-SDZ6-Izredna-03.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, good-bye! Labour bodies in the National Assembly must be set up to monitor the situation in specific areas, to prepare or take decisions on individual issues and, of course, to address the laws and other acts dealt with by the National Assembly. Given that we still do not have a government, nor do we have designed resources that appear to change radically, it is not yet meaningful to establish working bodies, as this will have to be adapted to the new ministerial departments that we will finally get. To this end, a basic decree has already been adopted, which provided only for the temporary establishment of the functioning of key working bodies that enable the functioning of the National Assembly itself, pending the adoption of a consensus on the establishment and tasks of all working bodies. For this interim period, therefore, in our view, the Joint Committee is the most reasonable temporary solution to the creation of a complete government, in addition to the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Internal Policy, which will be a single labour force for all other departments. However, the solution to its competence is necessary if we are to implement an agreement to deal with the six draft financial laws tabled by the Government in the National Assembly. However, as regards the Constitutional Commission, we are obliged to establish it under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as a proposal for amending the Constitution has been tabled in the procedure. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-19-SDZ6-Izredna-03.ana.u7	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Franz Bogovic. [[He's not here.]] On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, he shall have the word mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-19-SDZ6-Izredna-03.ana.u8	Dear Members and Members, welcome! In a symbolic sense today's change of decree in some way shows that the process of forming our government is still running too slowly, but on the other hand, this amendment of the decree also shows that Slovenian policy is capable of agreeing on certain key issues. As we discussed at the College, in Novi Slovenija we stressed that we preferred the establishment of temporary right committees and not the extension of the powers of the Joint Committee, but the democratic will of the College was different. As far as the Constitutional Commission is concerned, I think that this point is clear and there is nothing to add. However, we are pleased that Slovenia will also go along the path of some other countries to limit our public consumption to the Constitution. In conclusion, I can only say that New Slovenia supports the amendments to this decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-19-SDZ6-Izredna-03.ana.u9	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Positive Slovenia, Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-19-SDZ6-Izredna-03.ana.u10	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia supports both the amendment of the decree and the establishment of working bodies and will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-19-SDZ6-Izredna-03.ana.u11	Thank you. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, Mr Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-19-SDZ6-Izredna-03.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. All we have to say is that, as far as the constitution of the government and of the Committees of the National Assembly are concerned, we are facing a great deal of delay. Many premature statements were made by both the President of the Republic and the candidate for the term of office, and this has put a lot of emphasis on this. That is why we do not have a coalition or opposition, but we are still establishing a working body. I believe that we could do more in the National Assembly in order to establish those working bodies that will in any case be necessary, and after things have been better arranged when the coalition and opposition were formed, these things would also somehow be completed. In a few days we will vote on the mandate holder, I think there will be a proposal or another. In a few days or a few days, we will also vote on the government and I am very interested in how we will make the hearings happen if we have one permanent committee. Whether two thirds of government ministers will hold hearings on this Standing Committee or the Joint Committee. I don't think there's any need for us to form a "small national assembly" at this point, with a number of votes to decide on all matters. We do not have deadlines, as I said, and we will not have, within the prescribed time limit, any permanent committees of the National Assembly provided for in the Rules of Procedure or other matters. It must be said that things are blocked where they are not needed, but where there is something to be done, on the other hand, things are being pushed forward, even proposed at emergency meetings, where things are completely untransparent and unregulated. It would be good for the National Assembly and those who have been chosen to get things right and to arrange for us in the way that the rules we have written are dictated. What we do is abuse the rules of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-19-SDZ6-Izredna-03.ana.u13	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are starting a debate between Members and Members. For the debate, I invite Mr Franco Jurša. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Braniselle? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Jože Tanko? [[He's quitting.]] Mag. Katarina Hotchevar? [[Not at all.]] I'm closing the debate. No amendments have been tabled to the motion for a decree, so we can move on to a decision. I shall put to the vote the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the Decree establishing and completing the tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the agenda, this is a proposal for a decision on the appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission. In accordance with the fifth indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided, at its 2nd meeting, on 18 January 2012, that the Chair of the Constitutional Commission shall belong to the Group of the National Gazette and the Vice-Presidents shall act as Vice-Presidents or Vice-Presidents of the Group of the Positive Slovenia and the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The Head of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code has informed me that he is proposing my littleness as President of the Commission. Ms Maša Kociper is proposed by the Head of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia as Vice-President. However, the head of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group proposes Dr Vinko Gorenak as Vice-President. You have received a proposal for a decision appointing the President, the Vice-President and the Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission. Would you like a word with the representatives of the parliamentary groups? Please apply for the debate, if you wish, on behalf of the groups of Members. There are no reports. Then I ask you, do you want Members and Members to report to the debate? Please sign up if you'd like to discuss it. Mr. Ivan Vogrin, please. [[No, it's a mistake.]] There is no wish to debate, so we can move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing a President, a Vice-President and a Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the third extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
