ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Alenka Pavlič, Jakob Presečnik, Matevž Frangež, Matjaž Zanoškar and Borut Pahor. I invited the President of the Government, the Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the Council of State to the 6th and 7th agendas, the President of the Council of Justice of Dr Mir Cerar to the 16th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 6 April 2012, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of individual items from the agenda, but we must first decide on the request for a decision of the National Assembly on the decisions of the College before we go to the hearing and decision on the proposals for an extension of the agenda. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 13th meeting on 13 April 2012 that the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Income and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons should be considered on an urgent basis. On the basis of the 10th paragraph of Article 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the group of 33 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Sam Bevk, requested the National Assembly to decide on those decisions by the College. Therefore, on the basis of the third paragraph of Article 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are moving to consider the request that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of Presidents of the National Assembly to consider a proposal for a law amending the Law on Income and amending the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons by means of an urgent procedure. I give the text first to the applicant's representative of the request for a presentation of the position. Mr. Janko Weber, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, President, and a nice greeting to everyone. As already presented by the President in the introduction, it is a request for re-decision in the consideration of the law on income and the law on the income of legal persons. For both of them have a drastic impact on public finances. Under the Law on the Income of Legal Persons, income in the budget will be reduced by 170 million and, of course, revenue will be reduced by 67 million due to the proposed Income Act. This is a very large intervention in the budget and in the fact that we are facing a proposal from the Government that says that spending should be reduced by a budget balance of €800 million is a very serious problem. Therefore, the Group of Members proposes that we decide again on the very course of dealing with these laws. If we do not vote today to deal with these laws on an urgent basis, it will be possible to deal with it on a regular basis, which means that both laws can be dealt with as part of a rebalancing which is also already submitted to the National Assembly for consideration. The rebalance is that act when we talk about how we will ensure the best revenue side and how we will agree on how much we can reduce public spending. Therefore, the time to discuss these two laws is in the context of the 2012 rebalancing and, last but not least, it follows from the Government's interpretation of both laws. The government itself is talking about how these two laws also relate to the consideration of the 2012 balance sheet. We therefore propose that we decide again on the procedure of consideration and that we do not vote on the urgent procedure and thus allow a peaceful and sober debate on these two laws in the context of the regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u3	Thank you to the representative of the proposaler for presentation of the position. There is no discussion and explanation of this procedural requirement, so we are moving on to a decision. Please check with your colleagues and colleagues the functioning of the voting apparatus. I propose to the National Assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act shall be considered in accordance with the urgency procedure. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 31. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the decision has been taken and the National Assembly will therefore consider that proposal in accordance with the urgency procedure. I propose to the National Assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons shall be dealt with on an urgent basis. We're voting. There's no explanation for the voice, Mr. Weber. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 22. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the decision has been taken and the National Assembly will therefore consider that proposal in accordance with the urgency procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of proposals for an extension of the agenda. For consideration by the National Assembly, the Government has submitted a proposal for a law amending the Law on additional intervention measures for 2012, a necessary procedure, and the two laws on which we have just decided on the urgency procedure, i.e. a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Income, an urgent procedure, and a proposal for a law amending the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, an urgent procedure. By letter of 13 April 2012, the Government proposed to extend the agenda of the 2nd meeting of the Assembly by considering those proposals. The proposal for enlargement was adopted on 13 April 2012. I propose that we discuss the proposals for enlargement together and that we vote separately on each proposal. He wants to speak to the government's representative as a billmaker? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Please apply for a discussion or a presentation of your views. Mr Jože Tanko, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, dear colleagues! In our parliamentary group, we will vote for these three laws to be included in this meeting of the National Assembly. We estimate that the measures taken by these three laws are necessary, because many solutions are mainly additional resources to facilitate research and development, as an improvement is being made in facilitating and improving investment facilitation. This is a good basis for opening new jobs. Development brings new jobs and jobs, improved or new, is actually the best anti-crisis measure, better, much better than increasing transfers that are addressing any social difficulties in this area. We therefore assess that these laws must also be addressed at this meeting and we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u5	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Positive Slovenia, Mr Aloji Potočnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we object to the fact that these draft laws are being dealt with following an urgent procedure at this meeting of the National Assembly. Both the explanation of government measures and the fact that these acts were dealt with together with the State budget's proposal for a rebalancing, it is clear that their treatment before the rebalancing of the National Assembly is not meaningful. It is also based on the transitional provisions of these laws, which provide for the period of entry into force on 1 June or the payment of the regression, which shall be binding on the date following the entry into force of the rebalancing of the national budget. 14 extra days can't hurt anyone, deprive them or reward them. So we propose a rebalancing debate. The government and the ruling coalition would also be in breach of the agreement of the Economic and Social Council. As we know, trade unions have been promised that government measures can be coordinated throughout the process of the adopted balance. This has been highlighted several times. The latter will no longer be possible for those proposals which are not irrelevant after the adoption of the laws at this meeting. The government has also promised to prepare a set of measures to ensure additional inflows into the budget, following calls from trade unions in the negotiations for the government to prepare measures also on the revenue side of the budget. It even foresees that some could be introduced already by the Public Finance Balance Act. Let me remind you, the Income Act will be discussed three times in one month in the National Assembly. There can be nothing but groundless and unconstant proposals in such circumstances that cannot be and cannot receive our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u7	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. The extension of the agenda by these two points, i.e. the Income Act and the Law on corporate income tax, will not be supported. If we just look at the progress of this meeting, there are enough arguments to be able to talk about the poor organisation of the National Assembly if this extension is accepted. It is envisaged that, following the completion of the questions sent today, the Committee on Finance will meet and begin its consideration of these two laws. We can imagine that, given the number of issues reported, this meeting will take place for a long time and will be discussed late at night on the working body. Tomorrow morning, the 1st item of the agenda or the beginning of the meeting is practically already connected with these two laws, and at 9 a.m. the session begins. Of course, a report should also be drawn up in the meantime and submitted to the National Assembly. We feel that this attitude toward the work of the National Assembly is inappropriate. Is the National Assembly really just a service to the government? If the Government wishes us to consider this at this meeting of the National Assembly, fine, this is its legitimate proposal. But in the manner proposed, I think this has a profound impact on the organization of the National Assembly. Why should this agenda item not be considered on Thursday or Friday, so that it would be possible for working bodies to carry out a good-quality debate on two important laws which significantly affect the 2012 budget or the 2012 budget rebalancing, which is, last but not least, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration? At the same time, these two laws also constitute an intervention in social dialogue and we can talk about the Government's inappropriate attitude towards social dialogue. However, if we widen the agenda with these points, I think we can also talk about the inappropriate attitude of the National Assembly towards social dialogue. In my opinion, the National Assembly should not take such responsibility, but not one that we can understand in a negative sense in relation to social dialogue, which is essential for the agreement and adoption of extremely important solutions or decisions that will stabilise public finances in Slovenia. Of course, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will not support an extension of the agenda, and we hope that most will also follow these findings in the other groups of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u9	Thank you. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We will decide on three proposals for extending the agenda. We first decide on the proposal to extend the agenda by considering the proposal for a law amending the Law on additional intervention measures for 2012, the urgent procedure. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 32. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 32.]] I note that the proposal for an extension of the agenda has been adopted. The National Assembly will consider the draft law as item 2a of the agenda tomorrow, 17 April 2012. We are deciding on a proposal to extend the agenda by considering the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act, an urgent procedure. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 32. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 32.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The National Assembly will consider that proposal to be a 2b item on the agenda tomorrow. We are also deciding on a proposal to extend the agenda by means of a proposal for a law amending the Law on corporate tax, a necessary procedure. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 32. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 32.]] I note that the proposal for an extension of the agenda has been adopted. The National Assembly will also consider this law tomorrow as the 2nd item of the agenda. We will also decide on a full agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference and by means of an extension vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 31. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it that the agenda for the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to 16. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the conclusion on the termination of the Member's term of office under Article 9 of the Law on Members. The municipality of Ljubljana forwarded a decision to the National Assembly on 11 April 2012, the Statement of Mr Zoran Jankovic of 11 April 2012 and the Confirmation of the City Election Commission on the election of the Mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana. The notice of the Municipality of Ljubljana was addressed by the Mandate-Volution Commission. On the basis of the third indent of Article 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the Commission shall propose to the Assembly, acting on the basis of Article 9, paragraph 1, and Article 9, paragraph 2, of the Law on Members: On 11 April 2012, on the basis of a notice from the Municipality of Ljubljana, the National Assembly notes that Member Zoran Jankovič has acted as the mayor who is incompatible with the function of the Member, and therefore, in accordance with the fifth indent of the first paragraph and the second paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members, the term of office of the Member shall expire on 16 April 2012. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission of that decision and ask it to inform the National Assembly which candidate or candidate will become a Member or Member for the remainder of the term of office, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, instead of Mr Jankovic, who has terminated his term of office. On the basis of the DVK's notification, the Council of Ministers will draw up a report and propose to the National Assembly approval of the mandate of a new Member or a new Member. I thank my former fellow Member, Mr Jankovic, for his work and wish him a successful job as mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana. I hereby terminate this agenda item, which we will continue on Thursday, 19 April 2012. I am also adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. on the 1st item of the agenda, with questions from Members and Members. I'll see you soon.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u10	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our adjourned session. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. I welcome the Prime Minister, Minister, Secretary-General of the Government. With regard to this item on the agenda, I have received written applications for the twenty-four questions put forward within the deadline of business. The order for asking questions shall be set in accordance with Article 244(2) and Article 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and in accordance with the agreement with the heads of the groups of Members. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government and the Member of the ruling coalition's question. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question, the President of the Government, the Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, they all have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the reply. He can't ask any further questions, but he can only require a supplement to the answer, and I'd like to ask you to pay attention to that. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who has asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government, as decided by the State Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Secretary-General must reply in writing within thirty days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. You have also received a review of the questions sent, which were not answered within the deadline of business. There are two such questions. Mr. Weber, you have a procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u11	Thank you, President, for your word. I have a procedural proposal, which I would like to make especially in the presence of the President of the Government, because the fact is that it is announced on Wednesday by the Government on the ground, despite the fact that we have already put the meeting of the National Assembly in the National Assembly programme on 7 February. So for more than two months this meeting was planned, and the government has clearly estimated that it does not want to actively cooperate with ministers at this meeting and is planning a government meeting on the ground. Since this is a regular meeting, it seems extremely important to me, and this is also my procedural proposal to ensure on Wednesday the presence of the Minister of Mag on the amendments and additions to the Law on Economics and Financial Affairs and on Digital Broadcasting. Radovana Žerjava, Dr. Shadow Plitčanič and Dr. Žiga Turka. These are very important points, and we expect ministers to be present at the National Assembly to address these agenda items. I reiterate that this is the so-called first regular meeting from which the government has been appointed, and we believe that this would also give the Government an appropriate attitude towards the National Assembly. I would understand if it were a call for an extraordinary meeting requested by Members and would somehow go into the government's plan. In this case, however, it is a regular meeting which was planned and also notified to the Government in due time. We believe that, even though the forecast medium of the public sector statement cannot be the reason for the possible absence of ministers at this meeting, or even the possible escape of the Government from Ljubljana, when the sentence in Ljubljana takes place. I therefore propose that you try to ensure the presence of ministers in the middle of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. Weber. This proposal was primarily for the ears of the government. The government has taken note of this, I believe. We can move on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four parliamentary questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. The first question will be posed by the mag. Alenka Bratusek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u13	Nice greetings to everyone on my behalf, especially the President and the entire government! Dear Prime Minister Janez Janša, why do you think today must be so radically affected by a number of social rights of citizens and citizens when there are other ways to achieve the same goal? I think it is clear to all of us in this Chamber that saving in our public finances is essential. It is also probably clear to all of us that we are missing out on some measures. In particular, these are structural measures that would have a long-term and lasting effect. For these measures, you are obviously not necessary yet, since you have been very supportive of the referendum less than a year ago, where three have fallen, we can say, crucial reforms. Even then, I found this difficult to understand, today, when I listen to what radical measures you're proposing to our people, I understand even more difficult. It is true that the direct impact on the pension allowance due to pension reform in the first and second years is relatively small and the indirect impact on the price of money is enormous, between 200 and 300 million. A little? I think it's huge. 300 million is three times more than a grant lady, as much as a maternity lady and as much as a maternity lady. And you won't believe it, more than ten times as much as a lady for a free kindergarten. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! In Positive Slovenia, we will be very pleased if after almost two months you manage to send us projections of public financial aggregates and the impact of your proposed austerity measures on the economy. How can you, after all that has been said last year, after the collapse of all reforms and the failure to support measures, until you have taken control of the governments in your hands, believe us, and how should people believe you? How can they believe that such radical measures as you propose are necessary? You're saying they're not radical. My mother's name and last name was e-mailed to me, not anonymously, four-year-old mom, five-year-old mom, three-year-old twins and one-year-old twins. The husband is a public servant, your proposed measures would take thousands of euros a month for this family. Two civilian initiatives tell you the same thing. Children are your main target in saving, start with maternity benefits and end with a radical reduction in higher education funds. But of course, everything else comes in between. At the so-called material costs, you have managed to save an entire EUR 60 million, even increasing the amount of money in office materials by EUR 6 and a half million, requiring our families to give up up up to EUR 1000 a month.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u14	Mr Janša, Prime Minister of the Government, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u15	Thank you for asking first. If we compare the measures proposed by the government that have not yet been taken and the opposition is also invited to form them, with what other countries in the European Union have done, which are somewhere in a similar stage of development and similar situation, then these measures are not radical. However, if you compare these measures with what has been done so far, then you can also use that word. But all these measures stem from the simple fact that Slovenia has for this year, which is not at the beginning, but is almost a third past the adopted budget, which was designed and adopted two years ago and more. And this budget, not only is completely unrealistic, is also completely inoperable. Every day, without aligning public spending with reality, at the expense of future generations, is said to be a child named at least ten more times in your question. They're the ones who're gonna have to pay it back. And now tell me where justice is. Secondly, the measures are balanced. They go into different areas just because they don't have to be radical. But we'd be radical if we went to just one sector. Thirdly, these measures are proposed on the basis of comparisons of what others have done in similar situations. Compare the different social transfers we have in Slovenia, compare standards in education, compare length of maternity leave, compare subsidies for kindergartens and so on with countries that are at the same development level or even richer than us, and you will see that none of what we propose is radical. If it were so easy to find solutions without any social transfer or any grant being reduced, that would probably have happened by now. After all, solutions have also been sought in recent months and in the last three years, but apparently there have been no solutions. There is no short-term impact on the budget in the structural reforms to be made. And the mistake in the past was that we were doing things on the wrong end. So we've tried to do some things that need to be done, but they're only going to have effects in a few years, but we haven't done what we should do right now. When the house burns, it is necessary to shut down and then correct the foundations, not first to correct the foundations. That's why we're in this position today when things went south. Nor does it claim that the main savings planned here are in the social field. Here, too, if these measures are to be adopted, the rights that will be in force in Slovenia are not only comparable to those in other countries at the same level of development, but are, or will be, significantly higher. And last but not least, we do not do this and we do not propose and you will not accept or reject it, because we would like to see wages not grow in the coming years so that we do not have enough money for solidarity and assistance to those who need it, but on the contrary. These measures are proposed to preserve Slovenia as a social state, but in this way we will also be able to finance these rights. We haven't been in for the last three years. They were financed from debt. And now we have to pay them off. Even if this rebalancing is adopted, there will still be more than a billion Euros of debt and a budget deficit. Out of this billion euros will go 700 million euros for interest, for the money that was spent in previous years because we did not go to Parliament with these measures. If we miss this year, it'll only get worse next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u16	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, would you like to complete the answer? Please, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u17	Completing the question. Mr President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u18	I'm sorry, you can't complete the question, you can request a supplement to the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u19	Complementary response. Mr President, all these arguments that have been cited could somehow be understood if you did not have people sitting in your government who said last year: "We do not agree that much of this crisis or of these consequences of the crisis on your shoulders would be borne by those who are the most socially vulnerable. I cannot agree to freeze pensions, I cannot agree to freeze social transfers, to go to kindergartens, in short, to those areas that are very socially sensitive." The words of Mr. Žerjev. "If the policy of this country is that it is important to pursue greater fertility and thus the growth of the nation, then appropriate measures must also be followed in all the segments that provide this basis. Clearly, things have somehow begun in recent years with this supplement for large families, with this kindergarten benefit, with many other measures that have made it easier for people to decide to have children. If this policy stops being implemented, we will be back in a situation that is not good for us in the long term." The words of Mr. Black. And they both spoke at the time of the adoption of intervention laws last year and before last year. The measures are now essential, much more radical than they were proposed at the time, and you then rejected them with big words about the social sense and the importance of family policy. Dear Prime Minister, why do you think people would believe your words about the need for such radical measures, what needs to change in the heads of politicians so that they can change their views radically in less than a year?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u20	Mr Janez Janša, Prime Minister of the Government, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u21	As far as the weakest in this company is concerned, all measures that could also affect them are censored, which means that they will not apply to those whose salaries do not reach 64 % of the average wage. For example, when it comes to children’s supplements, these decrease by 10% only in the 5th and 6th classes, the other classes are left untouched. And this price of 64% of the average wage is preserved through a whole series of these measures. That's the first one. Second. A lot of what we're doing this year wouldn't be necessary or these percentages of restrictions would be significantly lower if we did this one year, two years or three years ago, or even four, five or six or ten years ago. And we didn't. And if we don't do it this year, next year someone else will be standing here for this table where I stand today, and will explain to you the much harder measures you have to take, otherwise they will be even harder a year later. In the last three years of the crisis, the Slovenian economy has lost 60,000 jobs. 60 000 people work fewer, non-Slovenian citizens who worked on the basis of work permits in 2008. 120 thousand people today work in Slovenia less than three years ago. At the same time, the public sector has increased by 9,000. If this had not happened in the last three years, the problems we are talking about today would have been reduced by a third. However, the whole range of rights that exist in the public sector and are not comparable to what is in the economy has been preserved. Only the average length of leave in the public sector is 10 days longer than the average length of leave in the economy. I think it is very unfair to ask that only one segment of this society will bear the burden of the crisis, but the other does not. We would like it not to be necessary to propose this, we would like to be able to propose an increase in wages, children's allowances and other transfers, perhaps some more expensive supplements, as this has sometimes been possible, but this is simply not possible to finance. And you have to understand that.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u22	Mag. Alenka Bratushek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u23	Procedurally. Since I cannot be satisfied with the response of the President of the Government, with most of what he has said, I can even agree, but the question is whether this government has taken the right path. It was already basically my question whether there is no equal solution to any other path. Therefore, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly, at its next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, hold a debate on why the Government does not take a different path – a path that will also take us below 3% of the deficit in two years, a path where the measures on both sides of the budget would be cost-effective and profitable – a path that would lead Slovenia up and down.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u24	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday in the framework of the vote. The following question will be posed to the Prime Minister of the Government by the mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u25	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, ministers, President of the Government! A way out of the crisis is a common goal. The balance of public finances is essential, as well as saving, but also development and growth, but not at the cost of destroying the social state. The government did not present a comprehensive concept of the exit strategy. However, it follows from the documents submitted and already adopted that, under the cover of short-term austerity measures, there are systemic measures that will lead to changes in social relations and the redistribution of social wealth. The social state is the main instrument for ensuring the common needs of the population, an instrument of social solidarity and cohesion. Therefore, the public sector is not a monopolist who would necessarily need competition in order to improve efficiency in transferring the functions of the social state to the private sector and to the market. However, the measures proposed by the Government are aimed at weakening the public sector, resulting in reduced accessibility, quality and scope of public services. Increasing social disparities, pushing an increasing part of the population, especially families at the threshold or even below the poverty threshold, cutting employment opportunities especially for young educated women cannot be a motivation for developing and finding a way out of the crisis. The outcome is in a strong and effective social state that will not provide public education, health care, social protection and other public services only to the weakest. We do not advocate a poor country for the poor, while the wealthy will be able to afford elite private education, health care and so on, co-financed by public funds. The austerity measures proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia without serious intention to achieve a broader social consensus will go a long way towards everyone's life. Compared to planned interventions in the public sector, the disproportionate and excessive changes proposed in education, science and culture are particularly disproportionate, as they will reduce access to quality public education and deny the development of the country in the long term. That's why I'm asking you: How will constitutional and legal provisions be implemented and the objectives set out in international documents that provide equal conditions for the individual to develop fully his or her abilities and innovations and enable professionals in education and science to have professional autonomy and an opportunity for professional growth? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u26	Thank you. The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u27	Thank you for asking. We can find the answer in comparison. Years ago, when in Slovenia there were norms in education and education similar to those proposed by these amendments, more pupils and students and children in primary schools sat in Slovenian schools, fewer teachers, and their results were the same or better in many areas as they are today. Then the number of children fell due to the decline in fertility, and we increased employment and reduced standards. This was fine and it would be ideal if everyone like in ancient Greece, when possible for some, had his own teacher, and would be one teacher per one who does the school. This would be ideal, but society cannot finance it. This is not about the transfer of rights from the public sector to the private sector, the entire private education in Slovenia does not reach 1% of the entire school and these comparisons are also impossible. Even after adapting these standards, which you are asking about, or after this rationalisation or savings, standards in Slovenia will be above average according to the average in developed countries or OECD Member States. I can also give you specific numbers. The average in the OECD is more children in the group and a smaller number of teachers as well as a higher number of teacher hours. I don't know if you know, but in Slovenia, a lecturer can be regularly employed at the university, but he has 4 to 8 hours of work per week. I do not think there is a country in Europe where the situation would be similar. Of course, this is okay if it is possible to pay and finance, but in this situation this is not possible in Slovenia and there will be urgent adjustments, at least for a certain period of time. As far as the social state is concerned, in relation to education. It is in Slovenia and will continue to be large in the future, but it will be as much as it will finance the economy, because only a healthy economy, only economic growth can be the basis of prosperity and also of the social state. If you can't pay for it, and you want to have it, you have to do it. We've been doing this in recent years, now we're in front of a wall. Not only is further indebtedness a pleasure if we do not take these measures, we can rightly fear that there will be no one else who will be willing to lend us the money at all. This happened to Latvia three years ago. They were not below the limit of banning or punishing debt in the European Union, they were below us, somewhere over 30%, but they could not borrow money because no one had lent it to them because no one believed that they would be able to repay it in the way they were. That should be taken into account. Slovenia is at some very important turning point. I think it is also right that we should actually talk about some serious problem in our education system, which we have not only addressed, although you have been talking about a systemic approach, and this is that even at this point a large part of the generation that is being studied in Slovenian universities cannot be counted on in the years to come for employment because it is registered, but the government approves, over-inclusion and studies in orientations and colleges, for which it will not work in Slovenia and not in the European Union. That's what they've been fooling their entire generation with. School capacities were being built, homes were being funded by humanities colleges, and today it is clear that we are educating people for unemployment. And here we're going to need a systemic change.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u28	I give the word "magic." Majdi Purchasing to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. However, when reporting data from the OECD study, it is necessary to be precise. There is Slovenia after the percentage of students or pupils per teacher, as regards full employment, somewhere in the middle. Indeed, the number of pupils in the first grade is lower, this is up to the sixth grade, but the fact is also that the OECD study recommended that the quality of education in Slovenia is high and that the price for this high quality is also high. It is important to come out when they offer me information about Korea and about the number of students in Korea and Slovenia, what is the settlement in Slovenia and what is it like in Korea. This is a statistical segmentary, excuse me, because 50% of municipalities and schools are from a demographically endangered area. We need to reach a national consensus on whether we agree that schools are closing down. And I point out that, in addition to all the other measures that will concern the most pressing issue in the public, the issue of wages is, but it is a much worse change that will follow. It is simply that accessibility to public education will be reduced. While funding for tertiary education and science is shrinking for 110 million, the establishment of new universities is still at stake. In the mandate of your first government, we set up some college, which is also a social college, not exactly the one you're talking about. And as far as this information is concerned, Slovenia is no better on average, even with an average burden on the teacher if we are taking all the segments.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u30	I give the floor to the President of the Government to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u31	Thank you. Although there was no further question, I can only say that we can quote the OECD scale or anyone else and argue about these numbers. It is not the main problem in these comparisons, the main problem is that we can spend as much money on education as we have. We'd all be very happy if we could do it anymore, but we don't have it. And the fact that one or two children will be more in the group or in the classroom and that the weekly burden of a teacher will be one or two hours more, these are not drastic measures. This is certainly an additional effort, but these are not drastic measures. In fact, drastic measures would be if we were to abolish schools and do what they did in some Eastern European countries as part of these austerity measures. As for the inadequate structure, this applies both to the public sector and to the private sector, you are absolutely right, because the private sector is one percent of Slovenian education, and this does not say much in the structure itself. However, this balance is everywhere and both works will have to adapt to reality in the future and it will no longer be possible to register two to three times more journalists, sociologists, political scientists, economists and lawyers than the Slovenian economy needs, so that most of these profiles cannot obtain employment outside Slovenia, unlike technical and natural professions. We are deceiving, once again, the entire generation and also this year's government has given its consent at the beginning of the year to the tendering places of writing, which are completely in line with real needs.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u32	Procedural proposal. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u33	Thank you. I propose that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246, the National Assembly shall hold a debate on President Ivan Janš's reply to the question raised. Only in this case would we have enough room to discuss things that are already stuck with the proposed balance and the urgent procedures of tomorrow to some extent. This is a matter of much broader questions than could now be pointed out. True, it is not just a comparison of strict or merely torn statistics, it is simply that people will only eventually find that the intervention in saving with public servants, especially in education, in the entire educational chain is something that will hit them in the core, if not in their children, and then in their grandchildren. It is simple to face the fact that the government intends to round up school environments and complete departments. To date, under school law, it is only possible to train a child in the event of special educational measures, and there is no need for the consent of the parents. Now it will be possible if there are two schools or even three, but they are said to be rounding up especially in cities, for large interventions into the public school network. I was disappointed that they would not drop out of branch schools. In Maribor one of these already moved to the main school for the next fall or for the next school year. Schools will become branch schools if they do not have enough departments. And there's going to be a lot of changes. In particular, I would like to point out that things are mostly horizontal and seem to be either a 7.5% reduction in wages or a 10% reduction in wages. The measures hidden in the rebalancing of the national reform programme are far more far-reaching and, in particular, in the words of Minister Turk, the public sector monopoly must be highlighted because it is not said that everything in the public sector is in itself good. Of course, I would also like to hear the answer to this question because it reminds me of that story about bread and the incentive to reduce resources is motivation to find a way out of the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u34	It's about the Mag. Majde Pótt, to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, will be decided on Thursday in the framework of the votes. The following question will be posed to the Prime Minister of the Government by a mag. Melita Zupevec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, 11th year of the war in Afghanistan. Yesterday's news, Afghanistan shakes down suicide attacks at the start of a spring Taliban offensive. Today's newspapers, the biggest attack on Kabul in eleven years. France predicts that it will withdraw from Afghanistan a year earlier than planned, 2013. The Netherlands withdrew its troops two years ago and sent instructors there. For several years now, virtually everyone has been withdrawing their troops. And Slovenia, already in 2009, we decided to hold a thorough debate this year on whether we will continue our mission in Afghanistan. Prime Minister Pahor made a clear message last summer, "We will soon withdraw from Afghanistan with the agreement of the allies, the support of the National Assembly and the public". Such a decision was taken by both the Government and the National Assembly. They are therefore to leave Afghanistan in October of this year. But there was no anticipated reflection and debate, it was only a willful decision of the new government, a policy of enforcement, that we should remain in this troubled country until the end of 2014. For eight years we have been participating in international efforts to stabilise this country, and Slovenian soldiers have been doing their work in a professional way. After all these years, after the terrible balance of this war, a war for which the former ISAF Force Commander General McChrystal recently declared: "The United States and NATO are only halfway to achieving their goals in Afghanistan." In all these circumstances, we make such important decisions in Slovenia with unknown ease. I ask you, honourable Prime Minister of the Government: Why has your government taken a decision overnight, without discussion, to remain Slovenian soldiers in Afghanistan until the end of 2014? As a sovereign state, we are making sovereign decisions on how, where and how we will contribute to international security. To talk about the drastic decline in Slovenia's international reputation, the great blemish, the bad promise of Slovenian foreign policy, as your ministers say, is quite unrealistic at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u36	Mr Janez Janša, Prime Minister of the Government, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u37	Thank you for this question, but not for some claims. Not the National Assembly, not any committee of the National Assembly, nor the Government in the previous term have ever adopted any decision on the time limit for Slovenia's participation in Afghanistan, but only to determine the date of withdrawal. Not the National Assembly, not the competent committees of the National Assembly, not the Government. Here I have a decision adopted by the Defence Committee in January 2011, when it addressed the above-mentioned point or issue and took note of the strategy of the Republic of Slovenia in its efforts of the international community and so on, and adopted a decision: "The Foreign Policy Committee proposes to the Government that the possibility of full withdrawal should not be placed within any time period." Janja Klasinc, chairman of the committee. Indeed, the Committee ordered the government to make an assessment of the situation to be addressed last autumn. The government started doing this assessment last year. We have received a proposal or draft that has not been sent to the National Assembly, I do not know why. We have continued this procedure and have not substantially changed what has been proposed, with the exception that we have reduced the mission. This government has reduced the number of soldiers sent by Slovenia to Afghanistan. We have also assessed the positive and negative effects of cooperation and finally decided on a decision or decision that is known: we will remain until the end of the activity. These were also the signals that previous governments have been giving throughout these actions. It is important to know that 50 countries are participating in the Afghanistan alliance, that some of these countries have cooperated with contingents that have gone into tens of thousands and Slovenia with some or some ten soldiers and members. Of these 50 countries, only Iceland and Luxembourg have a smaller contingent in Afghanistan than Slovenia. So much so that no one will think about how Slovenia bears the main burden of this action in Afghanistan. This is our sovereign decision. We could have made a different choice. We could also speak vaguely in this sense, as some other countries say, when they say, we will retreat and then do something in one direction, another in the other direction. Slovenia wants to be a credible ally in those operations it decides to do. This mandate will continue to take place in 2014. We hope that the action or the whole mission, as far as possible, will be successful, because all other alternatives are worse and could be done, as long as it does not concern us that Slovenia is not part of this world, that we are not members of NATO, we are not members of the UN. This would probably take some time, and then, of course, it would have consequences that would be significantly worse. I think the government has made a good decision. It was not about changing anything from the conclusions that had been adopted so far. We simply continue the policy that has been pursued by all governments so far, and I think it is a smart approach.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u38	Mag. Melita Zupevc will request a supplement to the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That's just not true. There are other conclusions and other documents adopted by the Government. Finally, they also speak clearly about consultations with the National Assembly. But that's another subject and another question. See, we have always followed one of the three key principles in Slovenia so far. In addition to the coordination with the allies you have mentioned and the operations supported by the UN Security Council, we have been and are present in international operations in accordance with our capabilities. You said yourself in your response to your colleague Potret so we can spend as much money as we have. And obviously we don't have him for education. That's a fact. This is not popularism before the largest sentence in the history of Slovenia and I deliberately do not want to talk about cuts in hospital, maternity allowances, child allowances, pensioners' allowance. However, I would expect the government, which daily tells us that the situation in our country is terrible and that it will be even worse, to consider its priorities. So is one of the country's most important priorities today really war in Afghanistan?Oh, my God! In 2004, the costs of the Slovenian contingent in Afghanistan amounted to EUR 814 000. Seven and a half million last year. What's the cost next year? Eight? Nine? Ten million? I know what it means to be a NATO member, to fulfil obligations, to be responsible for international peace and security, but there are more ways to contribute. And as well illustrated by the President of the Parliamentary Assembly, NATO, we approve the funds allocated to national and collective defences. Therefore, we have a key responsibility to explain these decisions to our people. And this mission is harder than ever before. Will you, Prime Minister, do this to people, explain it to them, or do you find this too insignificant in these times?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u40	Mr. Janša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u41	I think that all governments have been doing this and explaining this since the beginning of this operation, which was in Slovenia at this time. And he doesn't think that there's any reduction in funds here. I said that from October onwards, when this rotation that we had decided on began, the previous government would decide, the Slovenian contingent in Afghanistan would shrink and the funds or costs would be reduced accordingly. It is also important to know that a large part of these costs Slovenia receives back through the aid we receive from the allies, either in this particular operation or in the implementation of other trainings, for which Slovenia does not have its own capacity. It would be very difficult to say here that this operation is essentially burdening Slovenian taxpayers. But to a certain extent, and this is our cost, our contribution to common security, which is also decreasing, as I said, in these situations, when resources for all are falling.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u42	Thank you. The last question to the Prime Minister will be put by Mr Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u43	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! The situation in the country is serious and citizens understand and accept that something has to be done because it is so easy to go no further. For too long, the country has lived on a large foot and spent the rights and money of future generations without having the opportunity to speak about the conduct of their parents. The cost of this luxury, paid in the form of interest, is rising rapidly. Our Member, Romana Tomc, has estimated that this year we will only devote so much interest to all pensioners to pay two additional pensions or to all students and students to grant scholarships for the next two years. This cost will, if we do nothing, only grow further, and every year it will only pay more pensions or scholarships, only an even greater portion of the social state and social justice. The measures, if we ever want to get out of this cycle of overindebted debt, will only be even more radical, only sharper, as the height of the debt will only increase. The populist, simplified and misleading interpretations of the part of the policy and the work of the unions of this situation will certainly not improve, but will only push them further down. However, the proposed public sector statement will also cause a lot of damage in an economy that is already experiencing major difficulties without it. In a very short period of time, the government has prepared a comprehensive set of measures to start the economy and to reduce the need for debt, which concerns all necessary areas from investment to social transfers and family policy. In particular, many of the interventions in the latter category are particularly sensitive, as many people are finding it difficult to accept even the temporary victim of rights acquired. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you: How will the measures affect individual social groups and when can we expect them to be able to re-establish reduced rights or standards? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u44	Mr Janša, Prime Minister of the Government, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u45	Thank you for asking. As I have already said in the answer to the first question today, we also maintain a high level of social rights through these austerity measures, a price that is embedded in all measures, which means that these measures do not affect the standard of those who live below the average or who do not reach income for a family member below 64% of the average wage. This is also a social protector for these measures, which some call radical. Second. Many measures are linked to a limited duration. This means that they will be valid for as long as Slovenia does not regain economic growth there 2% to 3%, allowing it to be allocated more to social transfers and other rights, not least for the rights of work for wages and other allowances. This is not about some cuts that, as previously misdirected, would be systematic in that they would be long-term trends in Slovenia that this government wants to enforce because it has, I don't know, a neoliberalist or, God forbid, a similar approach. With these measures, we are solving the situation that we have received. What will be the consequences if we don't, look around you, you don't have to look far south to Greece, you can look to Bulgaria, Romania, some Central European countries, you can look into the Baltic States and study the measures they have taken there. What awaits Slovenia if it does not accept this package for rationalisation and also some other obligations arising from the European Treaties, this is not the immediate fate of Greece, but to a large extent this situation of Latvia, which has already come into a position years ago when it was unable to finance its own public spending, the debt was limited or at some point of its bonds could no longer be sold in the financial markets and were forced into actual radical cuts, a 30% reduction in public sector employees. However, those who remained reduced their wages by 20% to 30%. Even today, you can meet at various conferences across Europe people who were once Latvian ambassadors, but today they are unemployed and are looking for work abroad. This is the next step that awaits Slovenia if it postpones another year. What we are proposing is not out of great joy, but rather the enthusiasm for having to deal with it. It was significantly easier in our previous mandate when we achieved high economic growth when it was actually possible to increase many of these rights. But now the situation is different and this situation needs to be adapted, but with a clear attitude that we are doing this because we will grow up again, that we will be able to pay up again, including children's allowances, work rights, pensions and so on, but this will be put on real growth, which means that we will finance it from what we create, not from the debt that someone else will pay, but also from us. As I said earlier, this year in the balance sheet or without a balance sheet, because it has to be paid, we will give 700 million euros for interest, our budget deficit, if the balance sheet is adopted, will be a good billion, so 70% of our deficit will be just interest money. And next year it will be even more and a year later, it will be less for education, for pensions, for wages, for the standard in the public sector, namely. This is an alternative, and I think it's perfectly clear which is the one that's good for us to choose.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u46	Thank you. This concludes the round of questions sent to the President of the Government. I thank Mr Janša for his participation. We turn to questions from Members of Parliament and Members to Ministers and Ministers. First, the question will be posed by the Magi. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs mag. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u47	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministerial council! A very short question: What is the government strategy or strategy of the competent minister for the development of family policy in Slovenia? In the coalition contract, you wrote: "The coalition partners in the area of social protection will follow a comprehensive family policy." If, in your previous mandate 2004-2008, the Government boasted that the Parental Protection Act has given us one of the most advanced and best systems in Europe and that by amending the Parental Protection Act, we have introduced a measure to increase fertility by the Government, I do not understand why today you are disrupting what you have built and what you find to be good, even the best in the European space. This suggests, forgive me, lack of long-term strategy and very dangerous work – playing with people and families. I will not compare Slovenia with Latvia and Greece, as the President of the Government likes to do. Even economists warn – cutting into a state of prosperity is a long-term way back, because a state of prosperity is a civil progress that is sustainable if you have normal policies, a functioning judicial system and you are successful in collecting taxes. In the current coalition contract, you wrote, inter alia, that "you will create favoured tax, housing and social security legislation for families", which is a quote from the coalition contract. Today, on the basis of those government measures that some in the Government have already taken and have already fallen into the National Assembly: reduction of maternity benefits, abolition of tax relief for the purchase of shelters for young families, abolition of the right to free kindergarten for another child, abolition of allowances for scholarships, reduction of child support, subsidised diet for children and pupils, reduction of child care and child protection benefits, hospital care for children, announced lower salaries in the public sector and dismissal. Among other things, when I look at the budget rebalancing, there is a sharp decline in funding in the breeding sector as well as in the provision of additional funds to children for special care and care. The measures in the area of family protection, prepared by the current Government, are not positive in terms of raising the quality of family life, and I believe that you agree to do so by improving the situation for young families or families with multiple children, but also by moving away from positive measures to increase fertility. And if I go back now to the original question, I ask: What is your strategy, Mr. Secretary, in the area of family protection?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u48	Minister Visjak, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u49	Dear Member, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The long-term strategy of this government is to provide conditions for a country of prosperity, for economic growth and also for a country that is friendly to the family. Of course, the key is to create these conditions. The way we are now going, the path that we have spent 20% more in this country for several years in a row than we create is the path to destruction. If we are to provide this country and families with prosperity, we need to stabilise public finances in the country, so we need to adjust the country's expenditure to revenue. The government and the National Assembly only allocate the resources created by Slovenian taxpayers and the economy. In fact, we are shifting from resources to those needed, on the basis of some principles, such as solidarity, the social state and so on. We can't divert money we don't have. And so not to talk about saving and cutting, but about adapting the country's spending to what we create in this country. And once again, if we want prosperity, if we want a friendly family policy, we must first adjust the expenditure side with an income. That is why, in the area that I am covering, work, family and social affairs, we are also interfering with certain rights on certain principles. What is an important and key principle that the President of the Government has stressed several times today? It is selective not to harm the socially weak. This selectivity applies practically to all the family policy measures proposed to balance public finances. What does that mean? This means that they will not lose the right to a child supplement or to any other, a large family allowance or a gift at the birth of a child, those who earn more than 64 % of the average gross net salary. How much is that? This is about €620 per family member. If I simplify, gifts at the birth of a child will not only be given to that family, this is what I am talking about the family of two parents and a child who earns more than a thousand 800 euros net, I am talking about the family budget. As you can judge for yourself, we do not interfere with the most socially weak. When we talk about allowances for a large family, then the allowance will not be justified by that family that exceeds EUR 3 000 100 of the family budget. I believe that these two cases illustrate selective measures that do not destroy the family. When is the easiest time for a family to develop? Where he lives in a stable, economically stimulating situation. That is why we want to create them with these measures. It is necessary for the development of the family to save Slovenia the burden of the crisis, to solve and bring optimism into people. Therefore, measures are needed to balance public finances in all areas. Family policy measures are also part of a temporary nature, such as intervention in child allowances. To date, she has also received a child’s allowance from a family in the eighth income class. For example, a four-member family where the father and the mother earned each of them about EUR 2 000 net and received for one child or for another twenty euro child allowance. This is said to be about four thousand euro of the family budget, which is a fourfold 99% of the average net salary, was the price for the child's allowance. And tell me, please, do you think it will be fatal to cut into family policy the fact that this eighth grade is no longer entitled to a child allowance, €40 per 4000 monthly income of the same family? Dearly beloved, we want to ensure a stable environment and business and family development in this country by means of measures. Unfortunately, this must also be done temporarily in the crisis with such unpopular measures. Don't think I'm happy and happy that I have to propose. However, understand that long-term policy is to stabilise the situation, to strengthen the economy, and not least to fuel optimism in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u50	Thank you. Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš will request a follow-up.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Minister, I find it hard to believe that you're giving families optimism by doing this. There will be protests in the streets, protests in the Society, the Family Initiative, in the Society for Assistance and Support to Breast-feeding Mothers, in the Women’s Lobby — against what? Against such measures, which constitute an unacceptable intervention in the area of family protection. Minister, it is not true that all the measures you are proposing are necessary. That's not true! Reducing maternity benefits is a political measure that constitutes an intervention in the system regime we know today. 2.5 million euros, if I recall correctly, would be an indication of how much you will save with this measure. EUR 2.5 million per year. On the other hand, we read in newspapers that in a state company or in a company with a majority owner of the state – Elektro Ljubljana – is making about 8 million euros a year. We have an alternative, only priorities need to be set very clearly. By the way, I have not heard any positive or positive action at all from your debate or response about a long-term family protection strategy. Not a single measure aimed at or countering an increase in fertility in our country. Europe reminds us that we are one of the oldest societies because we are under-born. These measures are moving away from being competitive and still setting an example for European Union countries in the field of regulated family protection.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u52	Complementary response. Mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u53	Dear Member! I am the father of three compulsory children and I know roughly what is important for the development of a family and for the development of children in this society, because I feel it on my own, so I find it difficult to listen to these findings, which are somewhat personal. I also know that the Member does not yet have the law and cannot know the numbers, so she gave the wrong numbers. When we talk about child protection and care, we have in Slovenia, internationally speaking, a relatively favourable solution, so we have 100% maternity leave for the first three months and then we have 100% compensation for the period of absence for the protection and care of the child. And almost no country knows that. When we weighed whether we would suggest a reduction in the time taken to receive this refund by one month in order to replace the 9 months 8 months of this child protection and care allowance, or to reach a slightly higher level, we decided on the latter. Here, too, we intervene more gently or less than some other countries, even in our immediate neighbourhood. We propose a reduction in the remuneration from 100% of the first six months to 90% and then the last three months to 80%, and for all those mothers who would fall below the minimum gross wage, we keep this lower limit of the minimum gross wage. It is not true, honourable Member, that the financial impact of this is 2.5 million. This year, yes, because the measure has entered into force since its adoption and, of course, it cannot have consequences if the first three months are 100 %. And those who receive 80% in the last three months do not fall at all this year, but in the coming years, because the measure does not apply to those who have already taken this right and are already recognised by a decision or whatever. It is therefore from the implementation of the measure. This measure will have an impact of around 40 million at annual level, this is next year and next years. This is the number and this 2.5 million is distorted by the late entry into force this year. It is not true, respected that this is any political measure. On the contrary. Above all, the international comparison and presentation of some other practices show that we are here among countries that are very, very friendly and treat this family with kindness in this measure. It is not true that there is not one measure to promote any developmental component. It's a whole package of measures. This is a package of measures to get out of the crisis, to balance public finances, so that tomorrow will be better. That's the point. If we do not do so today, more will have to be done in time. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u54	Proposal for a discussion on the answer, Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I will also, because it allows me to have a Rules of Procedure, propose a broader debate on the answer to this question at the next meeting. Why? Because I say that these austerity measures, which are not absolutely development-oriented, concerning the life and quality of life of Slovenian families, will affect not the weakest, but the broad middle layer. And this middle layer is going to fall very low. Some forecasts are even that the rate of poverty in our country will increase significantly due to austerity measures. And it already means one percent. The silenced truth is, Minister, that you want these measures, which mean, once again, a political intervention at the systemic level to put the foundations of the social state on a permanent and not just temporary basis. Permanently, not just temporarily. You are referring to a comparison with the countries of the European Union. The Prime Minister said today, "you compare the length of maternity leave". I have a comparison. Among the 16 countries in the European Union are only two countries with lower maternity leave from Slovenia, I am talking about maternity leave. This data is kept by the European Commission for 2011. On the basis of everything I have said, I still say that families will be in a significantly worse situation due to austerity measures. Only one of the stories that is circulating these days, with which we are familiar with Members and Members of Parliament. At the expense of the lower child allowance and free school meals available only to the most disadvantaged, a single-parent family with one school student per year would have less than €480. A family with two kindergarten children would lose EUR 3 000 723 per year to abolish free kindergarten for another child and a lower child allowance. A couple with three children, two of whom attend kindergarten and one of them attend primary school, and four thousand 776 children a year, as they would also be without compensation for a large family. And by the way, because the minister says, "The ambassador doesn't have a marriage yet." That's sad. On Thursday, the government adopted this mega law, which interferes with such important Members of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly today, on Monday, we do not have a law. And I hear we won't even have the right to see him until the government presents him to the public. Apparently, the unions don't have it yet. Dear fellows and fellows! These are the arguments that justify my right to the Rules of Procedure, and I ask you for support when we discuss this issue in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u56	The decision on your proposal will be made in the framework of Thursday's vote. I give the floor to Mr Sam Bevk, who will raise the question sent to the two ministers, namely Minister for Economic Development and Mag Technology. Radovan Žerjav and Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr. Žigi Turku. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u57	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! At the end of 2009, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision on the liquidation of the mercury mine Idria. Since then, a number of activities have been under way to continue and regulate the legal obligations arising from the law on the prevention of the consequences of half a thousand years of mining in Idrija. After the destruction of the mine, care will still have to be taken to maintain the indemnified part of the mine, monitor the closures, repair the environment and ensure the execution and maintenance of the rich cultural, natural and technical heritage associated with the Idrija mine. This is an extremely cross-cutting issue which concerns at least the ministries of environment and health in addition to the economic and cultural ministry. Last July, the government adopted a decision on the establishment of a public institution, the Idrija Centre for the Management of the Heritage of Living Silver, which is expected to take care of the heritage at the close entry into the UNESCO World Heritage List. At the same time, at the initiative of the Environment Ministry, an information and research centre for mercury was also set up in 2008 and will have an important role in the global scale when a global convention on mercury, prepared by the UN, will be adopted in 2013, with the active participation of our government. All these planning activities represent an outstanding development project for both Idrija and Slovenia. The Minister responsible for the economy, Mag. I ask Dr. Žigo Turk about the imminent liquidation of the mercury mine: How will the maintenance of the mine and the security of the city of Idria be regulated, and the management and preservation of the natural and cultural heritage in the light of Idria's near entry into the UNESCO World Heritage List? And I also want to know: How is the implementation of the government decision establishing the Public Institute for the Management of the Heritage of Living Silver Idrija? I thank both ministers in advance for their reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u58	The answer will be given by Minister Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u59	Thank you so much for asking. The hard work in the Idrija mine has been completed. As you said, in the previous term, the Government has taken a decision to initiate a regular winding-up procedure. The liquidation process is planned and is in final phase. Technical inspections will take place in April and May this year. On the basis of these, an appropriate decision will be taken to partially abolish the mining right. The winding-up manager shall then draw up a final report. Until the end of the regular liquidation of the mercury mine, maintenance of the indemnified part of the cave and monitoring shall be provided on the basis of the annual work programme of the company adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia each year in accordance with the five-year programme for the period 2008-2012. The level of appropriations for this year will be definitively set out in the budget. Of course, funds are foreseen for this purpose. With regard to the implementation of the Government Decision establishing the State Public Institute for the Management of the Heritage of Mercury Idrija, a proposal for measures and activities is under inter-ministerial consideration. The institution is the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of Health are also involved. In order to implement the government decision, the institution's work programme with defined activities and staff structure must first be prepared and financially evaluated, only on this basis will the Government be able to adopt the relevant decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u60	Thank you very much. If I can also add a little bit to the position of protecting cultural technical heritage. The fact is that Slovenia has done relatively little in recent years to properly evaluate this heritage so that, as a country, we can also try to get things into Unesc's list. We want, we are working on changing this trend. We have many natural architectural, artistic, and technological monuments that deserve such protection. At the Ministry we closely monitor the listing of the Idrija mercury mine in Unesc's list. I also met with the Spanish ambassador last week. For you know that the mercury mine is listed in Unesc's list along with a similar Almaden mine in Spain. At the edge of the meeting of the Council of EU Ministers for Culture, I will also meet with my Spanish colleague to coordinate the action and to close this process as soon as possible. As regards the establishment of a public institution, this is the Idria Heritage Management Centre, which is in some ways also a condition that this Unesc heritage will be listed first and that we will then take good care of it, procedures, as already said by colleague Žerjav, are progressing. In accordance with the provisions of this Decision of the Government, which was already in 2008, several meetings were convened at the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport a week ago. On the one hand, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the Ministry of Health. We note that the centre is of national importance and that this decision of the Government on the establishment of this centre is being implemented. On 5 April we met representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, on 11 April with the local community, i.e. the municipality of Idria, with the Rudnik of mercury, d.o.o. – in liquidation and with the City Museum of Idria. We commit ourselves to drawing up a coordinated work plan in this area within two months, i.e. for the Idrija Heritage Management Centre, including a programme by area and with individual financial responsibilities of the resources. Everything will, as I say, be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia within two months.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u61	Here you go, Mr. Bevk. Request for complete response.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! Thank you so much, mag. A crane as Dr. Turk for a thorough answer to my question. But I'd like to point out a problem. The Minister responsible for mining said that there is a government programme for the period 2008-2012, that even those obligations arising from the law on the prevention of the effects of mining in the Idrija mine, that even after it is destroyed and the mine is actually closed, will need to be taken care of by the unsalted part of the mine, that is to say for the safety of the Idria city itself, for the maintenance of the tourist mine or that mine which will continue to be kept for sightings, and that, in the context of this question, he would also give the initiative to prepare this medium-term programme 2013-2017 as soon as possible, to ensure that the mine continues to be maintained in order to continue to monitor the closures carried out. However, this is certainly a project that offers further development opportunities. In addition to ensuring the security of the city itself, this world centre for mercury and finally together, I hope, the third successful entry of Spain and Slovenia into the UNESCO World Heritage List. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u63	Would you like, Minister, to complete the answer? No, no, no. Thank you. Ms Alenka Jeraj will ask the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. I would like to ask the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport about the announced changes to the standards in primary schools, in comparison with other countries. It seems to me that the burden would actually fall not only on the users of these services, but also on the starting point. We have indeed increased or changed standards in recent years to improve the quality of education, so my question is also whether we have actually achieved a certain quality. We know that in recent years we have dealt with a whole lot of different research, international research, in which our schoolchildren have not done their best. I want to know: What is the actual situation in this area, what is the actual employment rate and how many children sit in individual classes in primary schools — because there are different data on this — and how much do you think this could actually value such a service if we were to complete the classes more fully?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u65	The word is from the Minister, Dr. Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u66	Thank you so much for asking. In these debates, when we talk about this intervention law or about saving up in the fields of science, culture, education and sport, there are actually a lot of things going on around these norms. Let me start with some statistics just across the entire educational vertical. If we are talking about kindergartens, then the average size, the average number of children per teacher, is a kindergarten teacher in European countries 13.7 children. In Slovenia, this is between 8 and 9.4 in the lower or higher age group, so we are strong below the average. If we're looking at the size of the primary school wards. The average of OECD countries is 21.4 children in the primary school department, which is 18.5 in Slovenia. In doing so, it should be noted that the OECD are the most developed countries in the world, the richest countries in the world, this is the club we have recently joined. In secondary schools, the average OECD 24 children are in the classroom; in Slovenia, on average 19.8 children are in the classroom. If we look at tertiary education, i.e. admission to colleges, universities and so on, Slovenia is the country where the largest proportion of all youth is enrolled in universities and tertiary education. I am not talking about whether this education also ends, but certainly burdening the employees there, the premises and all the resources, by entering, means also that they do not complete any useful secondary education. If we were to compare teacher work standards, how long does the teacher spend with the students in the classroom? In OECD countries 780 hours per year, in Slovenia 690 hours per year. I repeat, the OECD are the richest countries, almost everything is richer than us. In other words, in the European Union, a teacher works in primary school with children between 19 and 23 hours a week. Who will say that in Slovenia there is also a standard here somewhere. But watch out! This is a 60-minute clock, not a 45-minute clock. In Slovenia he spends 16 and a half hours with children with 60 minutes. What we are proposing in this terrible increase in standards, which is supposed to make even a disaster in the field of education in Slovenia, is that instead of 16 and a half hours in the class of 17 hours and 15 minutes, that is, one school hour more, still deep under the European 19 to 23 hours. With regard to the quality of education in Slovenia, we must find that primary education is not bad. This is shown by PISA tests, especially mathematics, science among the better countries in the world, comparatively poor results in Slovenian. Then the quality of Slovenian education falls when people go to school for longer periods. Universities, higher education, and here we no longer achieve the same quality as in other areas. There is a constant question as to whether larger standards or larger groups constitute a decline in quality. Here we can rely on one OECD study, which we have quoted many times, a review for Slovenia, in 2010, it was published, a lot of education and education, and directly recommended a more cost-effective school system, an educational system. They explicitly wrote that in all the review of the OECD members over the long decades, it had not been observed that the size of the departments would have had anything to do with the quality of the results. And something similar for those who do not want to believe the OECD as if it were an international conspiracy of capital, something similar the previous government asked the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors replied that it estimates that the increased standards do not affect the poorer quality.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u67	Thank you. Mag. Stanko Stepišnik will raise the question of the question to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Happy Zerjava.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At its 10th regular meeting on 12 April 2012, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a national reform programme for 2012 and 2013 and authorised the Ministry of Finance to forward it to the European Commission. This programme takes into account measures for the fiscal consolidation and priorities, objectives and strategies of the Republic of Slovenia and the EU by 2020. In addition to this, the NRP also contains key structural measures to stimulate economic growth. The Annex is also a standard table for assessing specific recommendations and macro-structural measures in the NRP. These include the main areas: public finances, the labour market with measures, the market for products and services, this is just something that could be done with regard to the economy, one measure is the establishment of an independent competition agency, financial markets, measures that affect the macroeconomic scenario. From all of this, there is almost no measure to stimulate economic growth – a signal we sent to the European community. In the NRP, in the table of Key Economic Growth Indicators, Slovenia reported the following data as an annex for 2009-2013: Smaller Gross Social Product, -0.9%, Private Consumption, -1.2%, Investments, -1.5%, and exports are increasing +1.4%, indicating a deep decline in economic growth and a smaller social gross product. In particular, this decline in economic growth shows what is happening today in the environment, which is said to be a number of companies that are waiting and are just ahead of insolvency and bankruptcy. Mr. Minister, your promises before the elections were that it was necessary to fight for every job. With this pre-election promise you probably got quite a few votes. The current involvement of your ministry in maintaining jobs in Primorje companies, Radeče paper, Pinus, Kongrad, CM Celje and so on does not show great interest in fulfilling and keeping pre-election promises. Question: When and how will you reverse the trend of negative economic growth?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u69	Minister Žerjav, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u70	Thank you very much for that question. I hope you're not reading these numbers to me, given that we've been in office as long as we are. I came to this meeting practically from a press conference where we presented the budget rebalancing and measures to boost the economy this year. I can say that more than 25 measures have been presented, worth almost €400 million. Let me get started. Unfortunately, some of the measures that we keep repeating and are crucial to our assessment that we will stimulate economic growth, are used as, I will say, an unacceptable argument for the collapse of austerity measures. We believe that work should be done primarily in a competitive business environment, i.e. through horizontal measures at the expense of vertical measures. And in the National Assembly, there are already some measures in the form of laws, as you have dealt with them, I don't know if at this meeting, I think. The first key is, of course, to lower the corporate income tax. Why are we doing this? Because we are competing with business environments in an area where this tax is lower than the income of legal persons. We are all aware that in the area of reducing labour costs, which is a key problem of the Slovenian economy at the moment, we cannot do anything because we have no space. I'm sorry that pension reform failed. In this case, it is likely that something could be done for a more competitive business environment on this segment. So that's not possible. We have therefore proposed a reduction in corporate income tax to create a more competitive business environment not only for our investors, but also for foreign investments that we want to attract. Secondly, an unlimited 40% tax relief for investments in equipment and intangible assets. Why? Because we want to encourage investment. Furthermore, 100% of the overall tax relief for investing in R & D, most importantly to encourage economists to invest in development and research in order to create new jobs. I'm not going to mention changing the Income Act. For all four measures, approximately €150 million is allocated. I can put it in front of you. Financial engineering measures for the economy. In particular, we want to participate in small and medium-sized enterprises in providing funding sources with guarantees for bank loans with interest rate subsidies. At the moment, there is an invitation to tender for 27 million, preparing a new 54 for guarantees for bank loans for technologically innovative projects and so on. We're staying with venture capital instruments, which I think is important. Approximately 60 million venture capital is available for innovative and promising companies. Measures to support the start-up of companies. We'll continue with that. It began in that mandate there, the previous mandate continued and we continue to do so. We're also adding upgrades to networking and mentoring programs. We want to fill the most risky time of creation of new businesses, which is the most risky in the beginning to help economists and entrepreneurs there. We're moving on to the development centers. There's 16 of them. We continue to support the environment by promoting the support environment represented by the various actors. Entry points, technology parks, incubators and so on. Not to mention administrative obstacles. I'm going to mention some other important things that seem crucial to me. Once there is a bilateral compulsory net, a response to non-discipline of payments, and we are preparing in the law on the prevention of late payments an irrevocable payment instrument, an enforcer with which the creditor will come to his claim without the assistance of the court. We want to shorten this time for the creditor to come to his claim in some real time. And then I'll keep going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u71	Thank you. Mag. Stepan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u72	Thank you very much. There have been some encouraging words, and I am very pleased. These measures actually increase the competitive capacity of our economy, which you have mentioned. However, they are too modest to increase economic growth and increase social gross product. Therefore, it will probably be necessary to start with greater infrastructure investments in Slovenia, such as transport, transport routes, rail tracks, piers, hydroelectric plants and so on. I know it's extremely difficult to get money for this, but this is an effort, and this effort must be made by you because you are in the government. You rule, we don't rule. This will open the way for us because we will be able to hire these 110 000 unemployed, of which there are 36,000 young people between 20 and 35 years old, and create new taxes and contributions because we urgently need them in the state budget. I would therefore like in particular to ask that these procedures – from the media – be understood that the Koper–Divač railway track could start to be built, but bureaucratic procedures are so long that it will not be possible this year or the second year. If it's a crisis, then let it be a crisis for everyone. And these bureaucratic procedures also need to be reduced from 30, 60, 90 days to a shorter period.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u73	Minister Zerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u74	I'll sign everything you said. I couldn't agree more. Look, the modernisation of the existing line of Divac-Koper. In my time, four building permits were obtained. I don't know why things don't work out. We'll see why nothing happened at the time. I agree, yes, these infrastructure investments are crucial. And that is why we are talking about making a more competitive business environment in order to acquire foreign capital. I'm afraid we don't have it. We're all aware of that, because if we had it, things would probably be running. However, if we are to attract foreign capital, the business environment must be such that this capital will come itself and create a model on which such investment can also be financed, whether it will be a public-private partnership or something else. I will mention some other measures that seem crucial to me. The pooling of PDP, AUKN, Court and Kad agencies is being intensively prepared with the inclusion of certain funds, including a fund for stranded investments, in order to clear bank balance sheets to enable banks to start performing their function with new fresh capital coming from the outside. This will be done by people who know how to manage bad investments. That seems crucial to me. The takeover law is already under consideration. We're lifting the take-over threshold to 33%. We want to encourage and speed up trade on the Slovenian stock exchange. And another important thing is to operationalise the guarantee law we passed in the previous term. It is still available through this law for a billion guarantees. But this marriage is dead and it's not working. Therefore, we are intensively preparing a regulation that will operationalise this law, and I hope that these guarantees will be available to the Slovenian economy and that in some way we will limit the credit crunch that is here and is stifling the Slovenian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u75	Ms Tina Komel will raise a question of the delegation to the Minister of Finance, Dr Janez Šuštersič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Dear Mr. Secretary! As you know, at the end of March, the bank seized all the liquidity assets in the company’s transaction account that Casino had prepared primarily for employees’ salaries. Casino is supposed to fall into insolvency, and owners are also expected to be informed. Let me mention that because of liquidity problems, Casino already owes employees contributions for the last few months, tips, regresses and could also list. Bank confiscation is supposed to prevent the necessary recapitalisation. A long extension of the position without a recapitalisation would be fatal for Casino. The company has been in financial trouble for a long time and would probably not have survived or matured to bankruptcy without recapitalisation. The media have learned that the Ministry of Finance or you, as the competent minister of the Kad and Sod parastatal funds, the largest or majority owner of Casino, should address a letter in which you agree with the way in which the company was being rehabilitated, as proposed by the Casino administration. So you invited them to rescue this casino company in a way that would be recapitalised by current owners and local communities. However, despite your letter, Kad and the Court are expected to delay the process of remedying the company, although some agreements have already been reached. As a Member, I would like to ask you: What will you do as a competent minister to stop the delay in recovery, causing additional unnecessary losses, in order to allow the survival of Casino Portorož and thus the preservation of jobs, and to avoid the loss of the casino company being offset by the tourist offer of one of our tourist pearls? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u77	Minister Shuštersich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u78	Thank you for asking. In fact, the question of Casino Portorož and its recapitalisation was one of the issues we encountered as soon as we took over the business. Of course, as you yourself said, at some point we also expressed a written opinion that we want these matters to be resolved in a common interest. Of course, it is necessary to be very clear about the powers that the Minister of Finance has here. As for Kad and Sod, he can't order anything from them, he can only recommend it. And within these powers, we have also acted as we have understood the situation. However, the Minister of Finance or the Ministry has some other powers that are specifically linked to gambling, and we had to decide first whether to allow Kadu and the Court to sell these shares. The Government adopted such a decision on 22 February 2012 and also authorised the sale and thus took the first step. It was something that wasn't quite easy to do. There were also different opinions within the Ministry, we had to look quite carefully at the issues. The second step is, of course, the question of whether we then allow a specific society to acquire Casino shares. Here we must take into account before we issue this decision, at least two rules or two principles. One provision is the Law on Gambling, which also provides for a minimum share of the state to 50%, and the assessment of whether the acquirer is in fact in real and business condition, that he is able to ensure some stable development of the company in this case Casino, which takes over. As it is said, in the first phase, it was impossible to give consent to any of the interested parties, but there was an option, a solution was found, but we wanted to stimulate the dynamics of the solution and, as it turns out, we were successful in doing so. I think that it will be possible to recapitalise in the short term and that this will also provide some solution to the Casino perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u79	Thank you. The next question will be posed by the Magi. Truda Cinderella, Minister of Infrastructure and Space Zvonku Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, I am asking you a question about a concrete investment in state roads, namely the reconstruction of the Maribor-Falska road in the Ruše municipality. For that investment, the contractor was already selected and the contract was signed by the Mayor of Ruša Municipality. Please provide information on the current status of the facility and the expected start of work. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr. Minister Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u82	Thank you so much for asking. Good bye to all of you! As you know, public finances are moving in very tight areas this year, and some of these acute circumstances are also appropriate to rationalise or reduce the expected road infrastructure resources. For data only, under the 2012 budget, which was foreseen on the expenditure side of €10 billion and €300 million, these restrictive public financial frameworks had to be reduced through the proposal for a rebalancing that had been adopted by the Government and will be dealt with briefly by the National Assembly by about a billion euros. It is perfectly logical and clear that the reductions in all areas or in all spending rights and those 200 million less resources that we anticipate in the field of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space are those within which we will be forced to move in 2012. In 2012, EUR 717 million will not be available, as was unrealistically foreseen in 2010, when this budget was set up and EUR 509 million if the National Assembly approves this rebalancing. Previously, we have heard that restrictions are envisaged in the social security field. Perhaps this is also the reason that this year's overall infrastructure has to be cut down a little bit more heavily on the part that does not burden so many social protection issues concerning our general environment, but, knowing that, within the means available in this financial and next financial perspective, we can do everything possible in terms of content. Specifically in the area of reconstruction and reconstruction of the state road network, approximately 50 million less resources will be available this year than anticipated. This figure is moving somewhere at EUR 156 million instead of almost EUR 200 million earlier. With regard to the specific answer to a specific question, however, I can say that this regional road Maribor-Falska cesta in the municipality of Ruše is just before an appropriate contract is concluded to implement that work, especially after the signing of this contract by the municipality of Ruše or its mayor, will be able to start in spite of everything this year and will be completed in accordance with the financial plans in 2013.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Mirko Brulc, Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar, will ask the next question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u84	Nice greetings to all present! Dear Mr. Secretary! In 2007, the Oncology Institute in Ljubljana enabled the hospital in Novi Gorica, according to the hospital Franca Derganca in Šempeter in Gorica, to treat cancer patients. The hospital Celje and Maribor received the same offer, but these hospitals did not start to do so. In Šempeter, Gorica, however, they trained the staff, they invested a lot of money in the investment, it is said to be in the pharmacy, in the equipment, all from their own resources, but in these years there was a Circus million costs that the Oncology Institute does not recognise because it says that there is no special reduction in the number of patients being treated at regional hospitals. I believe, because unfortunately these patients are getting more and more, and this number has so increased, but, Minister of Respect, this is a great gain for patients who, otherwise, have to drive daily to Ljubljana, not only from Nova Gorica, also from Bovec, from Kobariška and elsewhere, says 150 kilometers to Ljubljana, 150 kilometers back in such a state, these are also transport costs. And that's why I'm asking: Mr. Minister, are you prepared to engage in solving this case, as it were, in paying for the work done? I would like to mention in particular that the General Hospital of Franca Derganca has so far had no financial difficulties due to diligent and careful savings. Other hospitals have received major financial injections in the past, and this hospital has not. And in order not to be punished for doing rational work, I really ask you if you can get involved in an agreement with the Oncology Institute and the hospital so that the matter can be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u85	Minister Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u86	Thank you for asking. Dear Members and Members! So, as was said, of course, the number of cancer patients worldwide and also in Slovenia has been increasing over the years, and this was also the reason why the ministry also supported the general agreement that was adopted last year and which it distributed to some hospitals, as told by the hospital in Šempetr, Celje and Maribor, to consider a number of cancer patients. This means primarily systemic treatment of these patients, not this operational part, which is also carried out by most hospitals. And somehow it was assured by hospitals that they had sufficient staff and conditions to take these patients over. However, the general agreement stipulated that the costs of these medicines, which are of course extremely expensive, would be covered from their budget, according to the contract with the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, the Oncology Institute. Of course, it was clear that some other costs would arise at the same time, as these patients were to be prepared not later than once, certain laboratory tests, possibly blood, if needed and so on, and that these parallel costs would, of course, be analysed during the next period. And the funds for this, of course, should be provided by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance from the reserve to which these cancer patients would be transported to the Oncology Institute, given that they would be treated in maternity hospitals. The Oncology Institute has fully compensated for the costs of medicines, the remaining costs in the Slovenian Department of Health Insurance are outstanding. On the other hand, it turned out that these additional costs are much higher than the savings made by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. Let me also mention that in the treatment of any disease, we are working to ensure that these patients have approximately the same standard of treatment throughout the country, in accordance with some clinical guidelines, routes and so on. And the conclusion that was then reached was when these additional patient treatment costs were verified that these costs at the secondary level were much higher than those for the same treatment, the framework for tertiary treatment at the Cancer Institute. And we are at this point in time that we need to see where the higher price on the secondary level is said in regional hospitals, why it happened. Then, of course, it is a matter of a system-wide agreement on funding by the health insurance institution. The Oncology Institute fulfils its obligations in this part. In agreement and, of course, with the likely annex or amendment of the general agreement, adequate funding will have to be provided. And here, of course, the ministry will cooperate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u87	Thank you. Ms Renata Brunskole will ask the Minister for Infrastructure and Space Zvonet Montenegro. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! Under the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, the preparation of the State Spatial Plan is concluded by the adoption of the State Spatial Plan Regulation in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is why the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Zvonk Černač, asks: Does the Ministry plan to adopt any of the State spatial plans for the third development axis, or in this connection also for others, other developmental axes in the plans? I also ask the Minister: Will all the funds provided in the 2012 budget of the Republic of Slovenia remain in the 2012 budget balance of the Republic of Slovenia? In view of the review of the proposal for a rebalancing, I note that, for example, for the third development axis, from EUR 2.5 million, a reduction of EUR 1.2 million to EUR 300,000 is envisaged. These funds amounting to EUR 2.5 million were foreseen for land purchases in the area from New Town to Malin. Why am I saying this in particular? Today there was also a lot of discussion about intervention measures, about aid, about 110 000 unemployed, of which 36,000 young people are unemployed, and in this area of development axes of southern work from New Town to Malin we are talking about, several times in the previous mandate we have also talked about, the media also wrote about the parade horses of Slovenian exports – Krki and Revoz. We find that for Krka the export route from the highway is arranged, by saying that for Revoz it is extremely bad, not to say fairer or worse, stepmother. 200 trailer trucks drive or somehow stop all traffic in Dolenjska, New Town and on their way to the White Landscape or from the White Landscape to Ljubljana. And in connection with today's talk, and – at 20 o'clock we will be at the Committee on Finance – on development, support for the economy, on income laws, taxes, facilitations and so on, I support all of this, but if people have work to do if roads, development axes are to be built, companies will have jobs, and certainly people will, and we will all survive better together. Please, Minister, for the answers regarding the timetable and whether you will fight to keep the funds in balance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u89	Minister Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u90	Thank you very much for that question. Maybe there's some information here first. Placement of the third development axis into space began in the northern part in 2004. We are now writing 2012 and the regulation has not yet been adopted for eight years. In the second part, and in the southern and central part, this initiative was complemented in 2006, and no regulation has been adopted for six years. I, as you know, took over this facility two months ago, and one of the priorities was to review all the activities that are taking place at the installation of individual facilities of infrastructure importance in space. Priority has been given particularly to infrastructure projects that are important in terms of the further development of individual areas in our country and in view of the accelerated contribution to economic growth. Surely the third development axis in both the north and the south is one of those projects which is extremely important for this country and for each environment. However, even if we maximize our activities during this period and close at least two of the planned national spatial plans on this route this year, what will not be essential in this year's purchases, because you know that the State Spatial Plan must first be adopted, then we can approach the purchase of land on this route. This is also why the funds provided for in the 2012 unrealistic planned budget planned for 2010 are falling under this heading, which does not mean that they will jeopardise activities in the process of acquiring and facilitating the deployment of this route into space. The additional problem on this route is also the fact that in recent years, in every way, it has tried to find a variant, at least in the northern part of this axis from the highway to Velenja, which was not environmentally appropriate and which faced enormous problems in putting into space. And that this problem has been attempted in such a way that, in the interim period, the rules of the game have changed in order to obtain an appropriate environmental positive decision. This is not going to work, we just need to be aware if there is an ecologically controversial route that cannot be placed in the space, then we need to face this fact and find a better, alternative, cheaper solution as soon as possible. The Government is aware of this problem and has therefore also adopted a decision at the meeting last week when it addressed this issue specifically by placing the third development axis in the area with which our ministry commissioned us to carry out appropriate activities by the end of this month in cooperation with other departments, which will help to establish a fairly clear timetable for the placement of individual infrastructure projects into the area, projects that are important for the country and for the development of individual areas. I estimate that most of this route can be placed in a space within a year, with the adoption of state spatial plans in the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u91	Here you go, Mrs. Brunskol.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I understand you, Minister, that within three months you cannot really work alone on such rapid changes that require a longer period of time. However, I am asking you here primarily because, in any way, I would not want to be personally harsh with you, but mainly because, as far as I am aware of earlier as a representative of one of the local communities in this area, if I speak of the southern part, as well as the northern part and the central part, I have been quite familiar with as members of the Committee on Transport in the previous term, I am asking you in particular because, in February or March of this year, the first section of the State Spatial Construction Plan in the southern part of the area was envisaged – as I said about Krka and Revoz – from the New City to the Malina tunnel. And let me tell you that the public decompositions that took place in the previous year from 3 March to 4 April 2011 have been so constructive in contrast to the northern or central work that in some way they have surpassed the timeline in such a way that the previous government and also the Ministry of Transport have found that February or March 2012 are the reality of adopting this plan. And even this year’s conclusions, from a few weeks ago, the Bellocranean congregations or the preceding week from Montenegro go this way to continue. And I would really ask if you would specifically answer me, people in the Ministry, I assume that they are mostly others, at least professional colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u93	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I have this timeline right here in front of me because it's part of this report I was talking about earlier. It has been prepared, as you have found, by the same people who are staring at the fact that placement in the northern part has been taking place since 2004 and has not been completed until now. It has been prepared by the same people, who are looking to ensure that housing in the southern part takes place from 2006 to today and is still not completed. And I can read to you, here is the time-table for the southern part, for the state spatial plan from the state road AC A2 of the new town ring to the accession of Malina – October 2012; for the second part from Malina to the border crossing of Metlik and Črnomeljj south – April 2014. I can read your other hands. I can also read what the Interdepartmental Group established last year by your government, where in one part this Interdepartmental Working Group, which was established solely to help accelerate the placement of this section into the space, concluded, inter alia, that "the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food in the process of preparing the State Spatial Plan or verifying the appropriateness of the environmental report has warned that the F2 option is the least acceptable", I say for the northern part, "and proposed a study of variants on Arjo Vas", this has not happened. Mr. Židan was then Minister of Agriculture. And that is why I spoke earlier when it comes to putting in a place where it is found that the space does not tolerate the installation of such an infrastructure facility and it is determined by the profession that this fact should be taken into account and another solution should be found as soon as possible. I also said at the hearing that we would speed up the procedures, but not at the expense of hitting everyone in the environment. And that's what we're gonna do. I firmly believe that these hands for the southern part listed here, October 2012 and 2014 are too long and that they can be shortened. However, the placement must be taken into account rationally, wisely, in all aspects. Even the financial ones. This section is fully worth over €2 billion, which will be very difficult to provide from some private sources. So we are left with the next financial perspective 2012-2014. And our ambition is to ensure this section during this period. For this reason, I also intend to present to both the Government and this National Assembly a concrete plan of activities to take place during this programming period, after years and financially valid, of course. In another case, we'll plan, place, and do nothing for years and years. So, honourable Member, thank you very much for this question. It is our ambition to accelerate these activities, of course, and to carry out this project in the most rational way.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u95	Procedurally, Mrs. Brunskole. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I would only politely ask for this written answer because I see you have a written report as well. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u97	Mr Franc Jurša will ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u98	Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! My question is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, and it is related to the construction of the Pomeranian water pipeline or the provision of drinking water to Pomurje. The beginnings of drinking water supply to Pomurje date back to 2005, when the mayors of 25 municipalities of Pomurje signed with that time the Ministry of the Environment and Space Treaty on the Construction and Operation and Joint Management of the Regional Supply System with Drinking Water of Pomurje. The project is of great importance to the Pomur region. In recent years, municipalities have invested a lot of resources to produce project investment documentation and to buy land. Advisory engineers leading all processes, including the preparation of an application for the allocation of funds from the Cohesion Fund, are also selected. The estimated value of the investment, separately from system A, B and C, is already known. For system C, EUR 50 million is earmarked for the entire project. This would build about 222 km of water network and 30,5 km of sewage network with related facilities. Unfortunately, the project is not carried out according to plans. The project managers note that the decision on the project is very difficult, even impossible in individual cases. The problem has arisen at the country level, as the editors responsible for this project at the competent ministry are blocking and blocking it with their inactivity and inappropriate decisions. Since the project has not been implemented with the expected dynamics, I ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment: What are the next concrete steps the Ministry will take to finally revive the project? I also ask the Minister: What activities, with a view to the successful implementation of the Pomurje drinking water supply project, are carried out by the competent ministry? What measures are required to achieve this objective for local communities? I also want to know: What are the key deadlines and conditions for individual phases of the project to be reached by the State and local communities in order to finally develop this project successfully? Will all efforts be made to do so?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The Minister's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u100	Nice greeting, honourable Member of the Jurs, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! The question is addressed to the implementation of a very difficult project. The project, which is also a major priority in the functioning of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. Mr Jurša presented in detail the complexity of this project. It's just an easier play, it's more than a thousand kilometers of water pipes together, it's called water systems. It's more than 30 ponds, 40 pumps. This project extends to the whole of Pomur, in part to the Armenian end, and the last fourth unit, which has not been mentioned here, also in some ways falls within the framework of projects carried out in water supply in this part of the Republic of Slovenia. We're all aware that this is a very vulnerable area. That it is also a technically very demanding project. This is a project led by a number of municipalities and has been divided into three systems: A, B, C. Finally, the fourth system was added, which adds an additional EUR 10 million to these envisaged 123 million. In a timeline that has been very clearly designed for this project in the past, and when we look at it today, we see that there are two years of delays in some of the timetables. That is why it is really necessary for the project to be carried out. The current timeline, which is also very sharp for the very use of European funds largely foreseen by the Cohesion Fund in this area, foresees that, for the first version, this set A could come to an end at the end of this year, in December. It means that construction can begin at the beginning of next year. On system B, a similar deadline plan, also on system C, while on the armistice part it is possible to complete already in the middle of this year and then start building itself. Mr Jurša explained in detail that the project is carried out in such a way that everyone in this project has shared their obligations and that in this part there is also a need for good cooperation between both local communities, those who organise and manage these projects, as well as the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. As I have already said, in reviewing and taking over the function and identifying the priorities of our co-workers, the cohesion projects were the ones to which we first focused, together with the Ministry of Economy and other colleagues in the Government, we agreed to resume the weekly coordination and to go from project to project and to address the shortcomings of each project. As far as all these three projects are concerned, it is for the next week that a meeting of all the actors involved, such as individual actors, is planned to be held in individual units, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, as well as the Ministry of Economic and Technological Development. Together with the engineers, we want to take a very precise look from the project to the project, have a clear timetable for achieving those goals that I have set before. It is said to start in the following year, at the beginning of the year on the first three stages and in the middle of this year on this fourth set. I demand and insist from my colleagues that this is certainly priority number one, and I believe that we have partially already, and in part we also need to be teamed up to achieve these objectives, which we have also achieved in these necessary projects for Pomurje. From this place, I can safely say that the activities are in progress. Next week, we will also go through the entire projects in detail with all those responsible, draw up future plans accurately and share responsibility. There is a great deal of responsibility on both sides, and I do not want to argue that the blame is only on the co-workers within the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. I certainly do not mean to say that on our part things have been perfectly guided, supported, but the weight and size of the project is such that much effort will have to be made with coordinated work on both sides. I believe that we will also achieve these goals.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u101	Here's your supplement, Mr. Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u102	Mr Minister, I, too, as a Member, do not care who it is and who is not to blame, I have mentioned some of the points in my opening statement on the question. It is important that we carry out this project. That's the key. In view of the fact that the project is also known in the so-called pomor law and that the implementation of the pomur law will be in the period 2010-2015 and that the development period 2007-2013 and that the projects can only be implemented by 2015, I am particularly interested, Mr. Minister, because the project is also important for the pomur economy or for the Slovenian economy: Will we be able to bring the project in all four systems – you were talking about four, I was talking about three porous systems: A, B and C, and of course the fourth is, D, which is at the armistice end – in this time until the end?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u103	The Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u104	As I have already mentioned, the deadlines have already been tightly exceeded in the past, so this work could have started at that time. In view of the current situation, we estimate that work in the first three sets will start earlier than in one year, which means that we will then also do it in 2013, 2014, 2015, and this is also, as you have rightly established, a period of both the pomur law and the period of this financial perspective. And within our priorities in the use of cohesion funds, where water supply is one of the four areas in which the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment deals, these projects are a priority, as I said: the urban water supply, the Belarusian water supply, which, under the second law and other programmes, is supported by both sides, both developmental and cohesion. We will do everything we can to do this, and once again we estimate that the conditions are given so that we can carry out these projects during this cohesion period and the period of law adopted for this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Kavticnik will ask the Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport Dr Žigi Turku.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Minister, I assume that your ministry, which covers many areas, has taken over because you are aware of the importance of these areas and want to do as much as possible in your mandate for the quality of work in particular areas. I am particularly interested in the field of education, because I have come directly from school to Parliament and I am still aware of the situation and the state of the situation if these forecasts of changing standards are put in place. We've already heard something about regulations today. The Minister or the Prime Minister said there was nothing drastic about putting one child with or without two. You also said that classes can be completed with children without special problems or perhaps consequences. However, I have been alone for more than 30 years in education, and I know what one or two more children mean in a class where we have successfully integrated children with special needs in all these years, and we are also very successful in the advancement of children and talented children. Individualisation in such a class where so many different children with decisions and special needs are so difficult. Our wealth in our country is children, is youth, and we must devote as much effort as possible to improve their educational opportunities. We must enable everyone to develop their own potential. That's why I'm asking you: How do you plan to implement your pledges under the Coalition Treaty in the field of primary and higher education, with forecasts that you have fewer than 262 million less and 370 million less than the 2012 budget adopted in the state education budget? How do you plan to achieve excellent results in the fact that you are interfering with the change in standards that make working conditions worse?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u107	Mr. Secretary, please give an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u108	Thank you so much for asking. In the days to come, we'll all have to do less. This well - respected congregation also suffers from a decline in funds if they did not take account of those severance payments. The government's downgrading too. We will all have to do more with less, even in education, even in higher education, even in preschool education. I previously responded to my colleague Jeraeva and compared our standards with those in force in the developed world that are in the OECD countries, which are richer than we can afford, and we find everywhere that these norms are very, very rich in Slovenia. What we come up with is the proposal that we raise these standards very little. It's about an hour more in front of the teacher's board in class, it's one more student in the group, whether it's in kindergarten or in high school. After many of the studies that are available to us, I have also told you this earlier, whether it is the OECD as a foreign organisation or the Court of Auditors as a Slovenian organisation, it does not see an acute link between the size of the groups and the results achieved by children on international tests. Of course, there are many other parameters that we need to influence or do something to make our school exit better, so that the results of our school system are better. What appears to be one of the parameters affecting the quality of education is the reputation of a teacher. Yeah, I agree. Part of that reputation is what he's paid for and what kind of car he comes in. But you'll agree with me that it's not all that it's not the only thing that gives him the reputation. One of the things that give the teacher a reputation is his independence, his autonomy, his ability to learn, his teaching, his children's work on things that he thinks are important to him, which he would like to say. That is exactly what we are doing or have been shown through the discussion we are having in these changes in our dialogue with teachers. We will go in the direction of softening the stiffness of learning programs, study programs and so on to give the teacher this freedom. You must know the statistics where Slovenian schools are or where we are good, where we are not good, even geographically. In Slovenia there is a marked difference between the quality of the education system in towns and in rural areas or in parts of Slovenia. Some technological surpluses will arise as a result of these measures. They will be created mainly in large centres where education is not bad now. We are preparing mechanisms from the European Social Fund, where we will focus part of these superfluous teachers on participating in the pedagogical process in schools where students are getting worse. With regard to higher education, we will improve our quality in the way that we will send people to higher education who are also truly capable of making it difficult for teachers to deal with students who have not actually come there to study. I think that I will also improve the quality by making the programmes more general, now the funding system has forced many parts of the education system to create as many departments as possible, as many programmes as possible, as many directions as possible. The patterns of education that are needed today when details are made available on the Internet, while learning for the rest of our lives, is that some of the basics of general importance must be well learned. We do not need so many small and different studies to do this. You also asked about private education, whether we are opening up the possibility of even greater privatisation of education in Slovenia. What do you mean, even bigger? Slovenia has the lowest level of privatisation of education in Europe, and Romania, Lithuania and Latvia are around the same group. This is not a problem in Slovenia right now, it's not a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u109	Complementary response, please, Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u110	Thank you, Minister, but I haven't asked this about private education, but it's no big deal, of course, because you know what it's about. Look, the thing is, you said "with less." I agree, but how to motivate teachers, if we are now setting up regulations for him to be in school from seven to three, and to prescribe that he will then be creative. That's not working. Nor will the decrees be able to instruct teachers to do "more with less" and so on as you said. Of course, it can be done gradually, through dialogue, by working together, by talking and by believing in you. That means with the right attitude, not the way you're driving now. This is where the expertise needs to be included. You have written down that you will include, in the coalition contract, it is stated that you will include in the debate all by participating in both professional and other people and, of course, society in order to participate in these changes. Where did you turn it on? Nothing's turned on. Not to mention the interesting activities you will put in the framework of compulsory work. Do you know what an interesting activity is? An interesting activity is the interest of the teacher and the interest of the children. It means that when the teacher's interest is greater than the interest or that his teachers cannot satisfy him, we look and bring him to the school of an expert who can develop this creativity and this talent in children. And now we're going to separate the children, and we're going to be able to separate -- because private education is going to develop -- after what kind of social family children live in. You're shrinking. We know a family therapist, Juul, who said that the aggressiveness of children in schools is increasing. And we reduce the presence of social workers who have often replaced parents with children who have lived in poorer family conditions and who are the first [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u111	Your Honor, it is automatic. Mr. Minister, you will give an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u112	Thank you very much. No one spoke of teachers being in school from 7 to 15 hours, although many European countries also have these things. As far as the profession is concerned, I apologize, there is also a lot of expertise in the ministry, including doctors of science, educators, and andragogues who deal with these things, there is no need for all the professions, such as trade unions, OECD and the Ministry of Education. As far as social workers are concerned, we fully agree that they are necessary, but we are changing the legislation in the direction that the number of social workers is linked to the number of children, not to the number of classes. I guess you won't be saying it's necessary for a social worker to have a classroom. Finally, with regard to this elite dilemma. It would be interesting to look at the professional articles that will tell you that they are actually elites, so children, let's say mine from many of you who are highly educated, from rich environments, that these children are the ones who have the most of free public education. These are children who go through the entire secondary school, children of educated and wealthy parents go to a free university, and the whole system is also funded by workers in industry, economy, including farmers in undeveloped areas who participate very little in all of this. Private education for the time being, and as much as we have in Slovenia, forgive me, there is no social problem in the sense that those who can afford it will be educated there. In private schools, entry is open to all and possible. If we were to compare the social status of children at the Shentwi High School or at the Refugee High School, we would probably find that this fear, which you are spreading completely, is absolutely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u113	Thank you very much. There you go. Probably procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u114	Procedurally, yes. Dear Minister, I'm in good faith that you want to do a good school, I'm sure, but the public doesn't know that much. It was not enough to include those professions that we have included so far, that is, from the professional council, the teaching institute, etc., and people in the civil initiative that we want a school of child measure, etc. Therefore, it would be wise to discuss this, that people and teachers will have confidence in you, in all these changes, in all that you have just said, and in what we say. It is therefore appropriate to hold a debate here in the National Assembly, to present and present to people what awaits them and to make school friendly and quality, because we know that only such a school in children will be able to develop creativity, innovation and curiosity. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I therefore propose that a general debate be held in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u115	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Jožef Kavtičnik to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport to his question of the mission, the National Assembly will decide on Thursday, 19 April 2012, as part of the vote. We are moving on to the next question. Mr Jerko Čehovin will ask the Secretary-General of the Government, Dr Božo Predalič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. It is also a nice greeting to the competent ministers and to the Secretary-General of the Government, whom I ask as follows. In previous years, the re-systematisation of national celebrations reduced the number of these annually from 10 to 6 to 7. In this way, every year they would have a cultural festival with the award of Prešern prizes, celebrating a day of rebellion against the invader, a day of statehood, a day of reform and a day of independence and unity. As part of the austerity measures, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided at one of the meetings that only two national celebrations would be held for savings until the end of the year, namely the celebration of Statehood and the celebration of Independence and Unity Day. This way, the state will not participate in the celebration of the Day of Resistance against the occupying and the Day of Reform. As part of the national regional co-productions, every five years at national level we mark the holiday of the return of Primorska to the homeland, the day of Rudolph Maister and the holiday of the merger of the Premuri Slovenes with the native nation. It is true, however, that in the years when the celebrations do not come into line, the Coordinating Committee for State Celebrations can assist organisers in these celebrations with advice, lists of invited speakers, coordination of desirable speakers and similar assistance. As this is not supposed to apply to both of these state celebrations, I ask you, Mr. Dialic: Can we count on the professional assistance of the Coordinating Committee for State Celebrations and the State Celebration Service at the event? And since the Government's conclusion does not explicitly show: Will the celebration of the return of the sea be marked this year in the context of the national regional co-production, which is September 15th to the homeland, as envisaged in the systematisation of national celebrations? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u117	Here's your answer, Dr. Speaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Thank you also for the question, honourable Member. It is probably not necessary to stress in particular the economic and financial situation of the country and the need to save on all levels, including celebrations and celebrations, and the Government has also adopted the conclusions you are asking about. Perhaps I would point out that, at the time of the adoption of the decision laying down the protocol rules, the Government has determined that in future administrative, technical, financial and organisational tasks for the work of the Coordinating Committee for State Celebrations will be provided by the General Secretariat of the Government and the Protocol of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So the State Celebration Service, which you mentioned earlier, is gone. This is also in the light of a better organisation, cheaper organisation of the operation of the country. However, as far as saving itself is concerned, I must point out that, despite the difficult economic situation, more than half a million euros has been foreseen for celebrations and celebrations alone this year. At a time when social rights are also being violated, we thought it appropriate that these funds be cut by half by the Government, so that only a few more 200 000 euros were allocated to the celebrations. Of course, with such a limited budget, we are virtually unable to perform all the celebrations organised last year, because the calendar has not yet been confirmed this year, the previous government has not yet confirmed it, so the government has now decided to organise only two national celebrations, namely the celebration of Statehood Day, and the celebration of Independence and Unity Day. We considered that these two celebrations, which most strongly mark Slovenian statehood and at the same time do not in any way promote any ideological views and debates. As we say, we've decided to cut the funds by half. The decision was taken due to financial constraints and there is no obstacle to other interested organisers organising celebrations, which also mark other holidays. I personally do not see any specific obstacles in helping to organise these national celebrations, of course, within the framework laid down in both the Government's decision and the other regulations. I hope that I have answered your question to a large extent with this, but if necessary, you will probably want a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u119	Here is a supplement to Mr Jerko Čehovin's answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u120	I expected such a response, although I repeat that there was no indication from the Government's decision that this year's celebration of the accession of Primorska, as a proper name, would not be. I just want to say the following. Primorski Slovenci and Istria have already held the first days of the Italian assembly of the Julian landscape on the basis of the truce between Antente and Austria-Ogreska, which is 3 November 1918, resisted the Italian occupation – we had two such resistances, the Careful Hill in Brkini and the Marezgan Rebellion – and throughout the period of Fascist occupation fought political and armed struggle for national liberation and integration with the mother nation, the first in occupied Europe. The struggle for the national liberation of the entire Slovenian people can only be considered in 1941-1945 against the occupation of Nazi Germany, Fascist Italy and Hungary, which was also a programme for the United Slovenia and its statehood. Our anti-fascist national liberation struggle, its origins and objectives were consistently established in 1941 in the adoption of the definition in the Atlantic Charter and in 1942 even more consistently in the United Nations Pact than in the obligations of the joint fight against the Nazi relationship. The fact is that without our allied contribution to this fight we would not be sitting at the Paris Peace Conference in 1947 on the side of the winners and without the liberated Primorska there would not be today's United Republic of Slovenia. And I hope to say we wouldn't be sitting here either.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u121	Dr. Speaker, please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Chehovin. Otherwise, I did not directly address the additional issue from your debate. Well, certainly, if you ask about celebrations, it is clear from the conclusion that there will be only two national celebrations, a celebration on the day of statehood and a celebration on the day of independence and unity. This is in the budget direction, and there is no obstacle to not having another state celebration. And I also personally see no obstacle to helping to organise other celebrations in these contexts.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u124	Yeah, I really need to make a procedural proposal. Look, don't think I'm petty, considering today we're talking about some fateful moment in these financial matters. But I hope it was even more fatal when the coastal nation fought to join the queen. This holiday was not abolished by this government for five years, it was abolished by the previous government, saying that it would be every five years. Last year, when she was 5 years old, Prekmurje celebrated this celebration. You can't afford this party for the docks this year. I must say that we will organise it, as we have organised it all these years, because all municipalities, except Kopra and Pivka, have signed a co-financing agreement. We will have this celebration, and I hope that you will participate in as many as possible, but I just have to say how Italy responds to these things. A few years ago, the Italians adopted an exodus holiday and a phoebe that was celebrated with a large pump. The seamen are very sensitive to these matters, I must say, because it is also known that some are being misused, that photographs are being falsified and even turned around so that the victims become executioners. In short, I think it would be good for the government to reconsider. On a purely symbolic level, it seems to me that this is wrong, and after all, I think that the celebration of the accession of Primorska does not share the Slovenian people, but Primorska has just established it. So I would suggest that you think about it again, if you don't, and we're going to do it the way I said, so we're going to throw a celebration where 10,000 people are going to be again.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u125	Is this a procedural proposal, Mr. Chehovin, for a broader debate? So, on the proposal by the Member of Parliament, Mr Jerk Čehovin to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Secretary-General of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide on Thursday, 19 April 2012, in the framework of the votes. The following question will be asked by Mr Franz Puksic to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology mag. Happy Zerjava.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues, ministers, Vice President! As in the previous mandate, I have kept an eye on the use of European funds and have pointed out the immobility and opportunities we have had. Clearly, there will be a lot of work to be done in this mandate as well. It would be good to hear from the Minister of Economy, who is also responsible for drawing on European funds, what and how it will address all those shortcomings that have occurred in the last three years. Slovenia was the end of the 2004-2008 mandate, i.e. the previous approximately the same government coalition as today was one of the most successful in drawing on European funds, as we have used more than 95% of the funds, and this is the maximum possible for the 2004-2006 period. Even after the start of the financial perspective 2007-2013, Slovenia continued, with a call for approximately €1.5 billion ahead of the parliamentary elections in 2008. From 2007 to now, only €1.3 billion has been absorbed from €4.8 billion. Let us remember all those perceptions between the ministry and the secretary of state, writing in Brussels and so on. Undoubtedly, the most depressing situation in the area of the environment and transport infrastructure development programme is 17.5%. The disaster situation is right on the railway infrastructure, as simply project documentation for the implementation of the Divača-Koper route is not ready. How's that going? That's why I'm asking you, Minister: What measures will you take to accelerate the absorption of European funds, which are practically the only development funds, the possibility of further economic development? What will you do to ensure that money from the operational programme for the development of environmental transport infrastructure is not lost? When will the sixth public call for the development of the regions for which projects will be earmarked?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u127	Answer, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u128	Thank you very much. As soon as the term of office took place, of course, we made a detailed analysis of the use of European funds and actually found that the situation was serious. In addition, we have also found that we were threatened with a temporary cessation of drawing due to some irregularities. Thank God we fixed it, so it didn't happen. The fact is, so far, it has been pumped and brought to Slovenia 1.3 billion, on average about 260 million per year. On average, EUR 700 million should be brought to Slovenia if we are to draw on the rest of the work. So, substantially more than has been done so far. Since, as you yourself have said, this is practically the only available development funds or the only potential for possible investments, especially in this construction segment, we have, of course again, as was the case in the 2004-2008 mandate, introduced regular weekly inter-ministerial coordination of ministers on this topic. It can no longer be left to some lower officials, but the matter needs to be taken seriously. A review of legislation, guidelines and regulations has been carried out. Changes will be proposed on this subject, all in the light of faster and more efficient use of resources. There are also spare scenarios for possible transfers from worse content to better pumping content, especially better economic and financial effects. The budget provides for an appropriate own contribution, with the provision of €800 million in this budget for the circus, a sum of its own participation and European work, and a special budget reserve of €100 million to ensure its own participation in the event of possible more efficient and faster drawing. As regards the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure, the fact is that there are the biggest problems here, which is the biggest backlog. Up to now, approximately 19% of all funds have been absorbed. And the brunt of these problems is, of course, in infrastructure, especially on the railway. In these days, decisions are being made whether these programmes will actually make transfers to programmes where absorption capacity is greater or not, so that we will have a precise response when the Commission visits in the coming days, including as regards the project from which the issues will be redeployed. However, we will certainly not be able to afford a change in operational programmes, because this simply takes too long and, of course, we would spend too much time in the dark for this purpose. As far as the sixth invitation to tender is concerned. The 6th call will be issued on 11 May. I would also point out that 122 annexes and contracts for municipalities totalling around 50 million were signed on Friday, and this is also based on the previous call for funds to co-finance investment projects of municipalities amounting to 43 million under the development aid law of Pomurje, i.e. this fourth call of 6.2 million for economic incentives in the region of Pomurje. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u129	Thank you. Complementary response, Mr. Pukšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u130	The results of the drawing are, after what the minister has just said, the same as I have already predicted or are catastrophic in the question. The results are catastrophic, despite the fact that I have warned about this for three years almost every month. It is true, however, that there has been quite a change in ministers there, in regional development and, of course, this has not been the result of better drawing, but the additional disputes that have been between the Ministry of Local Self-Government and the Minister for European Affairs of Gaspari have brought this pumping to such a catastrophic disadvantage. You must make a difference, Minister, or we must at least sign contracts in Slovenia by the end of next year, that is until the end of 2013. The pumping rule is N + 2, which means by 2015 we can get the money from the European cash register into our cash register, but of course everything else must be done first. I want to know: Have you also discussed in the Government any of the responsibilities of individual ministers and former Prime Minister, who, apparently to the National Assembly, did not give us accurate information or mislead us?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u131	Answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u132	Look, as Minister myself, I am primarily focused on the future, and for me, the key is to move things around, to move them from the point where they are. It should be borne in mind that even the Ministry of the Economy did not have a minister for some time, even at the Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, as you yourself have determined, but there was no minister and they were changing. In short, I hope that now that the situation has finally stabilised, both on the one hand and on the other, we will establish the conditions for us to start seriously pumping or to speed up this case that has stalled – this is evident from all the graphs that we are following. I'm afraid I don't have them here today. And this is a crucial moment for me. I don't mean to deal with the past and the stories that are behind us. There's certainly no solution there. The solutions are primarily ahead of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The question will be raised by Mrs Tamara Vont, Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The Minister of Education, Science, Culture and everything else Dr. Žiga Turk, of all ministries, are so-called a large united ministry or a "super ministry" – I must say that I will not demand copyright for this term because I would demand them from someone who is already impoverished, and these are mainly media – it is said, within this great ministry, a combined cut of 13% has occurred. Of course, it pains me most that there were 14% of programmes in culture. And you've done the most in those areas that somehow don't bring added value or capital, material thought. If that is true, it is worth all the condemnation, but, Minister, I am sure that this is not the case, but that it is mainly that you have not managed to get through the matter of this great ministry by yourself, and that you may not have received the right information from your fellow workers. But I'm asking you, given what we've heard about your performance as a minister, in your speech, which I've listened to very carefully, and you've remembered something: How will you, as a competent minister, meet the objectives set out in your coalition contract to create a favourable environment for cultural growth and to strengthen Slovenian identity if, on the basis of austerity measures for cultural programmes, you reduce funds by 14% and for cultural heritage by 20%, by linking the budget reserve at the Ministry of Finance to investments and European funds? In fact, when you brought the ministries together, you claimed that because of the lower costs of red tape, you would give more money to create or to programs. Now it's clear you're squandering these funds. Saving measures in this area should, in my view, be more selective so that you do not cause harmful consequences in the long term. In fact, I am convinced that you are aware that culture is a constitutional element of every nation, but perhaps not as profitable as you would like in these times of crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u135	Mr. Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u136	Thank you very much, even for that question. Indeed, it is a large ministry with a large budget, still with a large budget. This ministry accounted for around 20% of the previous budget, including slightly less than 20% of the current budget. So, at 1/5 of the budget is made for about 1/4 of the savings. That's a little above average. One reason for this is the fact that the debt service item that Slovenia pays for the money it has already borrowed has increased considerably. We have no influence on this, and this has been influenced by all previous governments. The second reason is that part of the funding for co-financing of European projects, both domestic and, of course, European funds, is concentrated at the Ministry of Finance in order to better draw, that we do not have 10 different lists and drawers per ministry separately, but that we have some of these funds in one place. How, then, did culture take it to education, science and so on within this ministry? We have stuck to some of the same principles, the same principles as in the entire state administration. There were virtually no vertical measures in the area of culture, except for a small savings in the administration of the Film Centre and the Public Book Agency. Otherwise, the effects of horizontal measures, which everywhere, through all public institutions, should be a culture, whether it be a science, across all agencies, should be scientific, cultural, agricultural and other agencies, squander resources for their operation. As has been said many times by my colleagues, there is no particular joy and pleasure in the government to take measures that weaken the material basis of the resources we care about. We do this with great respect, with great caution, with great sensitivity, with great desire to share these burdens fairly. This budget, this rebalancing comes to Parliament. You, ladies and gentlemen, here you have a chance to say, go more to this item, take this item, maybe the government has overlooked some of the possibilities we have. I would be very happy if you would come with an amendment to improve the situation and put preschool education first and science second. And as I say, I'll be glad to make such proposals. As to how we worked, however, there are some numbers that speak in the coming thesis that we have tried as much as possible to do for programs, for content. For example, the item for artistic programmes in public institutions weighs 51 million, the index here is 99.54% according to the 2012 budget in force. Public institutions operating in the area of cultural heritage 34 million 400, index 99.22 percent. In short, saving didn't go everywhere according to the same index, but for some things we tried to ensure, to concentrate resources so that the programs would be least affected. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u137	Complementary response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u138	I understand you're not pleased to cut these funds, although sometimes I feel like one of your secretaries of state is. For example, Dr. Rončevič denotes what we are proposing here today, or talking about certain cuts or possible improvements, so that perhaps together we can find another point where we can get something, he marks as "a cheerful paradise". I mean, that seems very insulting to me. In fact, when you say we have a chance to propose, yes, we will propose amendments, but we all know exactly what their fate will be. Because it doesn't matter whether the amendments are good or really good, but it does matter which side they come from. And that's why I think what you just said is, in fact, I don't know if you meant it honestly or not, but it's kind of cynicism to me. We didn't even see this marriage, we didn't get it on the bench, the unions didn't see it. I don't understand. I don't understand. I don't understand. Aren't we, colleagues? Right now, we can bet what the result will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u139	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u140	Dr. Roncevic is Director of the Directorate for Higher Education and Science, not Secretary of State. In what context did he use the words "happy paradise," I don't know, I don't know. Even if he has to defend himself, he'll defend himself. Surely, though, he too has worked hard to find a balance between where to save and where not to save. I meant it with a proposal and an appeal. They are not only opposition Members in this House, they are also coalition Members. As the government has said many times, we understand that coordination is both about the balance of the budget, which I believe you have, because it operates on numbers, as on the intervention law, which is really still preparing or correcting the writing, the amendments on both are possible until the moment you vote here.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin will ask the Minister of Infrastructure and Space Zvonku Černač a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u142	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. My colleagues and my colleagues are warmly greeted, warmly greeted by the well-respected Minister! If, in Ljubljana and its vicinity, it seems entirely self-evident to us that we have access to electricity, there are certain ends of Slovenia where this accessibility is not so self-evident. One such area is certainly White Krajina. When our group visited the White landscape, we were informed by a number of companies that they already have almost or guaranteed jobs, but they simply cannot do so because there is not enough electricity in the White Land. We thought it was almost impossible in the 21st century, but actually this is happening. And the essential thing and I will say a very good counter-crisis measure for the White Country would be to get the second phase of the Črnomelj-Hand village cable line as soon as possible. I'm interested in the minister: Are you familiar with this issue and when can the Belokrans expect this cable?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u143	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Thank you again very much for the question and once again a nice greeting. It must also be one of the very important issues because significant funds have been allocated in the past and will be allocated in the future to the development of the distribution network. Last year, in 2011, almost 100 million Euros were allocated to this area, yet individual areas, as mentioned in the Member's question of respectable colleague Tonin, are still not enough areas where electricity is not sufficient because networks are too weak. In order to develop these networks, a system operator of the SODO distribution network, belonging to a dedicated source, is legally responsible for the development of these networks, a network governed by the Public Energy Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. The owner of distribution networks and contract contractor for SODO are almost exclusively distribution companies: Elektro Celje, Elektro Maribor, Elektro Primorska, Elektro Gorenjska and Elektro Ljubljana. Investments in these networks are not directly related to the budget or to budgetary resources, but investments are made directly by these companies and not by the State. The area of the White Landscape lies in an area covered by Elektro Ljubljana. In addition, there are a number of areas where economic needs are recorded where portability does not provide the needs currently required by the economy. It is the areas of Domžal, Kamnika, Ljubljana Zalog, Ivančne Gorica. Currently, one of the major projects in this area is RTP Ločna and a power supply of 110 kilovolts station Bršljin-Gotna Vas, which is being built because Krka will need an additional 10 megawatts of power for the factory that is already being built by mid-2014. In particular, with regard to the cable line that was exposed, the first phase, Hand village to the spindle zone The rotor is placed entirely, under tension it is expected to reach the middle of May this year, which will allow for an additional megawatt of energy and start or cover the first economic needs during this period. The second phase, the cable line from RTP Črnomlja to the Hand village, is in the design phase. Service contracts are also acquired where a particular problem is the disagreement of the landowners on which the route will be carried out. The investment value in this case is around EUR 600,000. There is also a likelihood that there will be a need to change the route because not all consent will be obtained. There is certainly a project that is running here, and we expect it to be completed in the optimal time.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Ficko will ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u146	Have a nice hello to you all. Dear Minister, Mr. Bogovich! With 1. 1. A new Food Safety Authority will be set up in 2013 to bring together the Veterinary Administration, the Phytosanitary Authority, the Directorate for Safe Food and part of the Agricultural Food Inspectorate. According to the experts, such changes are negative as they do not allow the independence of the Food Safety Authority, which has a negative impact on the objectivity of its work. In doing so, the professional public also points out that the health inspectorate will not be included in the said Food Safety Authority. The proposed placement of the Food Safety Administration within the Ministry of Agriculture raises serious doubts about the independence and objectivity of its work. Dear Minister: In what way do you intend to provide the Slovenian consumer with the safety of the food he buys? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u147	Mr. Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u148	Nice hello, again. Thank you for this question, which I think is right for us to talk about in Parliament as well. Since the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Community and to this day, they have control over and care for food safety in accordance with European legislation: the Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the Health Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, the Phytosanitary Administration, the Directorate for Safe Food and part of the Agricultural Inspectorate. All of them are also acting today as bodies within the Ministry, except for the Directorate for Food Safety, which is one of the Ministry's Directorates and thus is now guaranteed their independence and independence. The success, comparability and independence of all these institutions so far have verified more than 30 audits of the European Commission Food and Veterinary Office. This is one of those areas that is very much reviewed and we can say with pleasure that Slovenia has been placed on the very top of the European countries, one of the countries that has the least recommendations or identified irregularities. Austria and Luxembourg alone are countries that have even fewer recommendations from this Eminent Office of the European Commission, which is the supervisory body responsible for food safety within the European Commission, so I think we can safely say that we have an effective system in Slovenia, which has also been checked many times by both supervisory functions and in real life, we have seen many times that it is able to match the challenges that lie ahead of this area, where food as a living thing is always exposed. Within the framework of the coalition agreement and also within the framework of decisions within the Ministry, the studies have been from the previous mandate, and it has been a long time before the speech was made that it would be wise to take a rational approach to reorganising this area of safe food so that these institutions, which I have already mentioned, would not be one of the bodies in the composition, the Veterinary Administration, the Phytosanitary Administration, the Directorate for Food Safety, part of the agricultural inspectorate dealing with this, but also the health department. The basic idea is to set up a Directorate of Food Safety following the example of many countries. The main purpose is to bring these institutions, which are now working on safe food in various bodies, together into a single institution that will monitor food in this food chain from villas to forks, as we like to say. In addition to the areas of food production, processing and distribution, including food labelling, the areas of feed, animal health, animal protection, veterinary medicinal products, plant health and other areas such as plant protection products and similar residues of these plant protection products in food, feed, food and plant seeds and reproductive material are included. As I have already said, a group led by the leaders of all these bodies, together with representatives of the Agriculture Directorate and the General Secretariat, was set up within the Ministry on the basis of also a statement in the coalition agreement and a commitment. And just as you have found that this independence is needed, independence is guaranteed in the future, as it is today guaranteed to all those bodies that are constituent bodies, similar to the inspector acting independently, the Veterinary Administration is already operating independently and in the future, if this is to be a joint body, so is predicted and there will be no other way. The reflections also go in this direction, as you mentioned, as well as the part covering the area of safe food within the Ministry of Health, in particular part of the Health Inspectorate, whether it would be wise to merge it into this joint body. We have already discussed this with our fellow minister at the last meeting of the Government, and it is also agreed that the expert group of the two ministries meet and determine the usefulness and expertise of this work. I assure you that this is done by highly competent people, but it is true that when you put on a bunch of different areas, there are different heads of individual organs, there are different views. At each of the two, three coordination meetings, we have now been unified, Friday was the last meeting, legislation has been prepared, and it is stipulated that by the end of May, the entire legislative framework going to Parliament will be drawn up, so that by 1. 1. 2013 this institute has already begun to operate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Do you have a follow-up? No, no, no. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič will ask the Minister of Infrastructure and Space Mr Zvonk Černač a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Minister Zvonko Černač, my question is this: In view of the crisis in which we are in, I find that one of the key actors in creating the economic start-up of the country with its investments must be. On the other hand, we note that Slovenia has been missing national importance or national interest in certain projects for a number of years. Here I am thinking mainly of the second track of Divača-Koper, the third pier in Luka Koper and because I come from the coast, as far as investment in roads is concerned, including the fast road Jagodje-Lucija and the fast road Šmarje-Dragonja, and I could also list it, as similar projects are planned throughout the country have either stopped or are being saved too slowly. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: When can we expect the adoption of State spatial plans that will actually place these projects in space and when can we expect the actual start of works on these projects? The essence of this issue is a timetable if the government even has one. I would also like to add to my question: As Minister responsible for infrastructure and space, will you be able to ensure that the so-called 10th Corridor does not bypass Slovenia due to delays in the implementation of key transport infrastructure projects? And the well-respected Mr. Minister: Where do you think the reasons for the overcrowding of infrastructure facilities are? Slovenia represents only a fraction of Europe's transport space and traffic flows and, if I wait, wait and wait, we may have a European flow and what brings development to our small country, compared to all other countries in Europe and the world, bypass. That's why I'm asking you nicely for an answer, if only specifically possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u151	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for asking. Here I share my view with you that in the past we may not have been most optimal in the allocation of our expertise, financial resources and other resources in putting individual projects into space. We were somewhere too fast, too slow. We are now facing a rather absurd situation where, in this financial perspective that is due to expire at the end of 2013, some 450 million Euros of OPER-OPI resources should be spent on rail infrastructure, but we do not have enough operational projects to spend these resources. We are faced with the problem that in a relatively short period of time some of these funds must be diverted to other areas, not to any of them, because we cannot easily move them to part of the road infrastructure, where the operationality of the implementation of projects could be rapid, optimal so that we can make use of these funds in this financial perspective. We are also giving a poor signal in some way, because we will need spending on the development of rail infrastructure in the period 2014-2020. Nevertheless, the ongoing projects will be accelerated, those that are operational, for the part where they cannot be used up, the funds will also be used for other necessary purposes, so that the funds in this perspective are fully exhausted. It is very important that we have before us a longer timetable for the development of transport infrastructure, including a rough financial valuation, to deal with it in some way and to valorize it every few years. To see where we are and see where we are retreating, and then to that end we will carry out appropriate activities so that we do not get back into the situation as we are today. As a result, we plan this timeline by 2020, 2030 and 2050. This is not least due to the preparation for the next financial perspective, but especially to the needs that we have in the development of individual parts of transport infrastructure. Regarding the individual projects you mentioned, the second track or new line of Divac-Koper, third pier, the fast road Jagodje-Lucija. Here are the state spatial plans already adopted, some very old. For example, for the second track, it was adopted in 2005 and now we have an amendment to this VAT, which does not interfere with the placement procedures. For the third pier it was adopted in 2011, for the fast road Jagodje-Lucia in 2008 and we still have a state spatial plan for the fast road Dragoja-Koper, which also began to be prepared in 2005 and we are now just before the public opening. Relatively long timelines, as you can see, are respected fellow Member who is not good. According to my assessment, a State spatial plan for placing into the space of an infrastructure story of State importance should have a time-table of maximum two years from the moment the initiative begins, and until the moment that the procedure is placed in the space, and we will aim to do so, irrespective of the environmental and all other issues that need to be respected, taken into account and resolved in parallel with the placement of a particular project into space. This means that if we run into some area with questions and objections concerning environmental problems, agricultural land, any regimes that we cannot overcome, we need to find another alternative solution immediately. There are always alternative solutions, but it is unacceptable that around one solution, which is estimated not to be adopted, we turn three, four or even five years or more. This initiative of yours is welcome and will be taken into account in our further work. I myself will make sure that this timetable will be in the National Assembly as soon as possible, first on the committee responsible and then at the plenary session. In this context, there will also be a clear timetable for individual transport and energy projects. As far as corridors 10 and 5 are concerned, there's no fear here. The 10th and 5th amendments we have proposed are in both the core and the comprehensive pan-European network. It is expected to be completed by 2030, comprehensively by 2050. It's up to us whether we do these things or not. These projects will be re-valorized somewhere by 2023. And not only because we have made this commitment, but especially because we need it, we must fulfill this task. What is the reason for being too slow? There's a lot of reasons. On the one hand, the reason is that decisions are not made when they should be made. On the other hand, there are procedures that may not be most optimal and need to be amended.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u153	Thank you. Complementary reply Mr Gaspar Misic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General. Above all, I must point out that I am pleased with your optimism that in this financial perspective we will be able to draw on our dedicated European resources. I firmly believe that you will succeed, and I am holding your figs in this direction. It's about the development of our country. I have not been able to answer the specific question of what you believe is the key reason for the overcrowding in infrastructure projects. In particular, in the case of the Jagodje-Lucia Fast Road project, for which the VAT has already been accepted, land purchase and compensation for a negligible amount have been stopped, compared to the importance of this project for the development of the country and also of the coast, where the economic sector is a key tourism sector and where, in the tourist season, the literal project stops and we are cut off from the world in the event of any traffic accident in Valeti or in Strunjan, which you are probably also familiar with as a member of the Postojna District, since you have probably visited our coast several times in the summer. I would like to add, if I may, the sad conclusion is that such important infrastructure projects have been placed in space for decades. It is even sadder to know that it is the responsibility of government officials who are never responsible for anything. I feel that some are even convinced that they own the job or the functions they perform, at least after the conduct of the judge. Dear Minister, you have a chance to fix this. I propose to you, Minister, that you establish internal supervision of the work and efficiency of state officials responsible for the management, preparation, coordination and implementation of individual infrastructure projects. It's imperative if we want something to "war" us in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The additional question was what was the reason for the overcrowding in space. In one part, I answered that question. In the second part, I can say that, as regards a particular case, the speedy road of Jagodje-Lucia holds what was said by the honourable Member. Sometime since March 2011, these purchases are no longer carried out on this route. The reason given by Dars is a lack of funds. The new Dars Act, which was adopted in 2010, provides that all new projects under the additional motorway programme must be provided from the state budget. There were no funds in the last year. There'll be fewer in this year. On the other hand, this same Darsus was granted a free building entitlement or an unpaid building right on all motorway networks located on state land where motorways take place in 2010. By amending the law that we have placed within the framework of this intervention law, we intend to amend it in such a way that this building right is remunerated. We intend to ensure that these funds are earmarked and can be used exclusively for land purchases for the complementary motorway programme, for state spatial plans, for the complementary motorway programme, for project documentation and so on. This will ease the blockade that we are now witnessing and, on the other hand, accelerate the activities that are actually necessary here in this particular case. If the time-table for Markovac is fulfilled, then we will have this tunnel open in the second year of autumn, and on the other hand, the closure if the work on this route Jagodje-Lucija continues immediately. That is how we are aware of the seriousness of these situations. It would also be good to be aware of those who were once authorized to speed up these procedures. As for the responsibility of individuals for the procedures that are under way, I must say that I myself agree with the ideas that a person with a name and surname must be specifically responsible for each project. Those in charge of a specific project must have the power, on the one hand, to lead the project in a sovereign manner, to carry out everything necessary to carry out all activities within the framework of the project if it does not take on personal responsibility for the failure to carry out the activities set out in this project. We have already introduced such a principle in one part at the Ministry and we intend to extend it to all projects currently running on the entire infrastructure network. Personally, I think that this is the only right way and the right way to do what we have committed ourselves to do on the one hand, and on the other hand that people, officials, employees who master the work that they do well will have some satisfaction from this title at the end. It's probably not a pleasure working on a project, and then there's no results from it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaspar Music, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I must admit that I am pleased with your answers, but given that this issue is very important both for the opposition and for the coalition, I propose that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, this issue be discussed. Otherwise, you yourself have found that a timetable will have to be drawn up, which was the essence of my question. If we don't stick to each other and if we don't have deadlines, then I don't know where we're going. We really have to answer to the Slovenian public that we will do it and when we will do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u159	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Gaspar Gaspard Mišić to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister for Infrastructure and Space to his question of the mission, the State Assembly will decide on Thursday, 19 April 2012, in the framework of the vote. We are moving on to the next question. Dr László Göncz will ask the Minister for Infrastructure and Space Mr Zvonku Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, Minister Chernač! I'm opening up a problem that's been opened many times in the National Assembly, and there's been no big success, unfortunately. From the point of view of accessibility to the Internet and other services related to quality telecommunications infrastructure, we still have a very uneven situation in Slovenia between different regions. In the so-called deficit areas, which we also call white foxes, the standard of living is much worse because of this, which probably does not have to be interpreted in particular today. If we look only at Pomurje, for example, in the municipalities of Lendava and Dobrovnik, and even more in Goričke, especially in the national mixed area, there is a wide-ranging lack of access to broadband, which has an extremely negative impact on the economic and demographic situation of the province. As there is a great interest in the area where these so-called white foxes, both in Pomour and elsewhere in Slovenia, in all end-users accessing the broadband network of electronic communications and, unfortunately, in previous mandates in this area, much less than expected, I am interested in: In view of the difficult economic and financial circumstances, what will the Government or your ministry do to accelerate the construction of the telecommunications infrastructure and to upgrade or expand the network? I also ask you: In a relatively short time, what can be done to improve the situation in this I think is undoubtedly a priority area? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u161	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u162	Thank you very much to the honourable Member for this question as well. Thus, it can certainly be agreed that access to the world’s web today is one of the most basic goods and preconditions for life and operation in this century. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already been aware of the situations and problems of access to broadband connections in the past, especially in rural areas in Slovenia. For this reason, in order to co-finance eligible costs for the construction of open broadband networks of electronic communications in local communities in areas where broadband connections are not available and where there is no market interest in the construction of the network, two European Regional Development Fund public tenders of EUR 82 million were published in 2007 and 2010. 12 operations under this heading have already been completed and the remaining five are in progress. In 2012, this year, €11 million will be earmarked for the construction of an open broadband network. The entire project covers the area of 43 municipalities, with a total coverage of approximately 30,000 households on so-called white leaves. As far as Pomur is concerned, some effort has been made in the past, for example in Dobrovnik municipality since 2004 an e-was pilot project has been carried out. It was carried out by the Ministry of Electronic Communications at the time. In addition, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment or the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development has distributed EUR 4 million and EUR 200 000 of European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development funds for investments in the rural broadband network. For this purpose, the funds were acquired by the municipalities of Gornja Radgona, Radenci, Odranci and Črenšovci. In addition to this, a project which has been particularly significant and also well-adopted in the Pmurje area, namely a project to set up public e-points with wireless access, which took place between 2006 and 2009. The honourable Member is certainly aware of this because in the past – I think in December 2009 – he has already raised this issue in the question of the Member. On the basis of this project, 43 public e-points were established at the total level of the project 491 000 800 euro. All of the public access points thus established enable connectivity with the global network through wireless communications and through user sites in fixed locations, which was extremely positive for end-users in the interim period when the European Regional Development Fund has not yet started to draw on funds. However, it must be said that, on the basis of the applications received so far, particularly this last call from 2010, there has been a greater interest in the construction of broadband networks than has been available. The whole areas covered by this call have fallen out, so that at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space in the light of what I said earlier, we have also proposed appropriate redeployments in the light of the reallocation of funds. The problem we have in this area is, of course, that we cannot redistribute the OPPER-OPI into this fund. It doesn't work directly. Changes are needed that take time. No matter what, I estimate that we will succeed in this area. We are running out of about €70 million of European funds so that the projects already so-called "ready to go" can be implemented because they are ready because they have all the necessary conditions and can begin to be implemented tomorrow in order to achieve with appropriate reallocations the opportunity to achieve what we have finally committed to in the framework of the coalition commitment, and this is one of the priorities in the period 2012-2015; this is accessibility to the open broadband network in our entire country.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Completing the answer? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Minister, for the correct answer. All I would add is that in the previous term, because you are not clearly on the table, a very important matter has fallen apart when a number of congregations within the municipality of Moravske Toplice or the municipality of Moravske Toplice have joined together and a great step has been taken in Pomurje. Unfortunately, there were some systemic problems here, at least that was the answer at the time. With regard to your response – talk about changes: Do you believe that legal changes are also needed to improve the system or model? If necessary, does this mean a priority within your ministry or government in this area?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u166	Thank you, too, for this additional question. I don't think there will be any need for legal change, but spending rights between individual programmes will have to be changed. This project, which you are mentioning, is one of those which I have talked about being declared under the 2010 invitation to tender – even the Court has fallen out of this tender and a number of other areas, one part of Koroška and so on. This is a major potential of the projects that are also important, including within the framework of the priorities that we are aware of both at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and at the level of the Government. This is why once again: the activities that we are carrying out in these days, literally in these days, are going in this direction, so that where we find it realistic that not all available resources will be used, we can transfer these resources to projects that are ready and can be implemented in this financial perspective, wherever possible. One of the most prepared projects that meet all the conditions is certainly the construction of broadband networks in areas of so-called white foxes, where not only documentation already exists, but the entire ready-made implementation scheme. I will, of course, do everything possible to bring about this appropriate redeployment and the possibility of implementing these projects.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mag. Leila Hercegovac will ask the Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Nicely greeted ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The question for a colleague of the Minister of Health is: Will children continue to be examined by pediatricians in Slovenia, or how will you solve the problem of a shortage of pediatricians in an insufficient network at the primary level? Mr Minister, the question is serious because the government's announced austerity measures will have a major impact on children and families. Women's health has an impact on children's health and consequently on society's health. The organisation of the health system in the country is a matter of policy, but it does not always listen to the arguments of the profession. At the primary level in Slovenia currently works 230 paediatrics, they would need 320. So there is a deficit of 90 paediatrics, in the next three to five years we expect a deficit of between 150 and 180 paediatrics. The case is even worse, 72% of paediatric patients are over 50 years of age or, in other words, 28% are under 50 years of age. Paediatric specialisation programmes are reduced, we know, and the Institute for Health Protection also draws attention to the potential negative health effects of austerity measures, especially in children and young people. Youth problems are getting worse. Many colleagues are subject to heavy burdens and say they can no longer. Please respond, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u169	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u170	Thank you, too, for that question. I believe that you do not expect me to comment on how our actions will have a full impact on the disease of children, because I think that the assessment here is significantly exaggerated and that the measures are not directed in this direction. I'll focus more on the question of the number of pediatricians. We know that pediatricians work at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels and that the primary level is one that provides some broad accessibility for these children and adolescents; it is said to be geographically accessible without any previous obstacles in terms of posting directions, such as those and others. If we want to know what point we are at today with regard to these pediatricians at the primary level, I need to tell you some data; I am talking about the June 2011 data. If I count pediatricians at the primary level, it's saying those who have defined the principality of these children are 216 and on average there's a thousand 167 per pediatrician. What does that mean? The Resolution on the National Health Plan 2008-2013 was adopted and this resolution prescribes principality. The figures in this resolution are such that it is appropriate to head this resolution by looking at children from 0 to 19 years of age, a thousand 400. If we look only younger, it's lower if we look at the population from 6 to 19 years old, I think, a thousand 700. If I go back to the numbers, according to the representation of pediatricians by geographical legions at the primary level, there are only Gorica and Ravna, where these numbers are thousands of 690 and a thousand 509 compared to the estimated headship of a thousand 400. So these are the only two regions, of course the border region is also the coast, Koper, where there is a thousand 400 and something over, a thousand 430, but it is still close to this criterion. These data do not seem to me to be of such concern, except in these two regions. On the other hand, we have a specialization in the circulation of 128 specialists in the field of pediatrics, and this year 39 new cities have been awarded. I don't have any data here on how much they are intended for the secondary level and how much they are primary, but the fact is that the number is increasing significantly. Maybe another piece of information is needed if I'm talking about a secondary level. In the last 30 years, the number of hospitalisations has practically halved, with one higher rate of hospitalisation in Slovenia than in the European Community. So if I look at it as a whole, I can answer and hope to say that the children will continue to be treated by pediatricians. However, it makes sense to actually refer a few more calls to those areas where, given the information I have provided, there is also a shortage of pediatricians. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u171	Here you go, mag. He's a duke, supplemental.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u172	The pediatrician's colleagues are worried about why the planning is so bad. I need to fix you that there are 54 specialists, of which there are only 24 for the primary level. You have, Mr. Secretary, numbers, but these numbers are on paper, in practice there's something else. The pediatrician must not reject any child in his field and must take everything and the principals are written on the region and not on the number of inhabitants, so that these data do not hold. I believe you don't know enough about primary work either, because at the end of my working century, I went to politics, and you in the middle part, we're very different here. I very much ask that the primary network or the primary level network, where family doctors are also very lacking, be dealt with in a short time because they are serious problems. We expect greater disease in view of the crisis and financial difficulties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u173	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u174	Well, there's probably quite a difference between us, but it's okay, I guess. I believe I have the right data, including the number of pediatricians. As I mentioned, I don't have a number based on the secondary and primary levels. The problem that is happening, not only in pediatricians, but also in other doctors at the primary level, is that some are good and are very burdensome and some are hard to reach. We're really talking about average numbers here, because we probably wouldn't have come anywhere if we named the pediatrician, who's more and who's less burdened. The fact is that, given the information I have given, once again, there are only two areas in Slovenia that are actually with the number of pediatricians, if I may say, fed – and the coast is at the border. These are information published, official and valid, regardless of the interpretation that one can afford. I believe, once again, that with the appropriate call for specialisation, we will also be able to find the starting points for these areas to be adequately covered.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mrs Mateja Pučnik will raise the question to the Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u176	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Members, Members, Government representatives, distinguished Minister, Dr. Vinko Gorenak! A lot of dust was raised during the reorganisation of the government, especially in the merger of ministries and especially within your internal ministry. So far, things have settled, and as far as I'm aware, you've already reorganised your ministry at the summit itself. You have brought together the Directorates for Administrative Home Affairs and Migration, you have newly established the Directorate of Prosecutors, and I am sure that you are already working with full steam in all these areas. Of course, the reorganisation of the General Police Administration, police administrations and police administrations is also expected below. Police stations, as you have already predicted. If I understand correctly, the fundamental problem is precisely in the low number of police posts at local level and, on the other hand, too many employees in police administrations, and at the level of the General Police Administration. I also see the problem with the fact that the police have a large number of college-educated people who are employed in lower-value jobs. Since we have a great deal of information from all sides, especially misinformation, which is why many are quite concerned, Mr. Minister, I ask you: How will you handle this reorganization of police administrations or police stations? What will happen to those employees who are at risk of losing their jobs, or will people lose their jobs, or am I interested in what effects of reorganisation do you personally expect? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u177	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u178	Thank you so much for asking. I'm sort of separating this matter into two parts. The first was the emergency reorganisation that was the result of the Government Act, you were talking about the merger of Directorates, etc., and the second was the reorganisation that is now taking place following the decision of the Government on the reorganisation. I have to say, when I came to the office myself, the first day in my office somehow surprised me that there are 16 people in this office with the highest titles, including, you know, who are 28 years old and have the name of a secretary. Where'd that come from?Oh, my We know that this term usually occurs at age 40 or later. The cabinet was completely reorganized, there are two people left, some of them escaped from my arrival, some later today, we are operating in a cabinet with seven or eight people, including the lowest salaries of 800 euros. As far as the rest of the reorganisation is concerned, the most important reorganisation for me is the police. However, by 1 April, the establishment of the Directorate of Public Prosecutions was also a very important issue. Even though there have been some problems, I must say that we have managed to set up this Directorate. There are 12 formalised posts in the Directorate and 8 public staff working there with the director of the Director’s duties. Although there have been a number of questions in public about how the police will be in charge of the prosecution, etc., I am pleased to tell you that in this Directorate they work exclusively and only those people who have worked previously at the Ministry of Justice and have mostly dealt with the issue of the prosecution. So this establishment went perfectly normal, without complications and without unnecessary political fuss in the media. As far as police reorganisation is concerned, this is one of the more important projects for me. Slovenian police are now counting slightly less than 9,000 employees, and its main problem has been the shortage of police officers at the local level for decades. We have police stations that are occupied 60-, 65-, 70-percent, but of course we have a summit, as I would call it – this peak is non-operational services on police administrations and on the General Police Administration. I don't count criminal police or the National Investigation Office here, so these parts have a significant number of people. That is why we are taking the reorganisation in this direction so that we are expected to – but please do not hold me for any number later, there may be more, something less – about 150 jobs will be cut off. These are the jobs occupied by public officials today, and these jobs will be systemised in operational services – this means mainly in the criminal police, this also means in police stations, this means in the criminal services of police administrations – and we have offered all these public officials the opportunity to go to such jobs. Indeed, this will mean strengthening that police operation, which we have also committed ourselves to in the coalition agreement. I am counting on these processes to be completed by the end of June somehow, so that we can figure out how much we have increased, if I say so, the operational part. At the same time, it must be made clear that there are relatively large numbers of pensioners within these civil servants. Like all other ministries, I don't think this ministry and the police have any exceptions. If you get to a relatively high and well - paid job, you don’t have to put a lot of effort into a nice salary, it’s probably better than having a pension. While I understand these people, I expect that these processes will also bring about this, I stress that one important part of them, in particular as a result of the intervention law, will also be decided to retire. This will allow us to re-engage police officers in 2013, which I have also been very clear about for some time. I hope you'll give me another three minutes 'cause my time is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Complementary response.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u180	Thank you so much for saying that again. Madam Vice-President, I am more than pleased with these explanations and the Minister's replies. I hope those who are most concerned about all these matters have also heard. You can explain to the end because you would like to answer an additional or additional question. In fact, with regard to this reorganisation that you are predicting, the removal of administrative barriers to police work is somehow closely linked. If I have the right information, a policeman spends 60 percent of his working time at a desk filling out countless forms. Therefore, I would also like an answer to this: When will you start removing administrative obstacles or how will you relieve the police of administrative work so that they can be more active where we really need them? I thank you very much for your answer, and I wish you a successful work ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u181	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Let me finish that part and then I'll go to the administrative barriers. Since the number of police officers in the lowest levels has been falling sharply for the past third year, I stress that it is falling heavily, we will also provide some kind of neutral position in the area of resources with these transfers and pensions so that we can start hiring officers at the elementary level in the following year. I haven't answered you about college-educated people yet. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to be aware that the Slovenian police have significantly more educated people than we pay them. There are 300, 400 police officers in Ljubljana who are paid for high school and have colleges, including masters. I am counting on us to go into the process of bringing the police profession to higher education by 2015 as a basic profession. Administrative barriers, which you're asking me about, that's a phenomenon. I think that this is the phenomenon of the entire state administration, when officials have been simply producing regulations for decades and more at these highest levels, producing certain sub-laws, including laws that are sometimes adopted in the National Assembly, and in particular by means of sub-legislative acts, by which subordinate levels order the collection of such and other data to justify their own existence. I pointed out that for the thief's pate, by which I wanted to illustrate very visually what was going on, the cops did all the same administrative work as for the murder. It's stupid; it's totally stupid to spend 20 minutes on a payment order and so on. In this area, we will be making significant changes to the Criminal Procedure Act, the Penal Code and some other regulations. We also introduce changes in the insurance sector because the state police carry out tasks for an economic operator called an insurance company. That's where they make their profits, and we work for them. This will become payable and nothing else – at least I hope that this law will be confirmed in such a form. As far as the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act are concerned, changes are being announced in the direction that a certain amount of the offence would be, say, prosecuted, on a private complaint or something like that, and that they would not engage the police with its full-scale car snatcher or a 30-40-cent theft machine. That'll put a lot of pressure on the cops. They will be able to pay more attention to what is basically the most paid for, and this is the tougher crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek will raise a question of the delegation to Finance Minister Dr Janez Šuštersič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u184	Nicely greeted! Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! For you, Mr Šuštersič, Minister of Finance, I have a tax issue. The proposal for a law amending the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons proposes amendments to the three existing solutions. I'm mostly interested in two. As regards the tax rate, it is proposed to gradually reduce the tax rate from 20 % to 15 % after 2015. As for the other three, it is proposed to increase the general tax relief for research and development from 40% to 100% of the amount of R & D investment. As a result, additional regional incentives for investment in R & D in less developed areas of the country that have so far been considered state aid are also being abolished. I'm asking you: What effects and consequences, in particular, on economic growth, investment by domestic and foreign investors, on the employment and income of the state budget, will result in the proposed reduction of tax rates on corporate income tax and increased incentives for investment and research and development? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u185	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u186	But thank you for asking. We expect that this is part of what we call the stimulus tax package, which we are proposing in essence for this meeting to be adopted before we focus on the rebalancing, because we have tried to target certain measures that could help encourage the economy. As you know, there is no money in the budget for additional investments, and in my opinion this is not the most effective way to stimulate the economy. The estimates are based on past data. What does this mean, both in financial failure and in view of the effects? More importantly, the economic response to these proposals was very positive. The investment relief was something that the economy also expected the government to do, especially at a time when investments are virtually non-existent or fall year after year, even when we are talking about those in the private sector. Here's a combination of measures. The reduction of the corporate income tax rate or the burden of economic activity is also important because we are giving some signal, including to investors in Slovenia, that the environment is changing here. This is also something that can be done quickly, removing administrative obstacles, procedures, amending legislation, but it takes some time. Various models enable us to assess the effects. We have used two economic models where we simulate possible effects; there is a higher investment relief, due to this higher investment and then also a relief from corporate income tax. The Quest model, assessed by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, is specially prepared with data for Slovenia – approximately such a combination of measures would mean, not immediately, not tomorrow, not tomorrow, but, say, in the following year and then in the coming years, that employment would increase by about half a percent and that the gross domestic product would also increase by about the whole percentage. This is said to be a positive effect on two key economic variables. However, we have also assessed the effects with a general balance model and have also come to very similar results, and above all to a very strong positive impact on investment activity. This may also be said when we assessed the effects on the budget, we have taken into account only a direct drop, as could be estimated by the results of the previous year or in 2010. At these rates, which we are reducing, or in the facilitations we are increasing, we have not taken any positive effects into account in the second step, after these facilitations have led to increased investment activity, employment and so on. If we had taken this into account, but we did not want to, because we wanted to plan the budget conservatively, we would probably have been able to say in the coming year that virtually everything that we are giving to the economy now with these facilitations will come back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u187	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u188	Thanks for the answer!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u189	Don't you have any further wishes for an explanation? Thank you very much. The next question will be posed by the mag. Mr Stefan Tiesel, Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u190	All welcome, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Minister Tomaž Gantar, you have entrusted yourself with the difficult task of the Ministry of Health, because this is a ministry for those who need treatment as well as for those who carry out all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We know that one of the fundamental rights of citizens and citizens is the right to health care. We know that health in many areas, segments run well, but there are certain problems that are systemic, of course, in financing, so that the insurance company collects insufficient funds for health insurance, as well as individual professional problems that arise in different areas. Especially are vulnerable groups of children, because they are powerless, of course their parents are still here and if there are any misunderstandings or problems, this problem is so much more receptive in the media, which also feeds on such matters. So this January, we learned from the media about the problems of surgery of newborns who had a heart failure or a cardiovascular system. Thus, it is complicated in time resolution and also in the professional resolution of these complications, so even the health insurance company has suggested that these children be taken abroad for operations. We know that our health care is well organized and that this will also be the case in the right direction. So in Ljubljana, there are 100 30 children operating at the Clinical Center. Now I ask the Minister: What have you already done in this area and what do you plan to do to ensure that the heart surgery for newborns is carried out professionally, on time and possibly in Ljubljana, that parents are not in doubt and in concern? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u191	Thank you, too, for that question. First of all, I would like to say that in this case there are complications or problems that should simply never have happened. After talking to quite a few people, I am even more convinced that the problem was unnecessary, in particular reflecting the smallness of some who were involved in this part, reflects the poor mutual cooperation of some, poor mutual understanding, can even instigate in certain cases and was totally unacceptable from this point of view. In doing so, it was a mistake for the leaders not to be able to make an immediate end to such a way of working, and I believe that this will not happen again in the future. Let me say that these children who were operated were adequately provided at the University Clinical Centre in Ljubljana, either by our surgeons at the Clinical Center or by a surgeon who came from Israel, Dr. Mishaly, and that it will be so in the future. The problem, which occurred in parallel, that Dr. Mishaly did not have the right licence and work permit, was resolved at that time. During the previous week, he obtained a work permit and signed a contract with him for the next 6 months to continue to operate on these children at the Clinical Centre itself in Ljubljana. The results, especially if we look at the mortality that is being monitored in this area, are excellent. They reach or exceed many centers around the world, but of course it must be realized that in a smaller number, occasionally, as in other areas, treatment may still be needed abroad. But the fact is, the Clinical Center is capable of doing most of these operations in its own house, and I believe it will ensure that, given the interviews we had. I can tell you that there are 36 children waiting right now. Already this week, Dr. Mishaly from Israel comes back to teach further and also to help heart surgeons who are involved. I'm going to meet him myself this week to hear from his side what the real problem was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? I can see that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'm happy with your answer. It is said that sometimes there is more problem with organisation or non-cooperation than in the financial field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u194	Thank you very much. However, I am handing the word to Mr Ivan Hrsak, who will raise the question to the Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u195	Thank you. Dear Vice President, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Day 29. 2. In 2012, there was a halt to employment in the framework of the National Industrial Schools project, and thus 127 trainers working on this project, which aims at sports education for children and young people, which means that these trainers literally lost their jobs overnight. While it was noted in the media that the state has already arranged employment for 90 of these "disputed" trainers and that new moves are already being prepared at the Ministry, which would allow for an even greater number of employees from the former 127. With the forecast of austerity measures, there was a lot of talk and also a lot of fear of being affected by the dismissal of athletes employed in public administration. Some of these people have already achieved exceptional sports achievements in this year's ski winter season alone, which re-classify Slovenia as the world's champion in winning medals. Sports and athletes will have the opportunity to perform at the Summer Olympics and in two years' time at the Winter Olympics. The Olympic Games are, of course, a highlight for all athletes. Their good classification undoubtedly contributes to the greater visibility of the country, but it also means excellent promotion for it. In any event, it is very important in this pre-Olympic time that athletes and athletes focus on optimal preparation for the achievement of the highest results and as little as possible on the resolution of their own existence, so it is important that they are properly cared for by the State. On the basis of this Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr. Žigo Turka, I ask the following questions regarding the first topic: Is it true that contracts of employment for 90 trainers have already been concluded? How will the situation be resolved for the remaining trainers who have lost their jobs? Is there anything more you can tell us about the calls the Ministry is making in this area? However, with regard to employees of public sports administration, I would like to know: Can you confirm that, even though the Government’s website on 13 March 2012 has already published an explanation that the Government has not taken any decision on austerity measures to deal with contracts with employed athletes by ministries or that no changes are planned at the ministries regarding the employment of these athletes – that their employment is safe from the effects of the coming austerity measures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u196	Thank you so much for asking. The short answer would be as follows: the contracts you asked about were signed. No athlete who is employed in a state administration is or has to be afraid that he will lose his job. There are other invitations to tender in preparation. If I go for a longer answer now. First of all, I would like to say that the state does not employ trainers in these sports schools, but co-finances the salaries of coaches in co-financed programmes. In short, we pay the programs, we don't directly hire coaches. We also do not pay these salaries in full, because part of the salary must be provided by a club that is the provider of a particular program, in this club is worked by a trainer. Contracts on the employment of trainers were sent to all selected operators for signature with the conclusions a long time ago. Most of the contracts of programme operators are already signed both by the contractors and by the Ministry. In doing so, it should be pointed out that in a public invitation to tender for branch sports schools, it is possible to run an annual sports programme, called clubs and societies, with an appropriate programme led by a trainer who meets certain conditions; something about these conditions later. Thus, payments to operators are co-financed at national level in the project of industry sports schools and not directly paid to trainers. Given the resources available after the budget rebalancing, which will be approximately the same in this area as last year, of course you make the final decision, as soon as the budget rebalancing is adopted, an additional call for the same coach quota will be issued, it is said that the entire coach quota will be the same as last year, so the number of coaches will not decrease. Indeed, at the end of February there was a delay in the implementation of these contracts, the employment of trainers in industry sports schools was not stopped, but contracts for co-financing paid to operators had expired. In due time, a new call for election was launched, but the selection process coincided with the announcement of the new government on the budget balance and this forecast stopped most payments from the state budget to operators. My ministry, in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, managed to achieve that it was possible to start co-financing payments to 90 beneficiaries of selected programmes in industry sports schools. Following the adopted budget rebalancing, an additional public call will be issued for the remaining number of programmes at national level to co-finance operators and, as a consequence, coaches who run these programmes. In accordance with Article 26 of the Law on Sport, this call will also allow candidates for a public invitation to tender for former or current top athletes with appropriate qualifications. This has not been possible in the previous system or in the previous tender, for so far only Article 28 of the Sports Act, which prescribes higher education for sports purposes, has been applied. Simply put, after a new invitation to tender, Petra Majdič, for example, will be able to run for these funds, not just someone with an appropriate diploma. In addition, the call for funding of payments to selected operators for the remaining trainers in industry sports schools has been published on 15 April for the third deadline for applying for the public tender for the selection of health-style programme operators financed by the European Social Fund and co-financed by our Ministry. The project was published by the Planica Public Institute and 20 new jobs will be available for trainers of children and young people, in conjunction with sports recreation, which takes place in cooperation with societies, schools, outside the regular training programmes. We are also planning a call for sports teachers who could be a technological surplus for employment in the framework of the European Social Fund project in less developed communities for children who need such projects most. The project is underway. We are expected to introduce it in May or June. We can certainly confirm that the number of employees of top athletes and coaches in the state administration is as it has been so far. It is not expected that departmental ministries employing athletes and trainers would reduce the number of employees. However, it must be said that the number of employees of athletes and trainers in the state administration is linked to the government's staffing plan, where individual departments have their powers. So it is not just a matter of my ministry, but the ministries that employ do not predict a reduction in the number of employees of athletes and coaches in the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Minister. Would you like a refill? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u198	No, I'd just like to thank you for that positive answer. It seems that the fear of those mentioned was exaggerated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u199	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Tomaž Lisc to ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u200	Thank you for your word. Good-bye. Dear Vice President, present ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Mr Minister, I have recently been approached by quite a few individuals from various parts of Slovenia who have very poor experience with dog attacks, both on them and on their children. In particular, they fear for their children who are most vulnerable to such attacks and depend primarily on the protection of their parents. Everyone points out that it is only a small part of the population of dogs that are dangerous. They also point out in these letters that the vast majority of dog owners are very responsible. Everyone suggests that the matter in this area can be further improved. Parents are also afraid, where there are often public areas in schools also a collection of dogs that are dangerous. So let me ask you a few questions: Is it possible to think about changes in legislation, especially here I am referring to the Animal Protection Act, which would protect people more from dog attacks or punish irresponsible owners more severely? Do you believe that VURS, the police and other authorities, especially inspections, are doing quality work in this area? Let me say that it follows from practice that parents, when protecting their children, can be punished more than irresponsible dog owners, since the owners of these dogs can, through the intervention of the police, advocate parental punishment and refer to the Law on Public Order and Peace. Third time: Is it only after the first time that the dog has bitten that legislation regarding the wearing of bait dogs is satisfactory in your opinion? Are penalties or criminal provisions in the law applicable to owners of such dangerous goods? How can we better solve the problem of vaccination of these dangerous dogs? Last: Do you think it would be appropriate for irresponsible belt owners to be deprived of these dogs because, for example, they do not comply with the provisions regarding wearing hoods or vaccinations? Thank you very much for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u202	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A nice greeting to the Members and Members of Parliament once again! Ambassador Lisco thanks for this question, which concerns the issue, which also often plagues ghosts in Slovenia and also around the world, and is also dealt with seriously within the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. As mentioned above, the Animal Protection Act is one that clearly states in Article 11 that the keeper of a dog with appropriate education and training or other measures must ensure that the animal is not dangerous to the environment. The same law also stipulates the obligation of the dog keeper to provide for the physical protection of the dog in a public place, so that the dog is on the leash. In the event that the guardian violates the provisions of the law, the supervisory authorities, the police and the official veterinarians today, may impose a fine of between 200 and 400 euros. The problem with dog bite is also a serious problem for me to serve you with information on the number of cases reported when a dog bit a man. After individual years, for the last years, the following is true: in 2010 a thousand 584 bites, in 2011 a thousand 449 bites, by Wednesday of this month, up to 13. 4. 341 bites have also been detected; it is said that we are somewhere in these trends, which have been in the past years, perhaps with a slight decline. The Ministry is in the process of amending the Animal Protection Act, this law has already been drafted in the previous mandate and is now in the final phase. It provides for amendments to Article 11 of this Law and provides for an amendment to this Article 11 to govern the supervision of the protection of the dog in future municipal directors. This is one of the definitions that will increase if, of course, the number of controls in public places is so adopted in Parliament and, consequently, we believe, even better physical protection of dogs, which is a condition, of course, that dogs also do not attack humans. In view of the very serious cases that we have had in the past, the Commission preparing this law has also held a very extensive debate in the NGO circle, including in those who are on the one hand fighting as hard as possible to protect animals, as well as in order to ensure that the animal is as well regulated as possible. This proposal also provides for the possibility of killing a dangerous dog that causes significant harm or, above all, danger to humans and cannot be prevented otherwise. I believe that this will be one of such very serious issues that Parliament will also face, but within the framework of the lawmaker, where the people who know this expertise have come up with such a proposal. It is also a matter of being able to be an official veterinarian, including after this proposal – I am talking about a normal proposal that is in the process of coordination within the Ministry, where it is also thought that education must be provided in particular to these dangerous dogs and if this training has not been successfully carried out, that the official veterinarians have much greater powers in dealing with these dogs than they have had before. There will also be a need to consider this withdrawal and similar matters as they have been addressed in your question. As one of the major innovations is that a dog can be declared dangerous before a human bite occurs. This is what concerns the question of when these dogs must also have clues and the like and that we really in this work also provide greater security for our citizens, citizens, so that there are not many bites, in particular to ensure responsible behaviour of dog owners.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Member, would you like an additional explanation? [[No, no, ……]] Mr Mikhael Prevc has the floor to ask the Minister for Infrastructure and Space Mr Zvonk Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u204	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice-President, distinguished ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In 2010, the Mining Act was adopted and started to be implemented as from 1 January 2011. This law was adopted solely for the purpose of simplifying the procedures for intervention in the exploitation of mineral raw materials, which is meant to be sand-basin in sand-basins, and also to give municipalities more competence in the management of mineral raw materials which are less important for the country. In view of the actual situation, it is obvious that this is not the case because the procedures for obtaining concessions do not run as they should, and as a result the state, the municipality and the economy are damaged. According to the information I know, the former Ministry of Economy is only expected to reject approximately 40 applications in 2011 to extend the duration of concessions for the exploitation of mineral raw materials. The former Ministry of Economy also conducted procedures for granting new concessions for the rehabilitation of illegal mines, a novelty of this law. As soon as the new law was in force, several applications were submitted for such a concession, none of which have been resolved since more than one year since the application. More. No proposal for the adoption of a concession act has yet been made for one case. Since no extension or extension of concessions for the exploitation of mineral raw materials took place at that time, and since this continued exploitation of many sand diggers resulted in significant economic damage to some companies. This, of course, damaged the country as well as the municipalities which were deprived of these concession fees. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, I ask you: Is that true? What were the actual reasons for rejecting applications for extension and issue of limited concessions? Second question: What are you going to do to eliminate these illegalities? will your ministry, in accordance with the coalition contract, require the exercise of personal responsibility for the former Director of the Energy Directorate? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u205	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u206	Thank you very much, dear fellow Prevc, for this question. One of the aims of asking questions from the Member States is certainly also to point out the inefficiency of the implementation of legislation or legislation. the irregularities that are taking place in this regard. As a result, parliamentary questions are also a valuable source or source. a tool in the work of an individual minister and is a valuable instrument in the sense of full parliamentary democracy. The question of the esteemed colleague of Prevac is one of those questions. It is true, as it was found, that virtually all the applications submitted for the extension of mining concessions in accordance with the 2010 amendment of the Mining Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2011, and which were rejected by 40 because it was found that not all the legal conditions, in particular Article 50 of this Act, were met. It is also true that so far no concession has been granted for the rehabilitation of illegal mines or mines. certain concessions have recently been granted, but this does not significantly change the situation in this area. Undoubtedly, we have a problem with regulation on the one hand, whose purpose, which was then pursued, has obviously not been achieved and needs to be amended in this part of the law, so amendments to this law have already been proposed, which we will put into the legislative procedure following an urgent or urgent procedure. short-term procedure. However, it is also true that the response and modus operandi of officials in individual administrative procedures should be reviewed in a particular part. In this part, I will put in place exceptional control over this area and, in line with these findings, I will also take action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u207	Thank you very much. If there's no follow-up question, then I'll just keep going. This has already been done. I give the floor to Mrs Romani Tomc's question. He raises the question of the Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr. Žigi Turku.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u208	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, Dr. Giga Turk! In view of the fact that union organisations announced a general statement on Wednesday 18 April and that this sentence will of course also concern school employees, I ask you: What measures has the Ministry taken to avoid a situation in which the safety of children in childhood and primary schools would be compromised?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u209	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u210	Thank you so much for asking. That's right. The unions announced a general sentence for April 18th, as we all know, that is to say in kindergartens and schools. The unions inform public institutions about this phrase and give them instructions on how to organize work in a public institution, instructions on participation and the course of the sentence. In this regard, I also sent the school district, which was mainly directed by the care of children. We have relied on the legal provisions by which kindergartens and schools are irrefutablely obliged even during the duration of the sentence to provide a work process which, at its minimum, represents the protection of children, the care of children, students and students throughout the business life of the school or the entire business time of the school, but it is not necessary to carry out public service programmes at that time, that is to say to teach mathematics, Slovenian and other things. We demanded that the school door be open, that everyone who came there be accepted, that there be order and peace, that the school be warmed up, that lunch be divided. In the district we listed a list of specific works and tasks at the time of the sentence. This district was published on Friday on the Ministry's website. It provides that schools must certainly ensure that children are protected by food in order to ensure transport for those for whom it is otherwise organised. The unions and Mr Stukelj viewed this district as a intimidation, an unacceptable pressure, accused us of not knowing the constitution, legislation and the like, and convinced us that schools would be closed. Now it's getting interesting. By the way, we didn't make up that circle. We wrote exactly the same things in this district as my predecessor, Dr. Pavel Zgaga, once in the early 2000 ’ s, in the district to the schools before the sentence that was promised at that time. Mr Zgaga and I were convinced that the government, through the publication of the circular, fulfilled their duty to take care of children, that this did not violate the right to strike and, of course, did not require teachers to fulfil their learning obligations. We both complied with the law, and so did Minister Zgaga. But what's interesting is the difference between unions in that and in that case. At that time, in 2000, Mr Strukelj stressed, quote, "that trade unions are in conflict with the government, not with children, to take care of this morning's protection, extended stay and nutrition of children. Teachers should also prepare various round tables and other forms of informal education for students and students during the course of their studies." He also added that school staff are determined to defend the social reputation of the teaching profession, whether or not the sentence will be paid. This is an article in the April 2000 Journal when the relationship was like this. This was the relationship at a time when there was another minister when there was another Prime Minister, and today the unions say schools will be closed and peaked. And they're adding another quote from Karl May. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u211	Thank you very much. There's no follow-up. The next question will be asked by Mr Jožef Horvat to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Vice-Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! As I say, I will address the question to the distinguished Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic. Mr. Minister, I do not envy the situation you have taken over in the area of municipal waste disposal or, more precisely, the unreasonable closure of landfills. Just before the start of the new Slovenian government, the Ministry of Environment and Space with its services and its inspection closed 11 regional landfills, explaining that the landfills in the past failed to obtain environmental permits. This is true, but it is also true that the Ministry of Environment and Space has first produced an extremely complex and hypertrophied system of legislation governing waste management. Because of the easier idea of the dimension of the problem, let me say that it is more than one third of Slovenian municipalities. As the closure of landfills took place just before the start of the new government, and with the knowledge that the garbage represents a good deal, I can speculate that there may be no premature and unreasonable closure of the landfills of orders to the so-called garbage lobby. As a Member, I must point out this, because I want us to take only good solutions in this house, good solutions for all citizens. For some cases of landfills, a judgment of the Administrative Court was issued confirming the correctness of the decision to close the landfills. For example, inspection services in the case of a municipal depot in Ormož require closure on 15 May 2012, i.e. within a month, even though the landfill was regulated according to the prescribed requirements and has a free capacity of up to 50,000 tonnes of treated municipal waste. In particular, this means that 19 municipalities have been demolished against the wall, a lot of money has been spent on the depository, there are no closures, and the population whose social situation is worse every day will have to pay for the removal of waste to more expensive landfills. Mr. Minister, I ask you: What are your views and what planned measures to resolve the complex situation in the area of those landfills? I personally expect reasonable decisions in the transitional period until the end of 2015 or until capacity is filled. Thank you for your answer and for your efforts to resolve the acute problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u213	Thank you so much for asking. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u214	Thank you for the questions. The questions you are asking today are really questions from Members and Members of Parliament, those that need to be addressed quickly and, above all, to find a solution. As you said, the area of waste management is one of those areas where there is still a lot to do in Slovenia. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment in Gornja Radgona also addressed this issue, where we have also written down conclusions for which we have also committed ourselves to implementing them. Part of these conclusions also relate to this issue. It is basically a commitment to prepare and adopt by this summer an operational waste management programme that will manage all areas of collection, processing, disposal, possible incineration and everything that is required under the directives, the legislation that follows us. The problem you mentioned is a very serious one. This is because, within the framework of the Directives on integrated pollution prevention and control, the IPPC Directive has been reduced, there has been a lot of activity in Slovenia over the past decade, and a whole range of companies are significantly faster and more responsibly following these provisions, and most companies have obtained these environmental consents, permits. There may be a difference, as well as an infamous case, in the media room itself — Lafarge and so on. In the field of waste management, it is also envisaged in accordance with the current operational programme and with the investments of some of these major landfills that will operate and will continue to function until 2030. We estimate that these are also so built or are still envisaged for the construction of landfills, given that we are all committed to reducing waste very quickly. The interim period will now take place until the end of 2015, when more storage space is also needed. Given that the infrastructure that needs to be built will not be built by then, we all know that now, because it has been originally envisaged that some waste management centres that are planned will be completed earlier. Slowly, that mosaic fills up. Celje is in operation, Koroška – last week; Puconci have a decision, go to investment, also Prague – just before the end; continues with Ljubljana. That's how this map slowly fills up. We all see, however, that in 2015 it will take quite a bit of a storage space. The problem of these landfills, which were closed, are Dobrova Ormož, Kovor Tržič, Stara Gora pri Novi Gorica, Spija dolina Grosuplje, Leskovec Novo mesto, Deep Trebnje, Gajka Ptuj, is as you correctly found that they have not obtained environmental consent. On this subject, we have had a series of discussions with all the players inside the house, first of all, who are involved in this process, according to both Directorates of the Ministry of Environment, Arso and also inspection services. It is clear that the deadlines requested from the European Commission in 2011 were those when environmental consensus was needed. Otherwise, we have also been punished if we do not comply with these matters in accordance with the IPPC Directive at the daily level. There has been a rather difficult situation in which the next few landfills will in fact be left without a legal basis for postponing. Ordering and activities shall be carried out in this direction in order to effectively ensure that all those involved in this process are made effective in opening these landfills as soon as possible. It is, however, that first of all it is necessary to provide some key conditions that are problematic and which have also led to these problems. The first is that a sufficient percentage of waste is disposed of, processed before being disposed of. The second part is to deal with drain water problems and monitoring is the ones that have to confirm it. There are also too many landfills, and the following are the financial guarantees that need to be provided. Some of these landfills, three, are already preparing re-applications for this environmental protection permitted: Kovor Tržič, Deep Trebnje, Leskovec Novo mesto. As far as I know, Ormož is just about to file this application. All those involved in this process have the task of taking this matter into their own hands as soon as possible and, following the shortest procedures, also obtain environmental consensus, while at the same time the normal commitment of operators to fulfil [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Do you have a request for a supplement? [[No, no, ……]] The next question will be asked by Ms Kristina Valenčič, Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u216	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, present ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Despite the fact that the Minister on the reorganisation of the Ministry and Police has already outlined his views and planned actions, allow me to speak even more in detail about the measures that will lead to the strengthening of traffic security. After a four-year break, I also drive back to work in Ljubljana alone and spend more than two hours on the roads. The citizens warn me, but I also observe that the presence of police officers in the field has decreased. We note that police are focusing mainly on minor offences or on points that pose no greater danger to traffic. It is therefore felt that work is aimed at collecting fines and not at strengthening traffic safety. In addition, trained police officers who are properly rewarded for their work and are not burdened by the fulfilment of unnecessary forms and reports certainly contribute to greater security. That's why I'm asking you: What measures can we expect to strengthen security this year? And: Is one of them also the so-called Cascade project that we read about in the media? What, then, is the matter in a specific case? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u217	Here you go, Mr. Minister. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u218	Thank you very much. In a way, I can go on where I ended up. I'm actually glad to be able to present the whole thing more fully. I'll start where you're done. The Cascade Project – the police are used to each thing to name with someone, more or less, a famous name. That's the way it is this time. But the name doesn't even matter to me. The content is important. The content is in fact what I have already answered; it means that it is a transfer of jobs from the top of the building to its foundations. It means lowering the number of jobs at the top, particularly where management is concerned, where guidance is concerned, an administration where it is not a classic operational police work in the sense of investigating crimes, in the sense of those crimes committed by the National Investigation Office and so on. So, everything else, moving jobs and people down. So that's the point of this project. As far as traffic safety is concerned. I can agree with you very deeply. By the way, let me stress that in this year's year we are recording, I think, according to the latest data, a 40% drop in the number of dead on the roads. This is a relatively very favourable information and it is to hope that this trend will continue, because then we will come between those more decent European countries in this area. I can agree with you. On the one hand, there will be a process, not to be asked what the result is in six months from now, but during this term, we can expect a substantial increase in the number of police posts at the local level, including in the area of which you are asking. But what I find most critical is what I find most problematic. For example, on the route from Ljubljana to Celje, on the old road, it is not acceptable for me to place a radar at the end of a village, to place a radar at the end of a limit or at the beginning of a limit, when the analysis shows you that there are no traffic accidents. It makes sense to punish and it makes sense to act repressively where there are critical points. This means that if we take the relationship between Celje and Ljubljana or vice versa, I am talking about the old road, that we know exactly where the critical points are and where they are dead. If we're gonna put the radar in there, and if we're gonna punish there, I'm gonna do it. But I'm never going to say yes to the radar so it's obviously clear in advance that it's about money. Last but not least, they don't put this punishment in the budget enough to ever be a supporter of this. I myself received this kind of procedure 10 days before my ministerial office on the mountain highway at the toll station. These are pointless measures. I will give very clear instructions to the police in this area when repressive action is needed where and where the consequences are. Because that makes sense. It makes sense to punish, and what is "oreng", forgive the expression, on those sections where we have dead people, where we have serious traffic accidents, not where we haven't recorded traffic accidents for 20 years. Such guidelines will certainly go to the police, and I expect that in this direction it will go and that there will never be a police task, and there will never be – even though I can hear any evidence of this account in the future – that the police will fill the state budget at the expense of the penalty. It is true, however, that, as far as I know, at the Ministry of Infrastructure, transport is also preparing changes to the law in this area. What the coalition said just before the start of this term, namely, that we will be those fines, those fines, officially stated for banal offences – forget to give a warrant, forget home driving license, this is checked by every policeman in half a minute – that you are being punished with 100 euros, 120 euros. It's out of the question. That doesn't make any sense. But we're not going to lower the penalty, as it turns out, where it's a serious offense. Take the cars, too. Today we pay, excuse me, half a million euros to store stolen vehicles in cases where this is not necessary. I'm not saying, where it's the most serious offenses – yes, take the car, because of me for a much longer period than it is now, not for banal things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u219	Thank you very much. You don't want an additional answer. The word has magic. Katarina Hočevar, who will question the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr. Žigi Turku.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u220	Thank you for your words, Madam Vice President, nice greetings to colleagues, colleagues, Members and you, ladies and gentlemen! My parliamentary question concerns broadband internet and its implementation throughout the entire territory of Slovenia. We have heard something about this issue and the actions of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space today, but I am referring it to you, the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, because your Ministry is also carrying out tasks in the field of information society and electronic communications in accordance with the Law on State Administration. We are aware that the Internet is an essential condition for economic development, for economic growth, a key factor in education and an important driver of general information for the population. We wrote in the coalition contract: "Access to the broadband network must be provided to all under accessible conditions." Of course, we also agree with this in the Civil Gazette, because we believe that it is unacceptable that there are places where, due to the overburden of the network or the absence of the population of these areas, there is no possibility of joining the broadband internet. I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General: What have you possibly done about regulation to complete the process 100% coverage of the population of Slovenia with a broadband network? At least: What measures do you plan to take at your ministry to promote e-inclusion? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u221	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u222	Thank you so much for saying that. Mrs Ambassador is absolutely right. Broadband Internet is now an essential condition not only for learning, not just for education, not just for social contacts, but also for business, and it is therefore particularly important that it is equally accessible throughout the country, which is ultimately the objective of Agenda 2020 or its chapter of the Digital Agenda. In Slovenia, more than a quarter of all people have never used the Internet, so the government is preparing several different projects focusing on white fox areas. White foxes exist geographically and white foxes exist demographically and white foxes also exist socialally. In short, you live in the wrong area, you're the wrong age, or you come from a socially endangered area. In particular, it could be said that there are four sets of activities. You have already pointed out what my colleague, Montenegro, said about the construction of broadband networks. In these days, we are preparing legal changes that will give or impose on the universal service provider the provision of broadband services. We are preparing calls for e-inclusive projects, the aim of which is also e-inclusion, and last but not least, the government will soon appoint an advocate of digital technologies or digital champions, as these people appear in various European countries, in order to increase somehow the public, personal, personal visibility of these technologies. With regard to regulation of broadband access, I should like to begin by explaining that we are preparing at the Ministry a new Law on Electronic Communications, which brings improvements in broadband access. The draft law, which was publicised at the end of last year, will provide a legal basis for broadband to be integrated into universal service. Apek, the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications, in view of the current legal draft as a transmission speed, will also be able to determine the transmission speed of broadband access for functional Internet access included in the provision of universal service. As part of the existing legislation and the legislative directive, the Government has the possibility to set compulsory services outside the scope of universal service, so that outside the scope of universal service it would require broadband access to be offered, but it must cut into the budget for this, which is not possible in view of the current situation. At the Ministry, we are aware that one of the key conditions for the use of the advantage of the information society is also a well-trained user. It is only the user who can exploit potentials, improve his competitiveness, his quality of life, and, on the contrary, digital illiterates are even more lagging behind and are excluded from modern trends in the information society. Upon the urgent conclusion that enabling development activities require available investment resources, our objective is to develop an inclusive information society that will be accessible to all residents. In order to achieve this, we are implementing projects to offer more quality, user-friendly e-services and projects to build broadband networks faster than the infrastructure condition for access to e-services and e-maintenances. The availability of e-services and their accessibility are not enough to increase the demand for and use of e-services we are implementing projects to increase the digital literacy of the population and e-inclusion. We strive to apply general conditions and ways to enable each individual to obtain digital literacy. Our activities specifically target those social groups that have a worse chance of joining the information society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Are you satisfied with the answer? [[Yeah.]] The next question will then be raised by Polonca Komar, Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u224	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all ministers, fellow Members! Our question or my question is the following: although we have heard it several times, we will also find it in one of the previous mandates, but once again because it is very important for Koroška. In fact, the third development axis is extremely important for the development of the economy, the flow of labour, the development of tourism and the increase in the well-being of an important part of Slovenia. As early as 2004, there were first ideas, plans to build a new state road, and today it seems that after all these years we are back on track, but unfortunately not yet on the first km of this, for our country we need road connections. We wonder what has broken down, who is responsible for this, and especially when will the third development axis finally be built? In the Civil Gazette, we believe that all organisational and financial efforts must be made to ensure a balanced regional development, an appropriate interrelationship between the centres of international, national and regional importance in the wider area of the so-called third development axis. We understand that this is a major organisational and financial asset, but since serious efforts have not been made to realize the project so far, I ask you: To date, what activities have been carried out on the third development axis project? What's the construction plan? What is the estimated value of construction and how will we finance it? When will the construction of the third development axis begin, and when will the Korosks finally be able to take off on this path for the first time? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u226	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for this question as well. Today we have already said and heard something about the process of the third development axis. Given that it is going from Austria to Croatia's border, it concerns a wide area and it may be right to make some important points once again. Given that the whole process has been going on for eight years, there has been quite a few efforts, but the results or effects are not enough. The procedure for placing the third development axis began at the end of 2004 with the initiative of the then Minister of Transport to prepare a state-owned road construction plan between Šentilj-Koper and Velenje–Slovenia Gradec-Dravograd and the border with the Republic of Austria; this was the first so-called northern part. This 2004 initiative was followed by a supplement, beginning in 2006 for the construction of the state road between the Šentilj-Koper motorway and the A2 Karavanke-Brežje motorway and between the Karavanke-Brežje motorway and the border with the Republic of Croatia. It is said that the entire route, which runs about 200 kilometres, has been divided into three sections: the northern part, which is placed in the space mainly as a four-way fast road of approximately 62 kilometres, the middle part, which is placed mainly as a two-way road and takes place between the two motorways, is approximately 61 kilometres the length of the route, and the southern part, which is placed in the space as a four- and-city two-way and takes place, as I have already mentioned, from the A2 Karavanke–Brežje motorway at the New Town to the border with the Republic of Croatia for approximately 79 kilometres. In view of the complexity of this route and given its scope, these parts were divided into individual subsections: the north section into four subsections, the first from the highway to Velenje, the second from Velenje to Slovenia Gradac, the third from Slovenia Gradac to Dravograd and the fourth Holmec–Otiški Vrh to the border with the Republic of Austria. In the middle part, the route is uniform and was designed after a study of variants taking into account the so-called minimum alternative. In the southern part, this part was divided into three sub-sections, from the connection on the Karavanke-Brežje highway, with the Gorjanci tunnel, to the Malina connection, the second section of the Raspberry to the international border crossing of Metlik and the Črnomelj-South connection and the third subsection from the Črnomelj-South connection to the international border crossing of Vinica. The complications in this placement, finding solutions, subvariant, variants, studies and so on were quite something. The key to the whole story, however, is the fact that the value of the whole route is not so low, reaching around €2 billion at optimum prices, of course resulting from the way in which a single part of this development axis will be placed in space. For the northern part, provision is made for the first and second subdivisions in 2012, for the third in 2013 and for the fourth in the following years, for the central part in 2015 and for the southern part concerning the section Novo mesto-Maline 2012, Maline-Metlika-Crnomelj 2014 and Črnomelj-Vinica 2016. The following are also expected to follow construction procedures. I mentioned earlier that there will be no funds in the state budget for such a difficult investment. For this reason, two sources are foreseen, one source is the concessional ratio, and the other source is the next financial perspective for the period 2014-2020. When, in particular, the road will be built in the first section of the northern part and in the first section of the southern part, it is difficult to predict today. As far as I am concerned, I will be able to give you a fairly reliable forecast at the end of May or in the month of June when we have, as I have predicted, the entire transport infrastructure divided by sections, routes, deadlines and also values for the whole country.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional explanation? [[No, no, ……]] We have thus concluded the first round of questions from Members and Members and are moving on to the second round. In the second round, he has the first chance to ask the question of mags. Majda Potrat, Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr. Žigi Turku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u228	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! I am addressing you with a question that has kept me busy for quite some time and on several different occasions I have already pointed to this problem. This is a decision taken by the Government at its meeting on 8 March 2012, which has banned in the public sector since the date of adoption, as of 8 March, the conclusion of all the copyright and advisory contracts in the public sector. Such contracts may only be concluded with the prior consent of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. When I heard about this decision, I expected that the decision related to the conclusion of contracts in the state administration, as it was often possible to hear evidence of how much money such contracts should have been made. But no. When I noticed a warning in the paper about what it meant to conclude such contracts or to cancel for theatres and RTV, the story began to unravel and it turned out that ministers were also asked to prepare in 14 days the actual state and value of the author contracts in individual sectors. Even within this prescribed deadline, more specifically on 19 March, you turned from the Ministry to public institutions and gave two days of time to prepare a list of all active copyright contracts, as well as those contracts in which the consultation is mentioned. This is something that has imposed control over copyright contracts also on public institutions, not only those funded from the country, but also those in local communities, and, of course, this raises the issue of the Ministry's competence not to talk about the effects. Of course, since we have talked a lot and heard about savings recently, he also reflected in the public record that 23 million such contracts were to be concluded and that this would be unjustifiable to swallow public funds. The fact is that work in culture, in particular in public institutions, in theatres, is otherwise organised as a possible code elsewhere, and this is also known to be organised differently in the public institution of RTV. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister: How is the Ministry involved in the search for solutions so that programming plans in public institutions in the field of culture are implemented smoothly despite the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u229	Here you go, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u230	Thank you so much for asking. Similarly, I have also received an almost identical question from the distinguished Ambassador Tamara Vont, so I hope that she too is now in the Chamber. First of all, this decision by the Government is not a specific decision that would arise on the proposal of the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, but is a general measure which concerns all government services, offices and the whole public sector. It does not prohibit the conclusion of new copyright, advisory and business contracts, but merely requires those contracts to be concluded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or by prior agreement. This decision was adopted at a time when we had a non-functional budget when we had a completely unrealistic budget, when even the starting point for the rebalancing was not ahead of us and when the government had a very difficult commitment to any burdens that would arise in the public sector. In some ways, this decision also protected the directors, the heads of all these institutions, from the fact that, at a time when the balance is being drawn up, when the financial future of their organisations is not ready, they would conclude contracts to commit themselves to payments later in the year for which it might prove that they would not be financially covered. We have also achieved by this measure that public institutions and all others concerned by this decision, including ministries, including government offices, have asked what they are doing or how much of the programme is carried out there by employees with salaries and how much of the programme is carried out by those who are paid with copyright fees, whose job is also social security and what other right is significantly worse than all those who are regularly employed. The problem you were talking about, I'm fully aware of it. We are aware that work in culture, science, RTV, the media and elsewhere in nature is different. We are confident that we will have to find some intermediate solution between such a flexible form of work as the copyright contract and such an inflexible form of work as work for an indefinite time. This is after all part of the program or. a study on the reform of public institutions in culture created during the previous term and on which we intend to build. What a problem to solve in the future oz. How will the problem be resolved? I think it's been a matter of weeks. During this time, we will give priority to the applications for author contracts that will come from the institutions. However, the intervention law establishes permanent solutions for how copyright contracts are concluded in these sectors. Some of the arrangements between the organisation and the organisation are different, from the one where consent to copyright contracts is given by the institute's world, such as the RTV Program Council, to those where it is given by the institution's Council, according to the prior agreement of the Ministry, to those in which it is necessary to go with the author's or. Advisory Agreement on the Government, this is typical in the case of government offices, services and government departments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u232	Thank you for that part of the answer. The lenientness of the Ministry of Culture is indeed moving. I am sure that if you already have all the registers produced and know different types of institutions, then you can also selectively cover the data, but you have generally decided to collect data in all public institutions, and here the question of responsibility and interference in the legal bases is raised. Otherwise, I understand that it is very easy for some to break the laws, since we have recently adopted a decision on the request for the resolution of the RTV Supervisory Board on the Committee on Culture, Education and what is now called little, and no one is bothered by the fact that there is no legal basis; just as there is no legal basis for these matters, which we are now talking about. I am convinced that Mr Miro Petek, the V.D. Director of the Media Directorate, who was a Member of the previous term, knows precisely that we have also discussed the relationship between contractual and regular employees on RTV with a special meeting and that an agreement has been reached on how to change contractual relations into regular employment. So much so, Madam Vice President, that she is concerned that these things are not well arranged. But it's simply an intervention in the department's jurisdiction. The Councils of the Institutions shall decide, the directors shall be criminally and indemnity responsible for the decisions taken, and the programme shall be adopted by the Councils. Once again, if this is a matter for the government to decide, I am still interested, Mr. Minister: What role will the Ministry of Culture then play? For example, it could leave the decision to the RTV Programme Council.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I ask for further explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. Your lenientness is also moving, that is, caring for authors' fees in organizations where we will reduce wages due to the balance. I got a lot of questions this afternoon about norms in education, two questions about authors' fees, no one asked about how parents, say, would pay for kindergarten. As far as the Ministry's attempts to approve these or other copyrighted fees are concerned, let me tell you that the arrangements follow the main competences of the Ministry when it comes to employment in certain parts of the public sector. So if it is necessary to obtain the Ministry's consent for the employment of new people in the public sector, then a similar regime is also linked to the author's fees. You have not heard me correctly, this desire that the RTV Slovenia, which, by the way, is an elephant in this savings area that is not actually affected by saving, will be confirmed by the RTV Slovenia Programme Council and the ministry, Mr Miro Petek, I personally will not let go into these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u235	Thank you very much. You want procedural? [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u236	In accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we hold a debate in the National Assembly on the answer to the question I have asked the Minister. And that's simply because I think it's an obvious nature, but it shows a little bit more talk about things. First time. RTV is not a direct budget user, but it is financed by an RTV contribution, which is a hidden method of financing or otherwise regulated mode of financing, but we finance it by viewers and viewers or audiences and listeners through this instrument called RTV contribution. The government will certainly be able to decide on the RTV contribution in the context of legislation because we know that it has powers both to reduce and to increase RTV contributions. But it's another misunderstanding, Mr. Secretary. As Members, I am given the opportunity, the right, the responsibility and the duty to ask questions about topics which I think are current in the wider community; whether you like it or not. If you think that there is no concern from my questions concerning both the social situation of the individual in this country and the family and everyone else, you are very wrong. Where we're going and where we're going [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u237	Dear colleague, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u238	Procedurally, I justify why I think that this should be discussed, Madam Vice-President. Will you give me my time back? What I want to tell you is that we can or cannot agree on an assessment of the situation, and we have obviously very different views on ways to solve the search. You only stress saving, and I think that this government has not offered enough on the revenue side, and in the context of the rebalancing we will not have the opportunity to intervene in the income side of the balance sheet, only in the expenditure side. That's the problem. But you don't want to talk about anything and you're putting us before the fact that we've been executed, so I think it's urgent that we discuss these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u239	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. Your proposal that the National Assembly hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žiga Turka, will be decided on Thursday, 19 April in the framework of the vote. I give the floor or opportunity to ask Mr Mirk Brulc a question and he will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u240	Mr. Secretary, it's not our fault that it's our turn at the end. In Nova Gorica we have a construction cave for some time where we should be a work centre with accommodation units. Calvary has been towed since 1993, when the need for such construction has matured. The local community contributed: land, projects and more. Unfortunately, at the beginning of the construction because of the cheapest contractor and the collapse of the company, this construction stopped. The construction company failed, but it's another story that's more about public procurement. By that time, however, young people had become adults, and many had also died. The workshops work under special conditions in Solkan in extremely poor and cramped areas, so I ask and hope that the austerity measures will not affect this most affected population of young people and adults, because caring for them must have priority in our society. That's why I'm asking you: When will the Ministry issue an invitation to choose the contractor and thus continue to invest? Believe me, your parents will be most grateful, and even more so will the guardians of this work centre. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u242	Dear Member, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you very much for that question. Indeed, this project has a beard for quite a long time, and a key problem has arisen from the bankruptcy of the contractor, as the construction activities of the Nova Gorica Centre of Safety and Work in last year, this year, 2011, have stopped. Before the selection of the new contractor, it was necessary to assess the work to date and, accordingly, to prepare a new call for proposals, but it happened that the Ministry had to retain the commitment and redistribution of assets in the rebalance due to the action of the previous government in 2011, so there was no possibility of continuation of the project and the call for proposals and the case closed this year. Following the adoption of the 2012 budget rebalancing, the Ministry will continue its activities in this area and I hope, honourable Member, that you will also support the balance. So we will publish a new tender for the contractor in the second half of this year. As a result, however, there will be a delay in this investment, but the investment will be in turn and will be completed in 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional explanation? [[No, no, ……]] Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič has the floor to ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic, and the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Zvonk Černač, a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Mr Zvonko Černač and Mr Franz Bogovich! One of the main obstacles to economic development in Slovenia is the problem of putting the facility into space, which we have found a long time ago. We know quite a few cases when a potential foreign and domestic investor decided not to make the planned investment work because of the longevity and complexity of the procedures related to the placement of facilities in the space. We feel these problems very strongly at all levels, especially at the local level, which is why my question, respected by the Minister, is the following. In the Coalition Treaty, you committed yourself to transferring land from the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests to the local community: When will this covenant be established? In particular, it is a problem of placing in the premises of commercial and entrepreneurial facilities such as trade zones and infrastructure projects that are necessary for the development of individual municipalities. The guide and the basis for the individual municipalities for their development are already covered in the proposals of municipal spatial plans, both graphically and in writing. Unfortunately, there is always a problem of changing the destination of agricultural land that local communities need to build this infrastructure, which would benefit not only craftsmen and entrepreneurs, but the entire economy and not least farmers, as this would create the conditions for Slovenian farmers to sell their crops on the domestic market. Especially since I come from the coast. On the Slovenian coast we could achieve an extension of the tourist season in autumn and winter, just when our farmers are best prepared to sell their annual crops, such as wine and olive oil and many other Istrian goodness. Tourism is the most growing economic sector in the world and tourism is an opportunity for Slovenia. By investing in the tourist infrastructure and changing the destination of the facilities which are an obstacle to the expansion of this infrastructure and the accompanying craft and business activities, Slovenia could become a tourist destination 365 days a year. I'm asking you nicely for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Will you, Minister Bogovich? [[Yeah.]] Here you go. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u246	Have a nice hello again. Thank you for your word, Vice President. My colleague and I share time and agreed to start in the first part, because the specific issue by the Member is also related to the transfer of agricultural land from the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests to municipal property. The Coalition Treaty states in one paragraph, and also in the legal basis, that the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, under four laws and according to seven different criteria, can transfer land from the ownership of the Fund to the municipalities. This is the Fund Act under Articles 14 and 16a, where unpaved building land can be transferred, and also water protection areas under Article 16b. This also allows the Law on the Re-establishment of the Agrarian Community and the Return of Their Property and Rights, as well as the Roads Act and the Sports Act. As far as building lands are concerned, they are the most important in this area. The legal basis is that the land which was owned by the municipality in 1993 was changed to a building and the subsequent amendment of June 2004 allowed such land to be transferred to the municipality. The procedure is clear and is also under way. It is, however, necessary to conclude a contract for the transfer of these land to the municipality. In some cases it is difficult for some municipalities not to fulfil another obligation to transfer agricultural land to the fund. That's the way things are sometimes. Otherwise, they are essentially carried out and, after all these four procedures or four laws, some 400 hectares of land was transferred to the congregations last year. Of these, 132 hectares are also building plots, and 270 hectares are approximately part of this range of agrarian communities and water protection areas. With regard to the other procedures relating to de-de-barcation – to share time with a colleague – we have also joined the Ministry in an intensive review of legislation. Thus, in the field of all sectoral legislation, there is a whole range of agreements on Ars and similar matters — over 30,000 per year. We are talking about the preparation of proposals to try to simplify some procedures; more importantly, some simple procedures to return to administrative units, because we believe that these matters will be resolved more quickly there. The key issue that is likely to arise at all times and will always have to be the right measure and the right feeling, however, is the adoption of municipal spatial plans and this crucial moment of change in the destination of agricultural land, where we are always at the helm during the protection of agricultural land on the one hand and on the other hand also in economic development. I hope we have a happy hand in this part. The agricultural land law of last year also requires us to adopt a very clear border between permanently protected agricultural land and other land on which this intervention will still be possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u247	Minister Zvonko Černač, your part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u248	Thank you very much for that question. Regardless of the fact that we have a lot of good will and that we will work hand in hand with the environment and agriculture, only with good will will will it not work. Unfortunately, even with the amendment of the regulations under the law, we are planning in the first step the most urgent changes to the Construction Act and the Spatial Planning Act. We anticipate greater autonomy of local communities and we are counting on some changes regarding the status of individual interventions in the area in that part which is not environmentally unacceptable and the setting of a gap between the protection of agricultural land where it is important in terms of agricultural production and not where it is not important. In short, we anticipate, in addition to the amendment of the sub-legislative acts, the amendment of the Construction Act and the Spatial Planning Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional explanation? [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you, too, both ministers. Mr Bogovic, I understand that this transfer of land from the Fund takes place to the congregations. The problem is in reverse; that the lands which are agricultural and which municipalities need to expand their infrastructure and infrastructure projects or facilities so that they cannot somehow be transferred or the Fund stands on its own to prevent them. There is also the fact that the Fund sells its lands to which it should take care. Specifically, Forma viva – sold a few years ago at a very fat price. I think the Fund is in charge of taking care of the land, not selling it at such a price, because it was calculated that this would turn into building land. There is a problem that we, as local communities, cannot do anything, expand and meet the needs of craftsmen, entrepreneurs, tourism and even the economy, if we are confined to land change. The purpose of the land is justified and justified in the proposals of municipal spatial plans, so that there is no bluff here. All you have to do is do it. See, it is now even that municipalities have to transfer to the country if the country needs to accommodate infrastructure, roads and other, such as rail tracks. However, if this were municipal, the state could employ to obtain land free of charge, if necessary for infrastructure, and vice versa. In short, with what Mr. Blackach has said, I agree. I hope this works out for you. Here I also personally support you and you will always get a "yes" vote when you transfer land to local communities because they know best what is good for their development.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Will you, Minister Bogovich? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u252	There are two questions that are intertwined here. One is the change in the destination of agricultural land, the adoption of the OPR, in which these changes are made, and the other is the transfer of agricultural land from the Fund to the municipalities. As I have already said, in this part, the current legal basis, which the Fund must respect, is that it cannot transfer agricultural land to the municipalities. In this part too, there is no legal basis for doing so. In such a case, a legal change would be necessary. The Fund’s key role is to manage agricultural land, play through its policy also with land policy and the Fund’s key policy is to manage agricultural land and forests. This second part concerns the conflict of interest itself, or the use of purpose, and is governed by the amendment of spatial documents. As far as the policy on the sale of agricultural land was concerned, it was also an established practice by the Fund that, in the past, land on the edge of habitable land could be sold under internal rules only at 50 % of the price of the building land. In this part, a security guard within the Fund was made to prevent speculation about transfers. Otherwise, as I said before, it's a number of areas. One area of agricultural land protection is the agreement on the use and protection of agricultural land against interference and this agreement is also reached. The second issue is formal when the Fund is allowed to transfer land. In the context of land policy, they can also be bought, sold and, in this context, we would even like to encourage this so that land policy can also be implemented, the rounding up of farms. However, the third problem is spatial legislation, which is within the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, which wants long-term procedures that are really impossible – for example, from 2004 to 2012, we are now adopting new municipal spatial plans.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Would you like some more procedural? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u254	Yes, procedurally. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I appreciate that the answers have been so qualitatively prepared that I note that this will have to be discussed in the National Assembly, particularly because the Fund does not have a legal basis and legislation needs to be amended. Mr Černač, this will actually enable you to realize what is written in your programme and in your coalition commitment. In order to speed up the realization of this commitment, I would suggest that both the position and the opposition support the proposal that, in accordance with Article 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure in the National Assembly, the debate be held, that Members and Members be informed of this issue in more detail, and that each of them, from his point of view, should be able to tell how this seems to him or how he sees this problem. We come from an area of all Slovenia, I can defend southern Primorsko on my own, the other parts will be different and together we will help our local communities develop better than they have so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u255	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišić to hold a debate at the next meeting on the replies of Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic, and Minister for Infrastructure and Space Zvonka Černač, on his question, the National Assembly will decide on Thursday, 19 April 2012, in the framework of the vote. We turn to the next question raised by Mrs Tamara Vont, Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Well, in fact, Mr Minister has already given a good answer to Mrs Majde Potrat's question, but still. A lot of people who have a copyright contract have kids and pay for kindergarten. So now might be an opportunity to complement what you've wanted so badly. Question: How do parents who have a copyright contract pay their kindergartens without it now; let's say they ran out at the end of March? First of all, I would like to know if there is anything more you can say about this intermediate form between a fixed-term job and an author contract. First of all, I want to know: Is there a timetable, or how else can I call it how you're going to solve these things? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u257	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u258	Thank you so much for asking. I do not want to give the impression that we do not see the problem at the Ministry that the author contracts are currently an obstacle, and we are doing everything we can to get this done as quickly as possible so that the solution in the intervention law is as good as possible. But it is so that in all the other things that are happening in the country, this is not the worst problem of all. With regard to the question you ask me about this intermediate form. You may know, perhaps not that a working group for the reform of public institutions in the field of culture has been formed within the framework of the previous government, that this working group has achieved some results, some recommendations. I met with this group. They have interesting ideas. They point to this very problem that in cultural organisations – and now that the Ministry is united and the Minister knows other issues – we could add science to it and some other matter – that the status of public servant on the one hand is very difficult, the pure free contract work is too flexible, brings too little rights. I am seriously concerned about this myself, or I have no pleasure in forcing people working in culture into this kind of relationship, so that this "mildness" is sincere. We will continue the work of this group as soon as we have settled in the budget and the intervention law. I expect that with some solutions we will come before you in Parliament by autumn. What's on the table right now is that you can read in this group's report, and from here on out, we'll continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional explanation? [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u260	Still, I could read it, but since I have you here in front of me right now, I'd like to take this opportunity that's not very common to tell me where you've been, say, talking to this group. I really want to know what these solutions are. Let's say: Is it opening espions or something? I don't know how you're going to solve this. I believe that's where it says it, but since you're the minister in charge of this area, I'm counting on you to explain it to me. Just one more thing, I realize that there are far worse problems, that's probably what we're all aware of, but we still can't get an answer like, "There are worse problems." But we can also ask the question: What's the worst problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u261	Please complete your response, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u262	I think I gave a big answer. To spend on this issue, as regards how it is resolved at the moment, how it will be resolved after the adoption of the intervention law. With regard to this solution, it is absolutely not going in the direction of any espionage. But I don't want to talk about ideas, options, variants that we're thinking about before things are, like, relatively mature. So please don't blame me, but I don't want to wake up any expectations or resistance with solutions that can change in the coming months.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u263	Thank you very much. There's no need for procedural. Then first, the question is posed by the Magi. Stanko Stepišnik, for agriculture and the environment, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u264	Thank you so much for saying that. Savinje river basin belongs to the most endangered areas in Slovenia. The floods in 1990, 1998, 2007 caused tremendous damage. In the framework of the Operational Programme for the Development of Environmental and Transport Infrastructure 2007-2013, funds from the Cohesion Fund were also provided for the reduction of water damage of €74 million. Six projects have been included in section 3.2.5.3 The reduction of water harmfulness, whose total value has been estimated at €185 million with VAT. The first and largest project is to ensure flood safety on the Savinja River. The government is seven. 9. 2009 replied to Mr Aljoša Bonajo's question that the project is not at risk of realisation because of the slowness of the state administration. The government has assured, I quote: "We can ensure that all activities are carried out and that the funds allocated will be spent during the implementation period, that is, by 2013 and the money will by no means be lost." It is a bare coincidence that we have asked the question in writing on April 13th, and I can already read quite a bit of the answer in the Saturday Annex. This is said to be clear that the Water Depletion Programme has been moved to the 2014-2020 programming period. That's what they say, the network works well, the press is real, so whoever attacks us sometimes wrote it, too. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u266	The answer to this question, which concerns flood safety and above all Savinja, is quite simple for me today, given that we signed this contract in Celje last week, which starts as the first water protection projects, it is true to improve flood safety on the Savani River. The contract is worth €45.3 million with VAT and refers to water protection facilities in Luča, Celje and Vojnik and also downstream of Laško. These are critical projects that in the framework of the flood in Lashkem in the Savinja basin caused the most headaches and also caused the greatest damage. This project is signed and we hope that all will be successful and that the contractors will find out, are locally-known operators in the waterworks and I believe that they are qualified – and I hope they are financially capable – to bring this project to its end. There is also a second phase of this project, a real project for the installation of dry retainers to keep the water wave on its way to Celje. We all know that those of you who are from that end, in particular, as well as others who have been otherwise concerned that there are still a number of professional dilemmas where opposition is not all things have been met, but this project is in public debate. This VAT is also on track to be adopted, so that in the next financial perspective the first project, which will take place from the water protection area in Slovenia on the Savinja River, can be again possible. As a second project, two projects are foreseen in this financial perspective, and the project is also on the Drava River. This is a major leap in these projects, and this is also worth quite a bit, €38.4 million. For this project too, Ministry staff shall ensure that it is adopted this year. Thus, the two projects envisaged for this financial perspective are well placed to be implemented. In addition to the already mentioned project of the second phase of the Savinja river, a project of water retentionists from Ljubljana is also being prepared, a new project that is important for self-protection is said. Activities are also taking place on the Mura River, so that one part of the high-water embankments is being implemented and will be completed this year, otherwise new projects are being planned for 2014-2020 and cohesion funds for these projects continue to be drawn up. Speaking of which, when I'm here today, Members with a knowledge of the environment, you're really asking me about the most acute problems -- we started with cohesion, we continued with garbage, we came forward for water protection, protection in terms of flood safety -- I have to say that we're talking about this within the Ministry. In the coming months, if we promised earlier that we would relatively quickly prepare an operational garbage programme, this is the next phase, the second phase, another area that we want to systematically tackle. In the framework of the powers that are now under the Ministry, Arsa, the Institute of Water, then the Arsa regional expositions, we want to find out what the best organisational form is in order for the protection against floods and, in general, general water management to come into order. Over the last 20 years, we have lost proper control and a conceptual approach to these projects. I can also say calmly that, within the framework of the other resources available, it is as integrated from the budget under the watercourse maintenance items as well as from the water fund item, provided for several interventions this year as it will continue. We all know that it is also systematically carried out within the framework of a joint project for the construction of a hydroelectric power plant on the lower Sava of flood protection from the Wall Bridge to the Croatian border.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Is he gonna be okay? Are you satisfied with the answer? You are. As a last question, Mrs Renata Brunskole will ask. Apparently, this issue also flies to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Mr Franz Bogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Hello, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! In Europe and Slovenia, there is strong support for the use of renewable energy sources. These include biogas plants that process biodegradable waste. In recent years, in Slovenia, people in biogas areas face the problem of smell from biogas and also smell from pig farms. This has certainly been affected by the fact that the new Biodegradable Waste Treatment Regulation has not yet been adopted and the problem is also in conflict with agricultural and environmental legislation as regards the introduction of maximum levels of heavy metals such as zinc surpluses in pig manure. At this point, residents are exposed to the health of the harmful stench, they get sick, they feel sick, and there is also a daily spill of biogas manure in the fields, which also comes from household waste. We note that the competent services within the competent ministries should carry out accurate checks and records of input and exit raw materials. It is necessary to control the use of biogas manure on agricultural land. The latter is happening almost everywhere in Slovenia, causing numerous protests by the surrounding population and NGOs. Dear Minister, this end of the week has certainly been a well-known protest against the environmental movement Proteus of Montenegro, which, only on Saturday in a few hours, attracted two thousand and four hundred people to the signing of a petition for smell in Montenegro and the surrounding area, which is spread from the biogas and pig farms in Lokva. In my view, these protests would not have occurred if the competent services had acted properly when we were both Members of Parliament, and I had asked similar questions to Mr Karl Erjavac, the then Minister of the Environment, who replied that this was the manure of the second class of environmental quality, which means that this mud could not be used to fertilise agricultural land. Today, however, this manure spills through the White landscape, in an area that we say is an important potential for agriculture, local self-sustainment, and so in the four years since the Krasian white plains, over a hundred thousand tons of manure. Mr. Secretary, I ask you: In what way will you contribute to the final resolution of this problem, and when will you come to Chernobyl and take a closer look at this issue? I am aware that you are a new minister, but there is nothing: you have started well, and I must say that you have certainly been among the most active in answering the questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u269	Thank you very much. It is true, Minister, you have the opportunity to answer the question for the seventh time. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u270	Thank you for this numerous opportunity and thank you for this question, which is the right thing to talk about. Thank you, too, for having such a great presence in the hall. I was on the other side of the previous term, but I don't know if there have ever been so many colleagues on the last question. That's how I think we all got off on this job together. As far as biogas is concerned, I think there are quite a few problems we face in Slovenia. One that we have also considered is also related to the concept of how large biogas, what should be in these biogas plants, or the concept that it takes 200, 300, 400 hectares of agricultural land to fill. These are some sort of problems. Other problems that have now been mentioned concern also spatial placements of individual biogas plants in space. Let me say calmly, given that there is quite a bit of biogas in Slovenia – two of them are the ones who are at the moment the most spiritist; one in Gorenjska, one in White Krajina. I think that the key problem is not in the agricultural regulation and regulations, but in the context of these two problems, from the place itself to the place where they are placed. As far as the regulations themselves that were exposed are concerned, let me say that there are two regulations that speak – and when we talk about disagreement between the two regulations, it is right to clarify what this is about. The first is the Biodegradable Waste Treatment Regulation. This clearly sets out the mandatory treatment of biodegradable waste and the conditions for the use and placing on the market of processed biodegradable waste, both compost and perishable mud, biogas fertilisers, digesta. Secondly, according to many, contrary to or in conflict with the first, the Water Protection Regulation is a regulation to prevent pollution by nitrates from agricultural sources. This Regulation, which provides in particular for the use of livestock manure This Regulation relates to the rules for the fertilisation of manure, livestock manure, and therefore to the quantities and periods during the year when it may and may not be allowed. In border matters, because this is nitrite-related – it speaks mainly of nitrates but not of other elements. This Regulation is also supervised by an agricultural inspector. The difference between these two regulations is, as I have already said, that one relates solely to the issue of nitrates and the use of manure, and the other relates to biogas. In these biogas plants there is one process of processing animal residues, where there is also a different chemical composition. The new Regulation will have to regulate this and will also include guidelines for composting conditions and techniques in this Regulation. This Regulation is in preparation and I am afraid that not all the problems that arise in each of these locations will be solved, but it will only explain some things that will very clearly include what is allowed, what is not allowed, because some of the elements mentioned in these are also elements that are part of a particular diet and are normally turned around in this process and are also certain essential elements for both plants and animals. I think there may even be too much expectation here that this regulation will solve everything. The key problem – there were many inspections at the site already mentioned – was 8 in 2010, 7 in 2011, and 4 this year, the last one was 30. 3. – according to a number of warnings, letters. I also met myself at a different event at the end of last week, and it was not intended to do so, with the Montenegrin mayor, who is also inflamingly warning and asking for this term. The agreement is that representatives from our Directorate of Agriculture and the secretary from the environment meet with her as soon as possible and try to solve the relevant problem, which is not a general problem that concerns biogas plants, but is a very specific problem in a specific environment, when placed in a space that has been done in the past. But we all know [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Thanks for that part of the answer. This biogas, and possibly also the one that is also problematic, is also related to the issue of environmental authorisation or the maximum capacity; therefore, with the restriction, as you said, the size of biogas, but I would point out something else. Today I had the opportunity to hear most of your answers, there was a lot of talk about accommodations in the room, including the municipal spatial plans, your consents, the consents of the Environmental Protection Agency, but you also talked about cohesion projects such as water supply in Pomurje and in the White landscape and so on. In connection with the karst terrain in the White landscape, we are concerned that the source of Dobličica, i.e. the groundwater, will be destroyed and that there will be an ecological disaster. Maybe now it looks like someone would say it's too panicky, but no. In fact, we know what happened in the 1980s with the source of Krupa and PCB and that this is a matter of long years, perhaps not yet today, has not fully recovered into its original state – mainly from the point of view of environmental protection. It is also about whether inspection services have all the levers, so that even biogas companies somehow lead to complementing the technological process with dehydration and clearing of the meadow to this extent in order to be able to release – or even doubt about the smell. In fact, people are literally suffering, but if you look at the earth, I've looked at it, it's like burning land. I can't imagine a crop that people eat from these kinds of discharges, that's this shit. So I would really like to say, "I come to the White Land, I look at it, and I tell people in Montenegro how and what to do to solve it."
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u274	Like I said, I'm aware of this problem. Two points are in the White landscape, as far as the environment is concerned, on this agenda. I really don't know how to tell you today. As I have already said, it is in agreement with the Mayor of Montenegro that in peace at the professional level people will get together and find these answers. I know, and here I wasn't saying that last year it was closed, supplemented technology. I hope that those who are professionally responsible for this matter will do their work properly and well. I'm sure that's not a problem you'd ignore at the Ministry. Both inspections, both agricultural and environmental, were thoroughly included in the projects. From this place I can say calmly that I will first ask my colleagues to prepare this final position for me. They'll also have a conversation with the mayor. But I owe it to the Belokranjkas and the Belokranjs, and I also owe it to this meeting, where we will try to unite both of them together. I'm also counting on having this conversation with you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u276	Mr. Minister, I would like to ask if your professional services can prepare a written answer to my question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-16-SDZ6-Redna-02.ana.u277	Thank you very much for your proposal. With this we have come to the last question, although with us there is only one representative of the government, Minister Bogovic, who has insisted to the end, we thank all those who have responded today, from the President of the Government, all ministers, the Secretary-General. I would like to say that this concludes this agenda item, which we will continue on Thursday, 19 April 2012, when the National Assembly will decide on the proposed decisions in the context of the vote. I also interrupt the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. One more thing, the meeting has been suspended, but I am warning the members and members of the Committee on Finance that in 15 minutes we will begin the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy in the Grand Chamber in Tomšičeva. But I'm staying on a nice trip home. Good night!
