ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u1	Because of television broadcasts – more for viewers and viewers of national television than for Members and Members – I inform you that the meeting is postponed to 4 p.m. because the Committee on Internal Policy, Justice and Administration has yet to prepare a report on the amendment of the Government law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u2	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 4th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 4th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Wednesday, 25 January 2012, with a reference to the meeting, with one item on the agenda alone, this is a summary of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for an extension of the agenda, so I propose to the assembly that the agenda for today's meeting be set, as you have received with reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 79 votes against 3. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed agenda has been adopted. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of four Members, first signed by Janije Möderndorfer. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the draft law, Richard Branisl.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u3	Honorable President, colleagues, colleagues! The Group of Members and Members, on behalf of the motioners, also by the National Gazette, submitted to the legislative procedure on 9 January 2012 a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, thus initiating the legislative procedure. Amendments and amendments to the law are directly linked to the appointment of ministers and the work of the future government. The situation in Slovenia, in addition to other measures, also requires effective, rapid and real decisions. Amendments to the law mainly lay down the new structure of ministerial functions. There are valid reasons for the abolition of individual ministries and the merger of work areas. The government structure must be adapted so that the reduced costs of the country and at the same time increase or at least maintain its effectiveness. The public administration must provide citizens and citizens with quality services for normal purposes. This reduces the number of ministries from 15 to 12, which is quite comparable to our comparable countries, and will also ensure greater government operations, improvements in its work, coordination of ministries and thus increase synergies in the work of the government. In the first phase, the ministries' associations will not in themselves bring greater savings in the budget and, for the longer term, enable a substantial better use of human resources and create an opportunity for rationalisation and thus substantial savings. With the introduction of the novel, the State Administration will also have sufficient time to reorganise itself during a certain transitional period, without consequences for the normal functioning of the ministries and bodies in its composition, until appropriate amendments are in place and the completion of the Law on State Administration. We believe that it is essential for the amendments and additions to the already tabled bill to be adopted before the new government is established, in line with the new structure of ministries.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u4	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, he has the word mag. Marjana Kotnik Poropat. I'm sorry, I'm going to give the floor to the presentation of Mrs Maša Kociper's work report. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u5	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At its 4th urgent meeting today, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act, tabled by the Group of Members, signed by Janie Möderndorfer, for which the College of the President of the National Assembly is the 9th Committee of the Interior, Public Administration and Justice. 1. Decided to be treated in a simplified manner. At the beginning of our meeting, the debate revolved more around procedural issues in terms of whether the conditions for dealing with this law were laid down before the President of the Government was appointed, and whether it was possible to decide adequately on the amendments tabled by the five parliamentary groups which substantially amend the legislative text and were delivered to the Members before the meeting. On this basis, a procedural proposal was adopted and the meeting was suspended for 45 minutes. The meeting followed, in particular, around two amendments to Articles 9 and 7, and a very broad discussion was held on these two articles. The members of the committee from the members of the positive Slovenia Group and the Social Democrats objected to the abolition of the Ministry of Culture as a self-resort, because, in their view, culture represents one of the main foundations of Slovenian statehood, which has preserved Slovenians as a nation in the most difficult times of its history, so they should maintain the particular importance of culture in the form of a single ministry, as has been the practice in previous mandates. The amendments considered that the merger of the Ministry of Culture with other sources does not mean its abolition and consequently does not reduce the country's concern about culture. This arrangement is intended to be merely a rationalisation of the organisation of the state administration, which they have taken up in their programmes. With regard to the envisaged placement of the State Prosecutor within the Ministry of the Interior, the members of the committee from the members of the members of the positive Slovenia Group and the Social Democrats have pointed out that such a solution is constitutionally and systematically controversial and contrary to the regulations in other European countries, as well as against constitutional decisions and democratic trends, which go in the direction of the prosecution's distance from the executive branch of the government. In this regard, the amendment’s investors considered that the placement of the State Prosecutor’s Office in the Ministry of Interior’s field of work did not abolish its status as a public authority, as this status remained independent. The Committee further adopted all the amendments of the parliamentary groups which had signed these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u6	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Richard Braniselj. [[No, no, ……]] On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u7	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The uncertain political and economic situation in the country is urgently requiring effective and rapid deblocking in the creation of a new government. This will enable the functioning of the National Assembly and the adoption of laws and measures necessary to bring our Slovenia out of the crisis. Slovenia must become a successful country where citizens and citizens will not be afraid of their future. On the basis of the five-party negotiations, a so-called crisis exit coalition was formed, as was confirmed yesterday by the signing of the coalition treaty. DesSUS's efforts have always gone in the direction that politics starts to work for citizens and citizens what they were promised before the first early elections. The next step is the creation of a new government, and before Saturday's vote on the mandate-holder it is necessary to amend the current government law and harmonise the structure of ministries, which will be followed by a reduction in the number of ministries and consequently a reduction in the cost of the state. This will increase the efficiency of the state administration. The updated proposal for a new Law on Government is supported by the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u8	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u9	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposed amendments to the Government Act, taking into account the amendments, of course, we believe that each coalition has the right to form a government structure in accordance with the objectives and programme presented in the elections. This time, too, the team wants to do so that it is possible to appoint a government in line with the new structure. There has been a great deal of controversy on the Internal Policy Committee on why this law should be adopted before a mandate-holder was elected. First of all, we hope to say that the coalition that has now emerged has shown much more seriousness and consistency. Second, in view of the situation in which the State is located, it is certainly good for us to get government or ministers with full powers as soon as possible. They usually had government teams for the first hundred days to organize. In the current situation, we need to cut this spiral of pessimism as soon as possible and, above all, to enable the economy to breathe, since the Slovenian economy is the very potential that will enable us, in the event of a more competitive business environment, to speed up the exit from the financial and economic crisis. There is nothing to wait for, so this marriage is on our tables today, because any delay could be a waste of time. The task of all of us Members and Members is to enable the future government to work with full powers as soon as possible and to achieve good results. We've all advocated a more rational state administration. This has also led to the proposed reduction in the number of ministries, which will also have to be significantly more effective. The objective is therefore to reduce the cost of the country and to increase its effectiveness. This creates another controversy with the Ministry of Culture. There have been some opinions that this bill abolishes the Ministry of Culture. That's absolutely not true. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have advocated a reduction in the number of ministries in our programme and therefore we are aware of the need to pool individual resources. Without that, the number of ministers cannot be reduced. In our view, this does not mean the abolition of the Ministry of Culture, but, according to the new Ministry, the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport will be named. In the spirit of rationalisation and the necessary substantive reorganisation in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support this proposal. The abolition of the Ministry of Culture in the Slovenian People's Party would not be supported, as we believe that culture for Slovenia has always been and will remain important. We have before us a proposal that we will support in the Slovenian People's Party's Group because we believe that Slovenia must receive as soon as possible a government capable of coping with the challenges posed by the unfinished transition and the economic crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u10	Thank you. New Slovenia and Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u11	Dear Members and Members, welcome! Each government team, when it starts its work, must somehow tell how and how it will work. The Government Act lays down the framework for the future operation of any government. I don't want today's whole debate to revolve around what anyone has already proposed and what no one has wanted to deal with, because I don't think it would be fruitful. Moreover, whether we admit it or not, circumstances are different. However, when the coalition led by Positive Slovenia proposed this law, 44 votes were promised. Today we have signed a coalition treaty with 50 votes in favour. So the circumstances are different. Of course, it is undeniable that this law on government has prepared the so-called Jankovic coalition, and we have adapted or modified the structure of this law with amendments because we wanted to adapt the structure to our needs and our desires. Maybe someone's wondering why in that way. It is a simple answer, because this will speed up the process of reaching a new government. You'll probably all agree with me that this is what people expect of us and want it. And every day we win is a good day. Despite all things, it must be stressed that there are no great differences between us. If you look at our pre-election programs, you'll find that more or less we've all advocated about the same number of ministries. And if you look at the proposed ministries, there's no such difference. I think we all propose about the same structure of ministries. A major debate on the cultural ministry is under way and is under way. Remember, nobody shuts down this ministry, but we've all proposed that certain departments unite. Jankovic's coalition, too. They have also proposed to add an extra resort for Slovenians around the world, and we have also proposed something to add to it. Of course, it all depends on how you look at these things. Either you're watching a glass half full or half empty. The fact is, none of us are abolishing the culture ministry. It is true, however, that each of us added something to this cultural ministry in the proposal. The structure seems relatively insignificant to me, much more important to me is content. If we think and imagine that the future of Slovenian culture is important because of one cultural minister, then it is sad. It seems to me that the future of Slovenian culture is far more important than the resources we will use for culture and from the activities that our culturers will undertake. Of course, we are not making that decision today, but I imagine that there will probably be a huge and huge dissension about it. New Slovenia will support this amended government law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u12	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Positive Slovenia, Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u13	Dear President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Of course, before the first decision today, and in fact a kind of general, how the National Assembly with a coalition will function, which is likely to work with 50 votes in this National Assembly, as we hear predictions. The undeniable fact is that this law, which is before us today, was proposed by the Group of Members together with three other co-signers, DeSUS, the List of Gregor Virant and SD. The aim was to make a law together that would allow a new cabinet member to come together. If we had kept the allegations that we had listened to so far, even though we had failed to carry out, I would have said that the vote on the mandate-holder itself, if we had withdrawn the votes or signatures from this law, would still have remained in the procedure, because those who actually cosigned this law had already held the fig tree in their pocket and in fact knew that this law needed to be continued. It should also be said that when we discussed this law and were preparing a coalition agreement, the two presidents of the parties who are now in the new coalition covenant suddenly turned and agreed on what they did not really agree on after the consultation itself. President DeSUSa Karl Erjavec has very clearly pointed out the position that such a change when the prosecution is transferred to the Ministry of the Interior is constitutionally controversial. Two presidents, or one president and a vice-president, who then replaced the sick Prime Minister, Mr Pahor, say Dr. Vlačič and Dr. Gregor Virant, both lawyers, that this position is wrong. Together, we have found very quickly that such a proposal cannot actually go any further. That's why it was changed. There is something completely different about this marriage today. And the other thing is, it's the Ministry of Culture itself. The undeniable fact that we are introducing something completely new in the National Assembly after 20 years, we are deleting the Ministry of Culture. The fact is that Positive Slovenia cannot agree with this and cannot support it. It all points to some sort of general. Why? I'll try to justify it. The point is, already on the board, when we discussed this, we saw that it was a complication. We ourselves expected such a committee to last for perhaps twenty minutes and no more. In fact, it lasted much longer. Why? They announced an amendment to this law by amending Article 7 with an amendment that is not available today. It is a simple policy that allows us to make it possible, with technical implementation alone, that we will not actually have a debate on this law today, but simply go to the vote itself. Unless I'm wrong and they'll surprise me and put in the last minute, which I call on them, an amendment to fix this marriage. There will be no misunderstanding, no one is delaying the adoption of this government law. Far from this, we are even convinced that this path is really being taken too quickly, at least with the allegations made by the SDS party at the College of the President of the National Assembly, when we first filed this law, and later on by the committee, when there has always been a speech that such a law should be adopted when a mandate-holder is elected. Therefore, it would be time for this to happen on Saturday when, according to the coalition's forecast, we elect a mandate-holder and immediately the next item would also be the government law, which I believe would not last more than five minutes if it were properly written. Therefore, I inform you that the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia cannot vote in favour of such a law, which is contrary to a number of principles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u14	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Dr Vinko Gorenak shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u15	Thank you very much. And because in this term, for the first time in my life, it's a nice greeting to everyone! We have a government law ahead of us. The marriage has introduced an earlier-initiated coalition, if I say so, and the fact that now the emerging coalition is somehow being amended is, in fact, a very good sign for the opposition. Why? Because in the past we were at least used to the fact that the previous composition of the National Assembly had been rejected by the current band, whatever the opposition proposed. Colleagues, take this more than a forecast of good cooperation with the emerging opposition, we'll say. Every government changes the law, we know what it is also right to prepare it and draw it up to some degree. I am sure that the first candidates, with Mr Jankovic at the head, had a good purpose, you prepared 12 ministries, so from 18 reductions to 12, you followed a clean, beautiful example abroad, Estonia, Austria, Estonia 11, Austria 13, Finland, and we know how big it is, 11. But there was a flaw in your marriage. The Slovenian Act around the world is about having a minister for this area. But you two somehow got together, and you said it was culture and Slovenians all over the world. If we were to discuss your marriage in the original, we should also correct the Slovenian law in parallel around the world. The eyewitnesses were that he was in such a hurry. I am deeply convinced that it is essential that we know how many ministries we will have before the election of the mandate holder. This is a significantly better option for me to have a clear picture of the state of the ministries before we even talk about the mandate holder or vote on him. What we are proposing is, in fact, the following. We are proposing 11 ministries, and that is in this text and nothing more. 11 ministries, not 12, but we're keeping a minister coming out of the Slovenian Act around the world. Somehow it was said that there was no rationalization here. The moment we press the button, we will save 504,000 euros in the state budget. Why? Look, we're going to have 7 less ministers and 7 less heads of cabinets, and I'm going to leave the secretary of state, someone's going to ask if we're going to have at least the secretary of state for Slovenians around the world, given that the law provides that the ministry can have up to 2, I'm assuming that this will also happen in the area of Slovenians around the world, or that in the field of culture, the secretary of state will be the secretary of state. So if you're counting the minister's gross salary, one cabinet chief, and if you leave all the state secretaries alone, which is supposed to be more than at least after the ministries, you get 7 000 euros times 12, add up, and it's 84 thousand euros, times 6 such moves that we're taking today because we're talking about the abolition of 6 ministers, 6 heads of cabinets, it's 504,000 euros. I think it's a very nice trip. But look, at least in the case of the cultural ministry, the culturers are protesting, writing letters and so on. We can calmly tell them, very calmly, that at least this money that went to the minister and the chief of staff will stay with them in a moment and go for their activities. They probably need money for business, not for paying the minister and his chief of staff and something else that's in there with the minister. So much for that. As far as the prosecution is concerned, I have one thing to say very clearly. The model envisaged is no different than you have in Scandinavia and according to my data in Portugal, if I'm not mistaken. That's one thing. That's another thing. All those who speak today about how the prosecution will be subordinated to the police are wrong or unaware of the rules. The D.A. is acting under the State Prosecutor's Office Act. The police act as an organ in the compound. And there can be no subjugation here. What kind of powers does the minister have? The organisation, the status of the State Prosecutor's Office and the supervision of the business. Where does anyone see any subjugation here? Of course he's wrong. However, it is necessary to amend the Criminal Procedure Act in order to better cooperate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u16	Thank you. Procedurally. Here you go, Mr. Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u17	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I even sat on the committee this morning, where Dr. Gorenak concluded, and I expected him to do so, and I made it clear that an amendment to Article 7 would be tabled. On this basis he also persuaded a colleague of mags. A conspiracy to do so. And so I ask, even colleagues from the List of Gregor Virant said that a protocol was signed that would change or that was different, as was the legal provision and the indents that are set out in this proposal of the text which has now been refined. For this reason, some members or members of this Committee also voted in favour because they felt that this amendment would come on the agenda today. The amendment was the result of a discussion on the two issues raised, the abolition of the Ministry of Culture and the integration of the Prosecutor's Office with the Ministry of the Interior. I therefore ask the proposer whether this amendment will be tabled to know whether we are going to discuss it at all or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u18	Thank you very much. This was not exactly a procedural proposal. But I can inform you that the amendments have not been tabled so far. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u19	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. But I'm Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u20	I'm sorry. That's what was announced. I've noticed.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u21	On behalf of the Social Democrats, I will present my position. In opening, let me say that the Social Democrats are aware of the opportunity that appears in each new government to regulate the scope of its action at the time of its term of office, as it thinks that this organisational structure will enable it to best realize what the coalition has set out in its coalition agreement. However, two sets of issues are raised for the Social Democrats in the present Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Government Act. For the first, I would say that this is a set of formal and procedural problems and a second set of substantive problems. And now let me start with this first one, looking like a less problematic set. In fact, we have before us the basic text, which, if we add it together, was signed on behalf of the 52 Members by a group of four Members, the first to sign, from four groups of Members. We will now discuss, in the supplementary proposal, the marriage text, which is the subject of 50 Members and Members. The procedural problem begins at the moment when we see how the bill was first considered and how now the second time. The time dimension of the adoption of the law would not have changed completely if the decision on this law had been put to a Saturday session, after knowing whether the proposed candidate for Prime Minister had also received support in secret elections. This law would be passed, and all procedures would proceed without any empty running, as we say. But no, now it had to happen quickly. And it happened that at a given word it was expected that the amended bill would also receive an appropriate amendment, and we hear that there is no such amendment. This is another very important problem for me now. And now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to touch on a more substantive set of questions. If the law provided for a smaller number of ministries, both texts would be followed by 11 other times by 12 repositories. The financial savings are about the same or not significantly different if they go because the Minister also remains without a portfolio with a function that will have to be covered in some way financially. This is now this aspect, which is of a financial nature, but is significantly more important than the other, which is called the loss of the symbolic and real power of the independent Ministry of Culture, which, by the nature of its activities, connects with Slovenians around the world, because we are talking about a single Slovenian cultural space. So much for putting in and connecting to culture. But a lot more complicated is another question. In Article 7, the amendment, which in fact interferes with another law, which is the Law on State Administration, also addressed the problem of placing the Prosecutor's Office in the interior ministry. In the debate on the home work body, we have pointed out that this is both in European practice, in the practice of the European Union countries, as in our legal practice, in fact a novelty, but for us Social Democrats an unacceptable solution, that the prosecution should be included in the internal ministry and thus at a formal level, and probably at some other level, lose its independence and essential link with the legal set of issues and legally know the authorities, which are one of the three autonomous branches of government. These are therefore fundamental reasons why the Social Democrats cannot support this proposal. However, you have a well-respected new coalition, enough votes to be able to accept it yourself and the government will be able to function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Although Mr Janko Weber has been announced on behalf of the Group of Members, we have listened with equal and even greater joy to the colleague of the Magi. Majdi Potter. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill and move on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. Procedural? Please, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u23	Before making a decision, I would ask you, the President of the National Assembly, to give the positive Slovenia Group the opportunity to consult before the decision itself, given the discretion afforded by this Rules of Procedure, that we do not have a discussion before the decision – in view of the forecasts that were positive – by the amendments' proponents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u24	How much does he want?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u25	Ten.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u26	Okay, I'm adjourning the session in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u27	Procedurally. Can I have another procedural one?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u28	Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u29	In view of the fact that you are interpreting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly under Article 282 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask that, in view of the large number of newcomers in the National Assembly, you interpret the provision of Article 140, first paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure which says, "the third reading of the National Assembly discusses and votes in full on the draft law. The examination of the individual articles of the draft law shall be carried out only in respect of the articles to which the amendments are tabled" shall address the individual articles. At the same time, Article 142, in the third paragraph, states: "The provisions of this Rules of Procedure on the ordinary legislative procedure shall apply mutatis mutandis to the consideration of the draft law in the simplified procedure, except for provisions 138 and 139 and provisions laying down a time limit for the third reading of amendments, unless otherwise provided for in this Rules of Procedure." I don't see it being said here that article 140 would not apply to a reduced procedure. Article 141, paragraph 1, says, "after the conclusion of the debate on the bill or after the adoption of the harmonisation amendments", we do not have these, "The National Assembly votes on the bill." After the discussion, I ask politely for the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u30	Thank you. I don't think it's a complicated question. In the summary procedure, amendments may be tabled at the sitting itself until the third reading of the draft law begins. I just said we've moved on to the third reading of the bill. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u31	The President, Article 1 speaks of the discussion of the draft law as a whole during the third reading. It discusses the bill in its entirety! This Article 142, which relates to the reduced procedure, shall not exclude. I'm asking for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u32	Look, in any case, we agreed on a ten-minute interruption, so that after the interruption we can also resolve this issue. We'll resume the session at 4:50.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u33	With regard to the proposal or question concerning the interpretation of the first paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure, I inform you that Parliamentary practice has been no general discussion since 2002 in the third reading of the proposal. This would also be entirely contrary to the intention of the Rules of Procedure, which makes it absolutely clear that the general treatment is to be carried out only in regular proceedings, when a qualified number of Members so requires, and otherwise there is no general debate on the law. And, of course, it's logical that she can't be at third reading. This is a stable parliamentary practice since 2002. Parliamentary practice is also a legal source, which we cannot simply change on our own at each meeting. If such questions are raised, they can also be dealt with on a business committee. We have moved on to the third reading of the bill, which is the decision on the bill. I wanted to inform you that the Law-Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the bill would not be harmonised. Before we go to the vote, I ask you if anyone wants to explain their vote. First, an explanation on behalf of the Group of Members, if you wish. Please apply for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Zoran Jankovic, please. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would also like to contribute my voice to the Government Act, and I propose that this meeting be held today, or that we now vote against you to prepare a new proposal by Saturday, in this proposal, to amend and leave the prosecution under justice. Somehow I will quote Karl Erjavac, when we worked together, he warned that this is constitutionally controversial, and there are two doctors of law, both Mr Virant and Vlačič, accepted this and returned to justice. And a second time. I also propose that we leave the Ministry of Culture alone and one more. Let this be the compromise proposed by the opposition, the future opposition. Let it be one more thing not to take what was the strongest weapon in Slovenia all the time – our language. Mr Gorenak started talking about the cost savings. I was already afraid that we would come to the conclusion that we would also end Parliament because we would save even more. I would quote what he said after the board meeting when he announced, "But I announce that we will table an amendment to the meeting of the National Assembly, which will then be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much." And I don't think he's correcting those who were on the board, that he'd let them know, because I don't know how we're going to work this way if we start at the beginning. So my proposal is, once again, to vote against, to put forward a proposal for a culture of your own, to have one more ministry, to bring the prosecution back to justice, and in Positive Slovenia we will give our vote to such a law on government, for the good of this government, for the good of this country, if possible. Otherwise, I must say, those who say so, Mr Braniselj, you and Mr Gorenak, I do not know who else will believe you if you announce something that you will then swallow within the hour. We have prepared ourselves for this proposal of yours, prepared to vote in favour and prepare to propose that the Ministry of Culture be independent, despite the EUR 504,000 that this ministry is costing on an annual basis. I propose once again, and I ask that we do this on behalf of these countries, I say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u35	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The explanation for the vote is an explanation of vote. In principle, it is not that, but I do not blame you, given that there are some new people in Parliament, but that is the situation – the voice must be explained and I will explain it on behalf of the Group of Members. We'll support the marriage. That's the first thing. The other thing is, about the amendment. There's one thing I need to say inside these few minutes. I actually said this morning we were going to table an amendment. However, if within the coalition envisaged by the coalition there is an unification that such an amendment is not necessary at the moment, then that is probably the case. It's not gonna be 504,000, it's only 79, with the culture department. You got it all wrong. Maybe I'll use it for the D.A.'s office. Look, we're gonna have the state administration law in order anyway. Thus, the State Administration Act will also regulate this area. We still have enough time to talk within the coalition in a way that is appropriate. Now, to all those who are so afraid for the prosecution, I have little doubt that something must be seriously wrong because you're so afraid. I don't know what they'd be so afraid of, because the Constitution guarantees, "the Attorney General, the applicant and the representative of criminal charges, and has other legal powers. The regulations and powers of the state prosecutors are laid down by law." What the hell do you see here? It doesn't say anywhere that the prosecution is an integral part of justice as such. So the solution provided for in the law is similar to that of the Scandinavian countries, I said earlier that I think that Portugal, too, can still be looked at. Nothing's gonna be wrong. But now, according to what kind of prick some people are talking about this prosecution, I'm afraid they're having some kind of trouble or something. Look, it doesn't make sense. As far as the amendment is concerned, we didn't file it, the coalition didn't file it. I speak on behalf of the parliamentary group, but the coalition did not file it because it assessed that it did not have to be filed. That's all it is. And you will probably be able to admit this right to the coalition as we will to you if such a coalition is formed. In short, we'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u37	Thank you. These were explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. And now I ask you to apply for explanations of votes, individual votes, as Members and Members of Parliament. Please. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It was written in 2004. At that time, Mr. Janez Janša spoke before this national assembly, saying, "The fans gave us a voice, because we were consistent because we did what we said, because we did not make one promise, the other we did, and because we kept the word." If you have listened to today's debate, respected colleagues and colleagues, not one of the representatives of the future coalition, which is indicated today in the National Assembly, has spoken. At the first meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly, the President of Parliament expressed doubts as to whether to put the Government Act to a vote before we have an appointed term for the composition of the new government. The SDS representative said, the mandate holder will be the one who will also draw up the concept of government, and until the elected one who will draw up the concept of government, then there is no point in considering the law at the meeting. Similarly, the representative of SLS and New Slovenia said. By the way, SLS even said today: "With us the abolition of the Ministry of Culture would not be supported, but we will support the law." In short, in this brief speech, as far as I had the opportunity, I believe that very clearly, I said that what representatives of the future coalition are saying and doing is far from consistency, far from honesty and far from what I could today give my voice. Therefore, because of all the inconsistencies that have taken place in the past days, especially today, I will vote against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u39	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. The law in the form we have before us, I will not support it. Not that I would not want to trust a given word, but a few cases of broken promise can be traced, so I do not believe that there would be any direct effects on the fact that the Ministry of Culture will not be a single ministry. Let me just give you two arguments. At the time of material prosperity, the budgetary resources for culture were lower than those allocated to this department over the past three years by the Pahor government. Another time. In pre-election programmes, one of the parties representing the largest party of the future coalition did not have words on culture in its programme. If the importance of culture is now as set out in the new coalition contract of 50 Members and Members, that it is a national resource, I am examining the opinion of the interested public, the most creative part of Slovenian society, to expect us to listen to their interests and to give culture the place we usually know in the holiday words so intensely and beautifully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u41	Thank you. Just a warning. We are not discussing the explanation of vote because it is not a general debate on the law, but an explanation of vote, which is why you are voting in favour or against. Mrs Melita Župevc is next. Please explain your vote for or against.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll explain my voice if my colleagues let me. Thank you very much, colleague Irgle. I can't support this marriage. There are at least three reasons. The first is that, in principle, I rarely agree with the leader of the SDS Group, who said that such a law could not be adopted until a mandate-holder was elected in the National Assembly. Therefore, since we have not yet elected a mandate-holder, I cannot vote for this law because I do not see what the new government is doing and what powers the future President of the Government has envisioned. The second reason I will vote against this is the abolition of the Ministry of Culture. As a key reason, a reduction in the cost of the country was cited. I am already looking forward to getting out of the crisis so quickly, because we will end the Ministry of Culture. However, I understand that it is probably one of the reasons that the first criterion for the recruitment or placement of ministers is that all the presidents of the future coalition will also be ministers. Obviously, none of these future coalition presidents felt called Minister of Culture, had any other resources, so maybe that's one of the reasons I wouldn't want to guess. And the third reason why I will vote against it is that the Office of the Prosecutor is announced to be placed under the Ministry of the Interior. I would like to read only two opinions that have been recorded today, that is, that current Justice Minister Aleš Zalar believes that this would be unconstitutional and also Bojan Dobovšek of the Faculty of Security Sciences says that such a solution is not known in the EU and that it is not a classical division of power. And in the end. It seems very interesting to me that the new coalition, as the future Prime Minister has said, has not at all come into existence when he criticised the words of the President of the Republic, how shamelessly he has already done all these things and is very coordinated. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u44	Honourable President of the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! I hold in my hand the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which I received this morning in the mailbox and I read it before the committee or committee met before you discussed the amendments. It is clear here that, given the nature of the changes, the Law on State Administration should also be amended simultaneously. And given that it has been shown in the National Assembly that some Members and Members are prepared and consciously violating the Constitution, you have shown this earlier, you say so today. This merger of the Ministry of the Interior with the Prosecutor's Office is already controversial and you are consciously accepting this, and you will also defend this from citizens and citizens. It is also a reflection of our political culture, or rather of our culture, that it unites and abolishes the Ministry of Culture. This is probably a gift from the National Assembly or a future coalition for a cultural festival that will soon be on February 8th on Prešeren’s day. And despite the protests of the Association of Slovenian Writers and the Union of Culture and Nature of Slovenia and all others who are against the abolition of the Ministry of Culture, you are on your way. Good luck on this journey, your journey won't be long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u46	Of course, this is an explanation for the voice and why it will take place in such a way, it is more than clear that you have taken the opportunity to debate us. And in this way, why I will vote against it is one simple reason; for the first time, because there are all the elements, that we can say that it is a constitutionally disputed law and that it is worthy of constitutional judgment. And the other thing that matters is, of course, that I don't know what we're going to say on February 8th, which is before us. And I am very interested in this minister, who, of course, will represent the area of culture, what he will actually say. I'm waiting for that day. And besides, of course, I'm afraid to live in a country where the State's Attorney's Office will be governed by the Minister of Police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u48	Dear Members and Members! At least three reasons are why I can't support this marriage. And what are the reasons I'm going to try to tell you today. Today we're talking about organization, we haven't talked about content yet. The content – in which areas the ministry will work and what the coalition's emphasis is – we have not spoken. Therefore, no one is willing to listen to us because we can no longer change because we are adopting a government law today. The fact that you want our cooperation is therefore not true, because we cannot give any opinion to the President of the Government, the mandate-holder, and therefore it certainly does not. That we must get the government as soon as possible, I agree. That's why we could get my vote. However, I cannot support the fact that, on behalf of being efficient and swift, they would also give me prosecutors under the Ministry of the Interior. We could be very quick to form a perfect dictatorship in our country. And then they would have been really effective. That is why it is wrong for us to act that way and to talk about marriage today without knowing what the content will be. And the third reason why I cannot support this is, of course, because culture is actually our signal to the Slovenians, that we can also in the field of culture, with culture, with cultural activities, even in this way show the way out of the economic crisis, even in this way. The culturers are asking us to use their methods, their way of working – cultural dialogue. These are the reasons why I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u50	Thank you for saying that. Thank you for the microphone, too. As a member of the constructive opposition, of course, I would like to strongly support all the good proposals proposed by the coalition, even if they are not supported, perhaps by modifying them for all. This time, however, it is a matter of such deviations from our principles and our opinions that unfortunately, even this proposal proposed by the coalition cannot be supported simply for one reason. Look at this badge, colleagues and colleagues. Probably not many people even know that this is the brand of the European Capital of Culture, the Commission for Culture in Brussels, which has somehow given a green light to Slovenia to present our authentic culture this year. 1. 1. 2012 started this big project. And these colleagues and colleagues who have decided in Brussels to implement this national project, how to look at their faces if they find out that we have abolished the Ministry of Culture. Of course, I fully understand that rationalisation is necessary, but rationalisation is not only in reducing ministries or their cabinets, rationalisation is likely to take place after a more detailed reorganisation and organisation of the ministry is established. I simply cannot support this proposal, because culture is a sacred thing, a nation-building thing for our country, for our people. And we shouldn't touch this culture the way we touch it. For me, the proposal of our President, Mr Zoran Jankovic, is acceptable. Let's think about it again. Let's all think about it together. I would very much like to give my voice to this law on government, but to one as it is now prepared, with culture and also with other things, and I cannot give it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. That there will be no mistake, of course, it is also in my case to explain why I cannot support such a law. I would not list too long and too wide the reasons my colleagues and colleagues in Positive Slovenia and some of the Social Democrats have summarised. But if you don't mind, I'd like to quote a paragraph in tonight's dinner. A colleague in a column summed up beautifully, I'll say, in the last paragraph of this column, my thinking. It goes like this: "Let's be optimistic to begin with, let's imagine that reducing the number of ministries from 18 to 12 will mean better and cheaper functioning of the country. Despite optimism, I do not understand," of course, "what the abolition of the Ministry of Culture on one hand and the preservation of the Minister for Slovenians on the other hand without a licence. Formally, this area could easily be allocated to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the culture would become part of another ministry, and the care of timely delivery of election materials to Slovenians around the world is enshrined in the new coalition treaties by means of bold letters. Over a thousand 200 people have signed up against the abolition of the Ministry of Culture. But if they fail, they have the hope that nothing will change at operational level." Finally, allow me to quote the words that DeSUS President Franco Jurša summarized a journalist who admits that a few ministries do not yet mean achieving the goal, as it will be crucial how many officials will be less employed. In view of the insight into the coalition contract, however, the number of State secretaries who are expected to do much on this issue does not promise me good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u54	I'll vote against it. The most important reason is the placement of the Prosecutor's Office under the Ministry of the Interior. This decision is indeed legally disputed, and from the point of view of the Constitution, it is said constitutionally and systematically. The Constitution has already defined the position of the prosecution in the section on justice, not in the section on executive power, and several decisions of the Constitutional Court have confirmed that the functional prosecution falls under justice and not under internal affairs. This is also the direction of the Council of Europe. And I would like to point out that our regime will be one of few, if not the only one in the European Union to deviate from this model, and that we are returning to the position before 1991 when we had such an arrangement in the so-called socialist system. The problem is not only systemic and constitutional but also completely practical and substantive. The placement of this Prosecutor's Office under the Ministry of the Interior at the same time means that the Prosecutor's Office lands under the executive branch, which is said to be under the second branch of the Authority, which entails completely practical consequences in terms of action in a more hierarchical and formal manner. Let us not forget that prosecutors have really important powers that require their independence: the decision to initiate a criminal procedure – whether to initiate it or not, or to continue it or not; they represent the State in a criminal procedure – they may decide that it is not, they may decide that it is, depending on the individual; they decide to lodge or drop the complaint; they decide on very important supervision and targeted investigations by police. It is inappropriate for the police to supervise the prosecution and not the other way around, this is also constitutionally controversial and, therefore, our parliamentary group, if you insist on doing so, will file a constitutional dispute and also require the detention of law enforcement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u56	Good-bye! On February 8th, it will be a cultural holiday, when cultural creators will receive many beautiful words, but they will receive a gift obviously today – the abolition of the culture ministry. This is the first time since 1945 that this country, formerly and today, will not have a cultural minister. Remember, during the national liberation struggle, what role culture played among the partisans. The 9th Corps had a theatre group, etc. I agree that we have a Culture Minister united with the Minister for Slovenians around the world. It goes together. However, if you want to save, then convince your friends to withdraw the request for a referendum on family law, and we are there. What am I especially worried about? The newly formed ministry will have two secretaries of state. Now, will it be for education, or for sport, or for culture, or for higher education, or for science, or for technology? How are we gonna cover this? I'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. I was on the board, and if that's the right policy, what I heard between the lines before, when I said, how is it possible that people are lying to us here, publicly in our face, then I will never be a politician. If it's naive to trust people with a fair word, then I'll be naive my whole life. I will absolutely vote against this law because for the first time, you have passed the procedure or the procedure was different from that of the first law that we tabled when they said that the amendment of the Government Act could be discussed after the election of the mandate holder. Secondly, as regards the merger of two ministries which are not going together in any way and which is constitutionally questionable. Thirdly, for the abolition of the Ministry of Culture. Slovenians were always great in culture and when we talk about culture, we cannot pass values such as honesty, tradition, solidarity, tolerance, work, preservation of Slovenian language and customs. If we are going to abolish these values by abolishing the Ministry of Culture, or at least give people some thought to whether these values will still be maintained in this way, then this is a very bad journey. And Presheren would probably say that, and he also wrote this: He remembers his apartment and suffers without peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. I'll vote against it myself. I am very sorry, I would like to vote in favour of staying married in the original version, and I don't know why not, why we just left the so-called tourism part of the law, while we combine culture together into a new super ministry where this culture will experience, if I caricate so little, some fate of a golf ball picker or a dishwasher in the school cafeteria. I will say that this is a profoundly uncultured act, especially if I speak on behalf of those people from where I come from, from Primorska, where the culture between the two wars was the one that preserved the Slovenian people in Primorska, that they are where they are. We've talked about this a lot. I don't want to dramatize these things. Today my phone almost burned down when I got a call, but don't let the cultural ministry merge. Let not culture be seen only through consumption. Culture is more than consumption! Another thing is the law that unites or removes the prosecution in the judiciary and sends it to the interior ministry. We're going back to some other times, not just 40 years ago, but somewhere further. Even so far back in the Middle Ages, when we had the principle of "Kadia sues, the Cadillac judges." I cannot therefore vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u61	Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u62	Thank you very much. How nice to meet you! As the President of Positive Slovenia said as the future constructive opposition, it is still time for things to be completed. In Slovenia, important events are already taking place this year, such as the European Capital of Culture, entitled "Let's roll together". The first turn was in Maribor, the second in Slovenj Gradc, the third in Velenje, the fourth on Saturday in New Town. I can't imagine how the Novoměsts and some of us coming from the south-eastern Slovenia will see this decision. Moreover, even in Murski Sobota, where you come from colleagues and colleagues, of course the sixth turn on Ptuj. With regard to justice, the prosecution – they would not talk about it so much, the colleagues made it clear. My constructive proposal is that the colleagues who signed the coalition treaty yesterday really consider and propose additions. Let me say that at the invitation of Prešeren's fund for a cultural event that we all received, I don't know if they were at the Ministry of Culture or was the Prešeren fund's Management Committee somehow far-sighted or visible – that is, the title of the event is "Culture"? Yes, please!" I really cannot support such a bill. Let's please the organizers and keep the Ministry of Culture!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Roman Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The so-called Coalition of Reason is in fact unreasonable in the abolition of the Ministry of Culture and understands it only in the context of rationalisation of costs, but not as a symbolic meaning of Slovenian identity. You take on the historical responsibility that for the first time in the history of Slovenia alone this country will not have this ministry. Another time. The so-called Coalition of Reason does not understand the traditional view of the prosecution as part of the judiciary in a broader context. If I reject the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, I would nevertheless like to remind you of the 1998 Constitutional Decision, which Mr Lovro Šturm, Miroslav Goč Korošec, Peter Jambrek, Tone Jerovšek, Matevž Krivic, Franc Testen, Lojze Ude and Dragica Vedam Lukič unanimously accepted and concluded – I will not quote in full, but only part: "Although both the authorities for internal affairs through the competent ministry and the State Prosecutor's Office are independent state authorities in this area, in functional terms, the State Prosecutor's Office is the one that can require certain action from the authorities for internal affairs and these authorities must also act in accordance with the law. This situation essentially requires the functional subordination of internal affairs authorities to the State Prosecutor's Office and not the other way around." Let me just remind you of the Consultative Council of European Judges and the Consultative Council of European Prosecutors, which in 2010 stated very clearly in the Bordo Declaration that "the position of prosecutors in relation to their function must also be regulated in a comparable manner to that of judges". Of course, there is no doubt about their constitutional relationship with the other two branches of government. For this reason, I will vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u65	Thank you. I ask again for applications if anyone else would like to explain their voice. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Those of you who have proposed the first draft of the law have found that the structure of the current government is too extensive, and you have therefore proposed changes and a reduction in the number of ministries, in order to ensure that the government is better operational and to improve its work. That's what we think. Our intention of making amendments was just like yours – that is, that the government better organizes itself, that it will be more operational, that the work will be better done and more coordinated. The difference between you and us or between our proposal and yours is this: you have proposed twelve ministries, we propose eleven. At six, we have no problems, not you and me, but we would somehow preserve them, as we or we know what would be involved in these ministries: finance, defence and so on. But stop where there are differences between us. So you've estimated that some ministries need to be brought together, and these are different from those that we think would be more operational and better if we combined them. While we could delay this debate or debate, we are not likely to get much closer to what we are assessing or what you are assessing in order to bring together best. It would be very difficult, or I don't believe, to ever get everyone to be happy, as someone said. Of course, I will support our proposal because I think it is proposed according to what we want to do and how we want to lead this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Josie the Great.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. In view of the promise of the already appointed member of the Internal Policy Committee that, in order to avoid the procedural complications of the contested amendment to Article 7 of this Act, they will not withdraw, as they will prepare a new appropriate amendment, which is not, before the meeting of the National Assembly, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia cannot receive my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u69	Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! I'll vote against the law myself. Today I also signed a petition for support against the abolition of the Ministry of Culture. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is already referred to in Article 5, at the outset, states that the State is concerned about the preservation of natural wealth and cultural heritage and creates opportunities for a coherent civilisation is not the cultural development of Slovenia. Because of the symbolic importance of culture for our country and for the Slovenian people, it would be good for the Ministry of Culture to remain independent. This is a bad sign, a bad sign before the holiday of Slovenian culture, right at the beginning of the European Year of Culture, the European Capital of Culture in Maribor and partner cities. I think that this is a bad sign for the cultural prospects in this mandate as well. However, if you have already decided to join three ministries, at least you would have pleaded for it, but I don't think it is possible under the rules of procedure that this ministry should be called at least the Ministry of Culture, Education, Science and Sport. As I say, I will vote against the law and against the abolition of the independence of the Ministry of Culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support this law because the Government has not found that the law needs any adjustments, nor has the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly found that any correction is needed. This is said to be compatible with the internal law and to be consistent with other laws. If that were not the case, there should be an unconstitutional amendment on the table at this point, which means that all formal conditions are met to decide on this law. The difference can only be political. This is said to be the one on the one hand who for some reason supports the solution in marriage and the one who opposes the law. This is a fact in this case. However, it is also full of communication, because, despite the fact that we had the Ministry of Culture in this mandate, it was taken away from the Ministry by EUR 70 million of European funds, it has substantially reduced the budget, which in fact means that it does not really matter whether there is a Minister for Culture or not, but it is important what makes it possible to do what the programme allows. You downloaded this from these funds and distributed it for other purposes. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] But when you've been quoting me so excited all day, I said at the same college that it doesn't make sense to put a law on the agenda that we don't even know if there's a consensus for it. There was no agreement, because the vote was followed by a mandate-holder for whom this law was prepared and voted down smoothly. In this case, when we are now, we must do something [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] and I also note that the conditions for this law are met. [[...]] That's why I'm going to back you up.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u73	Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I'll support the marriage. It would be good to explain our voice, not something else. So let me explain it this way: "kadia judges - kadiya sues." We are still being tried by judges who do not belong to the interior ministry. The D.A. is part of the judiciary. Someone taught me. Yeah, where? That's not true. Chapter 4 of the Constitution lists everything from the National Assembly, government, defence and so on and is even a separate judiciary from the prosecution. The court is under f, the prosecution is under Mr. I think I can still read, I hope. And one thing is, the notariat and the attorney general is part of the judiciary. The prosecution, however, is independent, within the framework of the law. And there's something else you need to say. Look. But today, when Mr. Zalar runs the police, the prosecution, the judiciary, everything is under him, he's set it all up for the next five years, but that's nothing constitutionally controversial? Oh, yeah? Let's be a little more serious. You know, if it were the way you say it, or as individuals say it, a person would still fall for it, but all you have to do is look at the constitution and practice, and you see that that's not the case. So if the powers of the Justice Minister in relation to the prosecution, which is independent, which the police must be subordinate to, the criminal work, that is, the prosecution and not the other way around, we will do nothing about it. Moreover, improved operation if the prosecutor gets even more opportunities to have a criminal as an "assistant", I will say in the pronunciations, for an effective job. Not to say the D.A.'s going under the police. Damn it! Acid soup isn't "plumbing." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! I must say, I will support the marriage. Also because I have been persuaded to support some of the arguments put forward by the debaters on this side, say Mr Jaklič, as far as the prosecution is concerned. I'm sorry, Mr. Jakič. Someone today mentioned Prešern and quoted him; indeed, he created much — without the Ministry of Culture. It should be said at this point that the Ministry of Culture does not abolish itself, but, like the other three ministries and the other three government departments, these departments combine to make more resources for creators and less for cultural bureaucracy. About the D.A.'s office. According to the Constitution, this prosecution is to be tried under justice. The 8th sub-section of the state regulation is the prosecution and the 7th is the judiciary. Besides, how does it work in practice? Who's directing the procedures? The D.A.! Things are connected, in practice things are already working in the same way as they should in an administrative sense. However, that the prosecution is an independent branch, even after the constitution, is likely clear to everyone in this Chamber. Last but not least: you also had a similar solution in the text that you coordinated with a mandate-holder who did not get the appropriate number of votes in the National Assembly, there were 42 votes. Now there are 50 votes in favour of the coalition commitment, and that is the essential difference between why it is necessary to adopt the law as soon as possible so that the government can act as quickly as possible when it is appointed. So the point is why I'm going to support this marriage. In our neighbouring country, the Republic of Croatia had elections on the same day as we had in the Republic of Slovenia on December 4th, the government was named in the neighbouring Republic on December 23rd. I think it is high time, colleagues and colleagues, for Slovenia to get the government, to get an operational government, and that this agony, which we have been in for a while, has stopped, so I will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u77	Thank you. Any other explanation for the voice? There's more, so I'll ask you again if you sign up. But I would ask that you do not use the explanation as a replica of what has already been said in the explanations, but rather as an explanation of vote. Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u78	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I understand your explanation for not agreeing with the proposal to abolish the Ministry of Culture. I myself have worked very hard to keep this ministry, but by explaining to the coalition partners that it will only be about bringing ministries together, not about abolishing them, and by including in our coalition contract a large part of the cultural programme, which is a qualitative one that thinks of all areas, I also agreed, because I think that in the first place Slovenia needs a government, it needs a team that will actively start solving all the problems that plague Slovenia. As one of the signatories to this coalition treaty, I will certainly make sure that this cultural programme, which is enshrined in the Treaty, is also implemented. But I wonder why this concern for culture is now, when I have repeatedly observed in the previous period that Slovenian culture is devoted to very little space. I have talked several times about the fact that I was very disappointed last year at the state celebration when we celebrated the 20th anniversary of the Slovenian independent state. There was a Slovenian song at this celebration! I am sure that this coalition will implement this programme, as enshrined in the Coalition Treaty, in Slovenia there will be a lot of culture, quality culture, including patriotism and preservation of Slovenian language and Slovenian culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u79	Thank you. Mrs. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all of you on my behalf, too! Given that I am one of the new Members and Members of the National Assembly, I must say that I am very disappointed that, under one of the first laws we are voting on, it is doubtful whether it is in conformity with the Constitution or not. We have heard more legal opinions saying that such a law is inconsistent with the Constitution. If I have correctly understood the debaters before me, even the President of the National Assembly has recently agreed or had a dilemma as to whether such a proposal is in accordance with the Constitution or not. I am truly disappointed that today I am faced with having to make decisions about a law that I do not know whether it is in conformity with the Constitution or not. Mr. Gorenak said he didn't know why we were afraid. I am only afraid that, given that this, we can say, unconstitutional proposal so support, I fear only what you have in mind that you will achieve this. That's the first reason I can't support this marriage. About the culture, why the independent ministry, there were so many things already said and reasons in the direction why we need this ministry to say just that: if Mr Gorenak correctly calculated that this law brings 504,000 euros in savings, that about 800 million, as you predict you will save them with a balance – I think that 84,000 euros for the payment of the Minister of Culture of this Slovenian public finances will also survive.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u81	Thank you. Mrs. Janja Klasinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u82	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I would also like to join in thinking about those colleagues and colleagues who today have pointed out that saving at all costs is not smart. I welcome the restriction on the number of ministries, and so was our initial proposal. But here you are wishing that you might like to appear to the Slovenian public, who will greet a small number of ministries, say, embark on some association, I will say, pears and apples at home. Tell me because I really don't understand: education, science, culture and sport. Science and technology are matters which, in my logical opinion, would be more likely to belong to the Ministry of the Economy. This creativity, which Slovenia urgently needs, would be linked there. Education and sports have been united for many years, and I find this somehow logical. But culture, as all previous speakers have said, is such a Slovenian tradition that we cannot compare it with other practices elsewhere in Europe. However, if we look at this subordination of the State Prosecutor's Office or the Prosecutor's Office now to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, this exists only in those countries of the European Union which have a unified Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior together and then, of course, there is concern for the prosecution. As for another matter, to draw economic diplomacy out of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is very unwise. This is a key area for all foreign ministries in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u84	Thank you. Of course, I will vote for the law because it is reasonable and is what Slovenia needs right now. Slovenian cultures will certainly not defend or maintain well-paid bureaucrats. Perhaps one of them really threatens the merger of ministries, but it does not in any way threaten the Slovenian culture or those who actually create in culture. It's about them. It is up to all of us, depending on our actions, how much money they will really spend, how much money they will receive for individual programs, for individual people, for Slovenian culture, for cultural heritage. This is what the criterion is, not whether it is in a specific ministry or combined with education and some others into a single ministry. Speaking of education, also in the interest of culture, it is certain that as many people as possible will receive the best possible education. These six ministers, which are repealing this law, are costing so much that they can grant about 400 scholarships per 100 euros to those who may not be able to receive this education without it. Keep that in mind, too. And that's the end of it. In any case, keep in mind that money needs to be taken somewhere and that Slovenian entrepreneurship needs to be burdened. For without strengthening the economy, entrepreneurship as an engine of the economy, there will be only a lot of empty promises and unfulfilled plans. Those who have even referred to the campaign as entrepreneurs should be particularly aware of this, their responsibilities to us and to future generations.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that in this coalition agreement, as the special law states, the Ministry, the Minister without a license for Slovenians is in place and around the world. Some of you have forgotten about this population or are very eager to forget it very quickly. I hope that you will even have the opportunity in this mandate when we discuss what has been the wish of so many relatives in place and around the world, both outside and in this Parliament, when we organise each year in Parliament, I think that the eleventh meeting of the relatives and the cousins, that they will also have two representatives of their own: one from the interior, one from the world. This means a change in the Constitution as electoral legislation, where 60 or more Members and Members are required. I hope that you will then decide for the benefit of Slovenia, Slovenia and Slovenians, those who live here, at home, and those who live outside, because they can contribute significantly more than they carry. They'll carry nothing away, but they'll be able to bring it both in knowledge and in capital. As far as culture is concerned, perhaps so much, perhaps some minister or minister in this ministry can do a lot of damage. That there has been a great deal of damage in this area, we have listened for the last three years, especially through the European Capital of Culture, to what has been happening in this area unheard of. In fact, it's almost impossible to believe. With two bad laws, the minister came, did not go through Parliament – I am sure that it will be significantly better under this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u87	Tamara Vont.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u88	I'm not very sensitive, but I'm Tamara. It's Serbian. I would like to explain my voice myself, especially with the additions I would like to afford something similar to all my colleagues, but I think I will just stick to saying my way. It's true, I'm stretching, "pig" isn't a sour parish, which I really agree with. Therefore, I can also tell you that, in the previous term, all European funds in culture have not been spent, they have not been spent during the time of Minister Simoniti – we know from which government he is. Once again, I would like to say that in the previous mandate, culture has been given the greatest resources since its independence. That's it. To talk about that even now, when this ministry will be united in some kind of ministry, to mention that it is the last place, after sports, after all I am a culturer, even though I may sometimes appear uncultured, but this is for the sake of another culture. [[...]] In short, I mean, I don't understand, I just don't understand, it's lame that the argument of this law is that this ministry is united into some super ministry, and which superminister or superminister will just hope to take over. I hoped — because this one must be crazy! Excuse me. I would very much like to meet this man myself, and I also say that Slovenians have kept culture in place. Culture! And that culture is here at home, Slovenian culture is here at home, it is centered here, and it travels from here all over the world. And let's give it to, I mean, understand! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-26-SDZ6-Izredna-04.ana.u89	Thank you. According to these explanations, we are richer for a culinary knowledge that we all seem to agree on. Does anyone else want to explain their voice? If we didn't, we'd go to the vote. Please check for voting devices. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 37. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also the 4th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues.
