ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 19th meeting of the National Assembly convened by the President of the National Assembly pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Mr Borut Pahor. The meeting was also attended by representatives of the Government, all present, and I welcome the Minister and colleague. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 19th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You have received the draft agenda today, on 6 November 2012, by reference to the meeting and on the draft agenda, we will decide in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have not received any proposals for an extension of the agenda, so I propose to the assembly that the agenda for today's meeting be set as referred to. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of the voting apparatus before this. I see everything's fine. We are starting the vote on the agenda. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 1. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda of the 19th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, that is to say, the proposal for a decision on the request of the State assembly, that the Constitutional Court of the Republic take a more ardent decision, but that the application of the Slovenian State Holding Act would be delayed or the result of its return to the referendum could lead to a opposing effect. On 30 October 2012, the Group of 30 Members and Members, with the first signed by Janije Möderndorfer, submitted an application for an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Slovenian State Holding Act adopted by the National Assembly on 23 October 2012. In relation to this request, the 47 Members and Members Group, with first signed by Jozet Tank, submitted, pursuant to Article 21(1) of the Law on Referendum and on the People's Initiative of the Council, a proposal for a decision on the request of the National Assembly to the Constitutional Court to decide whether the suspension of the application of the Law on the Slovenian State Holding Act or its rejection at the referendum could have had negative consequences. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mr Jožet Tank, representative of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you! On Tuesday, 30 October 2012, at 23.45 p.m., a request for a referendum was made for a referendum on the Slovenian State Holding Act and a request for a referendum on the so-called bad bank law. As far as the hands were concerned, everything was fine. However, the problems arose later when the verification of the compliance of the two submitted requirements with the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, as well as with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, began. One of the requests was the submission of real signatures, signatures by hand, and the other mostly photocopy of signatures. In this case, as regards the photocopied signatures, the entire legal profession was uniform in order to prevent the request for a referendum from continuing with the photocopying of the procedure, and the President of the National Assembly decided to reject the request for a referendum on the so-called bad bank. This decision was apparently also taken by the signatories to the request for a referendum. Although the Head of the Positive Slovenia Group tried to comment on parliamentary practice, he was also the President of Positive Slovenia, Mr Zoran Jankovic, although he was only in the National Assembly for a month or several months. It is not known to me that parliamentary practice would be different in the procedures for requests for referendums and that signatures of their own hand have always been submitted. When it became clear that there would be no referendum, the President of the Republic, Dr Danilo Türk, stepped on the scene and, according to what has already been seen, proposed another solution that would bring this bad move of the coalition back to life. The government called on the President of the Republic to withdraw the Bad Bank Act and the Slovenian State Holding Act or to postpone their application. Some lawyers have called this proposal, this initiative by the President of the Republic, ridiculous. I guess she's funny because she's impossible. Although we received a letter from the President of the Republic a day later, this famous phrase is missing in this letter. On both occasions, the President of the Republic called on both sides, the Government and the opposition to step back and reopen the procedure. Interestingly, the President of the Republic has only called on the Government and the opposition, and he has forgotten about the members of the coalition as if they were not in the National Assembly and in this country. We really support the government, not everyone and always, but we do exist and represent the majority in this so-called temple of democracy. It is obvious that the President of the Republic missed the summer event and did not see that, in fact, in the areas of preparation of both laws, there was an intense situation during the summer holidays and that the laws in the National Assembly were processed according to business standards and in the content of the majority vote. So there's probably no comment on that. There have also been reports in the media of suspected controversial signatures, referring to MEP Meliti Župevc. At that time, the President of the National Assembly, acting on an official duty, would have to carry out all procedures in order to carry out all doubts as to the correctness of the request submitted. That didn't happen, and I don't think that's good. Later, when we considered the proposal for a college review of a large majority of the proposed groups to require a graphological analysis on the General Police Administration, it did not support, which I do not think is a good sign. This proposal was then included in the request for constitutional review. What will be the decision of the Constitutional Court is another question, but if there were reasons for inclusion in the Constitutional Opinion to verify these signatures, there are also those reasons for the review at the General Police Administration. I think there will be more to be done in this area. Although we have no reservations about the referendums, the procedural conditions must first be met for the referendum or referendums. There is a high probability that the procedural condition for this remaining requirement is also not met. However, we also have serious concerns about the substantive merits of this request for a referendum. The Slovenian State Holding Act, which improves the management and management of state property, is one of the five key measures to remedy the country's poor state of affairs. Others are flexicurity in the labour market, sustainability of the pension system, resolution of the banking system and consolidation of public finances, which includes several measures, including at least a fiscal rule, the adoption of a fiscal rule and the entry into the constitution and, of course, the reduction of budgetary deficits in budgets for the next two years and beyond. Thus, the Slovenian State Holding Act is one of the key measures that brings a whole range of short-term and, consequently, long-term effects. This law foresees that we will have only one national asset manager, only one who will represent the state in corporate decision-making processes, thus eliminating chaos when several state-owned state-owned property managers in the same assemblies have made different decisions and therefore there are no conditions for maximising the effects of such management. We will have or will get a better estimate of the value of the assets, which will be made according to a uniform methodology. So in the congregations, the country will have a single and one voice, and also with regard to the appointment of overseers or others, the process will be very unified here. The decision-making of the country, for example in dividend cases, will also be uniform. Therefore, liability in this case will not be divulged and, therefore, we believe that it will be possible to raise income from the management or disposal of assets to a significantly higher level. This objective, i.e. improving governance and improving returns, is not a problem for the coalition and should probably not be for the opposition, as we are all aware that a whole bunch of stakeholders who anchored themselves on behalf of the State on various executive and supervisory authorities and the country did not have much of such action. This objective, however, is so called better governance, certainly enforceable or achievable. For example, out of an estimated value of more than €8 billion, some are talking about even significantly higher amounts, the state has only a few 10 million dividends, less than €40 million. You can see for yourself that this is virtually nothing to this extent, although in many cases it is even for businesses that are monopolies. However, given that the country has carried out a whole series of recapitalisations during the same period last year, where several times more euros, millions of euros, of returns have been confused, we see that management of this state property has not been at all. In the case of recapitalisation, I can mention Adrio Airways, where EUR 40.50 million went, we can mention NKBM, where some EUR 47 million went to state property, we can mention Pekko 6 million, Nafto Lendava 10 million, NLB 243 million. This is all state property, and these recapitalisations were all realized last year. We've given about 10 times as much to rehabilitate the state property as we've received in the same period from this state property. Better management of the state property of these companies, which are partly or mostly owned by the State, also means significantly more payments to the pension fund, including to the development of companies where it will also be able to re-employ. However, it is undeniable that the Capital Investment Management Agency has not carried out its task. This can be seen from the asset management data on incomes and recapitalisations. Nor did the Agency draw up a state-owned management programme within the legal time limit. The Agency had exceptional difficulties in appointing, for example, the director of the New Ljubljana Bank when we were practically eight months without an operational director. We had someone who didn't want to be, and he was doing this function for eight months, and it's clear that the conditions for this bank's operation were not optimized. We also believe that the economy will improve, that is what we are taking, and therefore we also propose that if it has already been found that the procedural conditions for the call for a referendum on the Slovenian State Holding Act have been met in some way, we will also justify our proposal for a preliminary ruling by the Constitutional Court for these reasons. As it is said, we have also proposed that the Constitutional Court verify the fulfilment of the procedural conditions for the referendum. I therefore also propose that the vote, which will take place in a few hours, support the proposal for a constitutional review of the request for a referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decision was considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. In order to present the report to the committee, I give the floor to the mags. Damjani Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u4	Thank you, Chairman of the National Assembly. I warmly welcome the Minister of Finance and the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and, of course, the fellow Members and Members of Parliament. At its 35th urgent meeting, the Home Labour Committee, namely the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, considered the Proposal for a Decision on the request of the National Assembly to the Constitutional Court to decide whether, by deferring the implementation of the Law on Slovenian State Holding or by rejecting it at the referendum, the consequences of the State Assembly's treatment and adoption could have arisen by a group of Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. The Chairman of the Committee briefly presented the chronology of the developments concerning the Slovenian State Holding Act and explained that it was 30. Ten. On the basis of Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 12, in conjunction with Article 12a of the Law on the Referendum and on the Human Initiative, the Group of Members and Members, together with the first signed Janie Möderndorfer, submitted an application for an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on that law. On 5 November 2012, the Coalition's parliamentary groups submitted a proposal for a decision to the National Assembly to the Constitutional Court to decide whether, by deferring the application of the Slovenian State Holding Act or by rejecting it at the referendum, there could be unconstitutional consequences. In accordance with that, the Committee first decided on a proposal for a decision of the coalition groups. In the course of the debate, the Committee began its consideration of the request of the Group of Members and Members, with the first signed by Janije Möderndorfer, for the invitation to a legislative referendum, which also addressed the proposal for a decision of the coalition groups on the request of the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutional consequences. Thus, in the debate, the representative of the motioners, Jani Möderndorfer, briefly presented their request for a legislative referendum and stressed that the law is also considered by some legal experts to be constitutionally controversial. The Minister of Finance briefly presented the procedure for the adoption of the law in question and stressed the need to take measures to stabilise public finances, among which the important place is to renovate and improve governance of state assets. The increase in the price of indebtedness for Slovenia indicates that the notification of the referendums was not exactly positive. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented their written opinion and said that the request met all the formal conditions, was submitted on time, in writing and was reasoned. The Committee then discussed and, in the introductory supplementary explanation of the proposal, the representative of the Magi proposal. Marko Pogačnik briefly presented the key points of the proposal, highlighting in particular the consequences of delaying or rejecting the law at the referendum. In the event of failure to enforce the law, the constitutional right to a social and legal state will be jeopardised. The implementation of the entire chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provide for the State regime of the Republic of Slovenia and also for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, could be seriously compromised by the consequences and the situation. In the debate, the proponents of the Proposal for a Decision on the request of the National Assembly to the Constitutional Court to determine whether the suspension of the application of the Law on Slovenian State Holding or its rejection at the referendum could have constitutional consequences. They supported the proposal because they considered that the National Assembly had the right to take advantage of the legal option given to it by the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative and therefore requires the Constitutional Court's judgement. Proponents of the request for a referendum stressed that the proposal for a decision on the constitutionality requirement would not be supported because they considered the law to be poor and non-transparent. The decision to request a referendum was not easy, but it was signed by all the signatories in their own hands and with responsibility, knowing that it was their constitutional right. They also pointed out that doubts about the signatures of the chapters are unacceptable. The Committee also received a proposal from the amendment of the Committee of Positive Slovenia. The committee didn't accept it. As no amendments were adopted to the draft decision at the meeting, the Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the draft decision be adopted in the text tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u5	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation, I would like to take the floor with the representative of the Government, Dr. Janez Šuštersič, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u6	Dear Members, Members, Vice President! The government has also repeatedly expressed its opinion that if there is a request for a referendum that could not be prevented by some agreements, we believe that such a request for a referendum should be decided by the Constitutional Court. That is why, of course, we welcome this initiative, the proposal presented today. I would like to say two things in particular. One thing is the efforts made so far by the Government to ensure that laws are passed and that referendums are avoided. And secondly, what's at stake with this request for a referendum. I will try to explain that the consequences of the mere submission of a request for a referendum, which can still be withdrawn today, are much worse than anything that stems from the provisions of the law itself and may, in the opinion of the opposition, be wrong and not best solved. As far as the procedure is concerned, we in the summers removed the Slovenian State Holding Act from the hearing in the National Assembly or postponed the hearing because it was threatened by a referendum by members of Positive Slovenia. This law was coordinated this summer. We have changed a number of things in the law on the basis of comments made within the working group, as well as on the basis of some views or opinions of the OECD and other experts. When the unions tabled a referendum immediately after the adoption of the law, we talked to them, reached an agreement with them, and this request for a referendum was withdrawn. When the Council of State made a request for a referendum, after failing to comply with the veto requirement, we explained it to them, they listened to us, and in the end they did not vote in favour of the referendum. When all of this failed, and when, according to the President of Positive Slovenia, the trade unions, those who submitted a request for a referendum on a bad bank, found that their signatures were not sufficient, informed the President of Positive Slovenia and Positive Slovenia, after not mentioning this at any time earlier as an option, submitted a request for a referendum, which is legitimate, but a reminder of hiding behind other people, to send strawed men into battle to do what you do not hope to do on an open stage. The other thing I want to say is what the consequences of these referendums are. I'll only mention one thing that's materially evident. Today or yesterday evening, information was published on one of the credit rating agencies, where they say that they have given Slovenia due to a request for a referendum, that is the only reason they state it, put it on a negative watch list and say that if the Constitutional Court does not refuse the referendum, Slovenia's credit rating will be reduced by a few steps. That's the only reason. It is not justified by the content of what is decided in this law, but is justified only by the fact that the opposition can block any law by referendum, telling everyone that there is simply no change in Slovenia. This is the reason why I am talking about the fact that the submission of the referendum itself is problematic, lowers Slovenia's credit rating and has very serious consequences that the applicants are obviously unaware of. No matter what happens to this request, whether it will be withdrawn or rejected by the Constitutional Court or eventually we may even receive a referendum on this law. What is the result of such a reduction in the credit rating? Very quickly, because time is running out; for the first time, we are approaching an assessment when our banks are no longer able to apply state bonds to the European Central Bank as a guarantee for liquidity assets. This means that banks will be given the only source of liquidity they have at this point in time, and in addition to state deposits, there will be an ever smaller saving of people in banks. The commitments made by this country will be practically worthless. We can guarantee any investment project, and the question is whether this guarantee will be credible enough for someone to lend us money on the basis of this state guarantee. And thirdly, what we're most concerned about is 10 billion assets at the holding company. [[...]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] hard-core because of what you're doing right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Following the presentation of the positions of the groups of Members, the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Franz Jurša, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u8	Madam Vice-President, thank you very much for saying so, thank you to the Minister with her co-worker. Of course, you too, your respectable colleagues, as well as the others present in the hall. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we are firmly aware that the situation on the political and legislative platform in the past few months and by the end of the year is crucial for the continued fate of Slovenia and the "mildness of its citizens and citizens". Therefore, in our Group of Members, we regret that neither Slovenian policy nor the Slovenian professional and lay public have the will to act constructively and responsibly in making decisions that are at some point crucial to Slovenia and its progress. We all know very well that our country is in a situation where it must take decisive measures to stabilise public finances, reform the labour market, including the pension system, and not least, it must strengthen the banking sector. All of this after the creation of a favourable climate for economic recovery. The Slovenian State Holding Act is only part of a comprehensive necessary package of reforms to stabilise public finances. Within this package, it is essential to improve the management of state assets, which must be reflected in an effective situation in order to achieve the highest value of state assets. If we succeed, this also represents one of the positive signals of the international public, foreign financial institutions and foreign investors, that something positive is happening in Slovenia in terms of effective management of state assets, effective creation of favourable conditions for relaunching the economy and consequently a successful correction of the situation in all segments of social life. Therefore, it is at this point of time the priority of this law to establish effective, responsible and transparent governance of state property. This will certainly be done by the central management of state property by professional, ethical and morally competent people, who will be committed to acting with full responsibility for their conduct, in accordance with the general principles of good governance and in accordance with the adopted documents, to which we will also give consent to Members and Members of our National Assembly. In addition, this law also contains a guarantee of stability and long-term sustainability of the pension fund, as it contains two important provisions. One is that it continues to maintain the current obligation to transfer EUR 50 million by the Capital Company of Pension and Disability Insurance to the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute, which has a defined purpose for the coordination of pensions. In addition, it is important that the capital investment or capital investment of the holding be allocated to the capital investment of the holding company from the sale of the 10 % share of the purchase. In the light of the foregoing, we believe that the referendum on this law is not in place. Almost the same time that we were able to welcome the decision to withdraw from the referendum initiative by the original signature collector for the referendum, i.e. the Slovenian Energy Workers' Union, there was news that they were investing [[There's a thunder.]] with dubious signatures by 30 Members of the Parliament and Members of the National Assembly. We regret this step by our colleagues, and we hope that the Constitutional Court will wisely judge that the enforcement of the law of the new way of managing state property would result in irreparable damage to our public finances, further deterioration of the reputation and a fall in the confidence of foreign countries in our country. And that was a warning from your fellow officers and colleagues up there about your conduct.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u9	Thank you very much. New Slovenia Group, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u10	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! Most likely, no one will be able to disagree with me about the following claim that the State has property and is obliged to manage it. And that the current management of state property was poor and that we are the first and most obliged in Parliament to improve this situation. That's exactly what we're trying to do with the state holding company. Today, a number of different agencies operate state property. I said it was bad because these agencies are acting out of harmony, often against each other. We are trying to introduce a uniform management of state property with the Slovenian state holding company; we are trying to get everything under a single roof, according to our household. This way of managing it will certainly be more transparent, but most importantly, the line of responsibility will be much clearer. Because I come from the countryside, you probably won't mind a comparison. I understand this roughly so that if we have a farm, it is better for the farm to have one master, but not to have three masters on the farm. In the current system, when we don't know who's drinking and who's paying, it's very easy to drink more beer on a foreign account. Due to the current opacity and inefficiency of the management of state property in Novi Slovenija, we support state holding because we hope that this situation will improve. Now, at the request of the referendum. The opposition and those who signed this request for a referendum are among the key reasons for this referendum, or you are saying that the sale of state property will take place in order to obtain the location of state property. Of course this is about intimidation. I will even dare say that this is an unrealistic fact; but if the facts are not true, this is still a lie, according to the household. Why? Because of the fact that we are able to dispose of state property today and that it is not clear that the National Assembly will be excluded from this decision. It is clear to me that the opposition from this referendum will try to make a referendum on the government, that no arguments will be taken into account in this referendum campaign and that if this state holding were to fall, there would be no counter-constitutional consequences. This is also our goal and our efforts to address the Constitutional Court at the final instance in order to prevent this unnecessary and harmful referendum. Finally, I'd say I find some interesting facts. If you have carefully read the records of the coordinations that took place over the summer, you can find that those who requested this referendum did not have any major comments on the state holding, with the exception of the appointment of the Supervisory Board. That's very interesting information. Somehow, I doubt that this is the thing that has caused our opposition colleagues so much trouble that they have demanded a referendum, so I see their request in the light of the two objectives they have set themselves. The first objective is to disable the government and the second objective is to divert attention at this time from the extremely unpleasant affairs of the President of the Republic regarding the pardons of the "drugers". This is what I think those two key reasons why the opposition just before the laborers, 15 minutes before 12 hours ago, decided to submit this request, and these things probably also explain the technical difficulties they had in submitting this referendum request. Because if we were prepared for these things, then it probably wouldn't have happened, but because the orders and instructions came at the last minute, there were technical problems. As I said, I hope that this unnecessary and harmful referendum will be decided by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u12	Mr. Tonin, I'm glad you know what our goals are, because you never speak of yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u13	Here you go, Mrs. Bratusek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u14	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! At the 7th ordinary meeting on 23 October 2012, you reaffirmed the Slovenian State Holding Act; the reason for the veto of the State Council. You reconfirmed the law despite the professional public's concerns and the opposition's determination to enforce such a law. When adopting the law, the law's proponents stressed that the Slovenian State Holding Act was a law that would contribute to a more transparent and cost-effective management of the country's capital investments, to distinguish the principle of political responsibility from the professional management of these investments, and to make it clear that the capital investment management strategy and the classification of those investments would have to be adopted, which capital investments would be sold and how much of these investments would be sold. However, the solutions that were finally adopted go in the opposite direction. The appointment of the Supervisory Board of Holding allows policy to have a large or enormous impact on the management of companies owned by the Slovenian State Holding. The business of this holding company will therefore be fully subordinated to the government policy and the ruling coalition. Such management is highly politicized. This law establishes direct control over state-owned companies and accumulates its power in the economy and thus rightly raises doubts about the Government's intentions and its involvement in the management of state-owned companies. The holding will have the property of the country in accordance with the principles of economic law, as if it were a private enterprise. Holding will not be responsible to the National Assembly and will thus completely avoid parliamentary supervision. In addition, the Law of the National Assembly restricts the decision to set the strategic objectives of the State, since the management acts provided for in this Law and the way they are adopted largely undermine the influence of Parliament and the public on the design of ownership policy. This will also completely break the responsibility of the elected authority, if any, and of the Slovenian state-owned holding companies as the holder of the capital investment management of the country. In our view, the law is not transparent and the management of the holding is thus exposed to a conflict of interest and to a corruption risk. Holding will not be subject to provisions on access to information of a public nature, which means that transparency of management will be disabled. Holding as such offers a number of possibilities for circuitry, concealment of profits and mixing with state property. In addition, money from the sale of state assets will be poured within SDH in a completely non-transparent manner and there will be no government budget revenue, which should be consistent with the constitution of the State and citizens. The law is also contrary to the outcome of the 2007 referendum, which prevented the sale of the share of the Insurance Office of Triglav and also to the purpose of the Property Recast Act, which provided for the ownership of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office at the Triglav Insurance Institute to ensure the long-term stability of the pension register, is said to be pensionable. In addition, some legal experts have warned that the law is constitutional or contrary to Articles 146 and 148 of the Constitution. The State holding should not be the owner of the state property, but merely its manager. However, all the income of the holding company from the sale of the capital investments of the country should be the income of the country or state budget. And that is exactly what he was or is still our proposal for a law on the management of state property – management in one place and ownership where it is today is said in the country and in the citizens. This leaves the country between €9 billion and €13 billion; unfortunately, even today we do not know the exact numbers. Since, in our opinion, the Slovenian State Holding Act will not contribute to a more transparent and cost-effective management of the country's capital investments, but is only the way to highly politicised management of state-owned enterprises and the non-transparent sale of common assets, we have decided to put forward a request for a subsequent legislative referendum. The latter shows that this Government has neither good solutions nor good intentions to solve the problems facing Slovenia. The decision to request a referendum was not easy, but we all signed it on our own hand and responsibly, bearing in mind that this is our constitutional right. We have also decided to submit a request because this ruling coalition does not take into account the opposition or the professional public and not the other state authorities or the Council of State. Moreover, it is more than obvious that the Government is afraid of this referendum and will do everything to prevent it. Let us draw attention to the fact of the electoral initiative, or the Chemical, Non-metallic and Rubber Industry Union, which were prevented from supplementing their initiative with missing signatures within the legal time limit. Not to mention the disappearance of a certain number of signatures to be submitted by the unions, which sheds an extremely poor light on the credibility of this National Assembly and the competent ministry in the conduct of procedures for the exercise of the constitutional right to referendum. The last actions only strengthen us in the belief that the ruling coalition is truly afraid of the will of citizens and citizens. In Positive Slovenia, we do not challenge the ruling coalition of legitimate and legitimate rights that, if it considers that our request would lead to an alleged constitutional situation, the Constitutional Court should be required to assess constitutionality. However, we would like to point out that the requirement for a constitutional assessment is extremely weak. Both economic and legal arguments, in our view, do not hold up serious judgment. In doing so, we would like to point out that, in the case of the assessment of the eligibility of the referendum on pension reform, the Constitutional Court has rejected much, much more convincing and reasoned arguments. On the basis of the law relating to the exercise of constitutional rights to a referendum, we would like to point out, however, that the President of the National Assembly, who, on the basis of the law on the exercise of constitutional rights to a referendum, is conducting a procedure based on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, has found that the requirement meets everything by law and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that the procedure for the invitation to a referendum continues. But you're whistle-blowing at all of this. In addition, the College of the President of the National Assembly, at its 30th meeting, discussed a proposal for a decision by the SDS Group of Members, which challenged the credibility of our signatures and thus alleged non-compliance with the legal conditions and, consequently, possible unconstitutionality. The College rejected the proposal for a decision and the applicant's argument. All parliamentary groups voted against the said decision, with the exception of the proposers. Therefore, we believe that the allegations of alleged unconstitutionalities summarised under the SDS proposal are completely non-creditable and, in our opinion, unworthy of this National Assembly. Dearly respected, the Slovenian State Holding Act is far from reform law. This is a fact and this is what the Standard & Poor's credit rating agency writes in its message today. I quote: "Even though the Constitutional Court will find that the referendum initiative is constitutional and the referendum will take place, its outcome remains uncertain. If the referendum were to succeed, the creation of a legal person who manages state property in one place would be delayed for at least a year, although we believe in the credit rating agency that Slovenia could manage state property even under the existing regime." Forget that when you talk about what the credit card says. Standard & Poor's also notes that the possibility of referendum blocking the Slovenian State Holding Act significantly reinforces uncertainty about government capacity to design and implement structural reforms, mentions fiscal consolidation, pension and health reform, labour market reform and the rationalisation of the state administration, and adds – which are significantly more important to Slovenian macroeconomic stability than the Slovenian State Holding Act. Ladies and gentlemen, the consolidation of public finances, pension and health reform, labour market reform and the rationalisation of state administration, these are reforms that are significantly more important to Slovenian macroeconomic stability than the Slovenian State Holding Act. It's in the same report quoted today by the Minister of Finance. Ladies and gentlemen of the government and in the ruling coalition, take these words of the credit card house very seriously and finally find out what will save our Slovenia!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u16	Dear Prime Minister, Honourable Representative of the Government, colleague, colleague! In the introduction, on behalf of the SDS Group, I would like to make arguments to assess the constitutionality of the consequences of the rejection or rejection of the Slovenian State Holding Act at the referendum. The Republic of Slovenia is in a situation where it has to take decisive measures to stabilise public finances, reform the labour market and reform the pension system, and rehabilitate the banking system, and the reform package must also improve governance of state assets. In implementing the Capital Investment Management Act, there are anomalies and contradictory moves that have not led to the maximisation of the value of state assets. Due to the unaccepted strategies and other strategic documents in the years of the management plans, there has been an even greater lack of transparency in the country's capital investment management system than before the establishment of the Capital Investment Management Agency. In order to address this and to achieve effective management of all state investments in one place, the Slovenian State Holding Act should be adopted, which, as part of the reforms, will be able to contribute to improving the economic environment and stabilising public finances. If reform measures and the Slovenian State Holding Act are not implemented or implemented in due time, we do not rule out the possibility that Slovenia will have to apply for international financial assistance. The Slovenian State Holding Act ensures to a greater extent the exercise of the constitutional right to social security, including the right to a pension, compared to the existing regime. The Slovenian State Holding Act contains provisions according to which the inflows to the pension register will be increased after the law is in force, as Kad will have to order the PPIZ by 30 September at the latest 50 million euros, primarily for the coordination of pensions. In addition, the remittances will be transferred by the Slovenian State Holding to provide additional funds to the PPIZ by Kad 10 % of the purchase that will be received from the holding for the sale of its assets. The provisions of the Slovenian State Holding Act thus described in relation to the existing regime, as prescribed by the law on the transformation of a capital company, make it possible to improve the exercise of the right to social security contained in Article 50 of the Constitution. In the event of the failure to enforce the Slovenian State Holding Act, the constitutional right to a legal and social state will be jeopardised, as it will be more difficult in the present difficult financial circumstances to provide funding and thus the necessary financial resources for the payment of the rights to which the beneficiaries are entitled. The provisions of the Slovenian State Holding Act both follow international rules more closely than the existing Capital Investment Management Act. The provisions of Article 153 of the Constitution which requires the harmonisation of legal acts and provides, inter alia, that laws must comply with the generally applicable principles of international law and with the applicable international treaties ratified by the National Assembly. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support such a proposal and request. However, it may also be possible to touch further on what the moves made by the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia and the three Members of Parliament mean. I personally assess that it is a legitimate right that these 30 signatories have done. I estimate that it is extremely political non-hygiene that they decided to do so 5 minutes before 12 o'clock. We all know that the law has been prepared throughout the summer and that the government coalition has reasonably withdrawn it from the agenda at the July session, despite the fact that we are aware that Slovenia has paid dearly for these consequences. Positive Slovenia has never expressed its willingness to request a referendum by Tuesday until 5 minutes until midnight. I believe they were confident that they would do it on their behalf and hide behind the union. The working group, which met during the summer, also worked successfully at the expense of the members of the working group appointed on a proposal from the opposition. This led to technical and substantive improvements in the law. However, I am convinced that the real face of Positive Slovenia and the three Members showed exactly five minutes before the 12th, although their representative said to this working group: "Look, we will not make problems with the State Holding Act, but I expect consensus on one of the most important documents for the design of the classification and strategy for the management of state property." I have had the feeling that all the time these negotiations and formations have been held one fig in my pocket, which has proved to be some kind of opposition practice so far, that it wants to stop and block the solutions that this government is proposing. I personally assess that the consequences of this referendum for Slovenia will be visible or already visible. As the Minister himself said, due to the request for a referendum, credit ratings fall or we are placed on a negative list. Slovenia already feels the consequences, and I expect all supporters of this referendum to feel the consequences in Sunday's elections and that people will be able to decide to support the candidate who supports the reforms, not those who block them. The working group, which met, acted successfully, and this was also recognised by both the opposition and the coalition representatives. It should be pointed out that the Government here was aware of the importance of this law and therefore offered a deadline for cooperation to the opposition, which was not the practice of the previous government. This amendment law, which was adopted at the meeting where this law was adopted, contains a number of comments and recommendations made by the opposition. Unquestionably, lies and deception appear in public that this law brings only bad and nothing good. This law brings more responsible, efficient, transparent governance of state property. It should be pointed out that, on the proposal of the opposition from the original law, a bad bank was excluded in order to take into account that the Capital Society remains a separate legal entity, that the Blue Insurance Company remains a subsidiary of the Capital Society in order to include an anti-corruption clause, that there is a need for the consent of the National Assembly in the interim period from the preparation of the classification and the adoption of the classification so that State property cannot be sold out without the consent of the National Assembly. Today, this existing system allows us, without the consent of the National Assembly, the Capital Society, to at least read in newspapers, to sell shares in Petrol, although this SD party is the most obvious to us that these are our plans, but we all know that the President of the Capital Society's administration is a prominent SD representative, a member of the working group and we read in the media, not only that Petrol is selling, but that they have already found the buyer. The Slovenian State Holding Act, I hope that it will be enforced and adopted, will not allow such a way of working. There are a number of security guards that will prevent the headless sale of state property. If all these complications had not occurred, instead of the request for a referendum, the National Assembly could today discuss the classification that the government must send to the National Assembly if the law is to be enforced within one month. This means that the National Assembly will deal with the most important documents. Slovenia does not yet have a national asset management strategy. We're drowning in the dark. We do not know what to do with sectoral policy, what to do with investment in work. As a result, management is ineffective, poor, the profits of Slovenian state-owned companies are less profitable than those comparable abroad. The Slovenian State Holding Act is one that will also ensure the sustainability and stability of the pension fund on the basis of the coalition contract and the persistence of DeSUS. The law provides that the holding company must pay 10% of Kadu's purchase. This has never happened in Slovenia. This means that the law brings great added value to all pensioners and generations who are slowly approaching this system. Breaking this law also threatens the sustainability and stability of the pension fund. Despite the opposition's saying the opposite, that this will make payments to pensioners for denationalising beneficiaries, that is not the case. Read Article 6 of the Law, which clearly defines the purpose and use of funds. In addition, Article 28, which clearly states that the Capital Society may use its assets exclusively for the purposes laid down in the law. On the other hand, read the report of the Slovenian Indemnity Society, which clearly shows that its assets are sufficient to meet the obligations of denationalisation beneficiaries. It's not fear, it's fear again, spreading lies. I don't understand why the opposition is so against this law. They're probably still banging on their heads today to make such a mistake on Tuesday, because I believe it's more important for them to fail the banking law. Thank God it's not like that. I believe that the banking law is much more important for the rehabilitation of the Slovenian economy than the Slovenian State Holding. However, with these moves, Slovenia is once again losing credibility abroad. Slovenia has made certain promises to [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u17	Wait a minute. The microphone's not working. We'll ask for technical services. He has to work for a tape recorder.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u18	Slovenia is losing credibility. He's still losing credibility on the basis of the opposition. It is important to be aware that Slovenia has not adopted one reform since 2009, despite strong promises. It would be time for us to be aware of that. A colleague from Positive Slovenia earlier said that the professional public had also been followed. Not far. Read what the professional public thinks about the Slovenian State Holding referendum. The full professional public is of the opinion that this law does not fall under the referendum, that it is a political decision to be a matter of professional concern. With this law, which it has proposed, the Government also assumes full responsibility. Most of the disagreements, despite the fact that many of them have been achieved by the working group, were in the process of forming a supervisory board. However, it is necessary to be aware that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for the management of state property, and it is correct that it also has a majority in the supervisory council. But forget it, the opposition also has a representative in the supervisory council. That's not what it was until now. The para-state funds didn't have this option, the AUKN didn't have it. The representative of the Supervisory Board is also a member of the Economic and Social Council. We wanted to make a transparent law that would primarily allow more responsible governance of state property, which would be concentrated in one place. No, you say yours, you decide to block it. I am convinced that there are no substantive reasons for this referendum, but that there are only political reasons. Whatever the case, if this referendum happens, which is bad, I am sure that there will also be reason among people and that people will be aware that Slovenia needs reforms, that holding is part of these reforms and that they will vote in favour. Above all, that all pensioners will also recognize that this law is of great added value to them, a great protector that will ensure the stability and sustainability of the payment of pensions. People also want to be responsible for the operation of state property, and this law allows them to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! Immediately in the introduction, we would like to draw the attention of the Social Democrats to the fact that the Slovenian State Holding Act is not a reform law for the exit from the economic crisis, but a law on the imprudent privatisation of state silver with a view to paying for denationalisation. We therefore call on the President of the Government to withdraw the declaration that it is one of the five key laws for a way out of the crisis, as this once again reduces the credibility of Slovenia in foreign markets and does not make excuses for a cheap sale and a fall in the country's credit ratings, which fall due to the government's failed economic policy and the rejected reforms of the former government, to which he has made a decisive contribution. In its request for a legislative referendum on the Slovenian State Holding Act, the coalition believes that the referendum will have anti-constitutional consequences. In our view, none of the claims made in the Constitutional Opinion for the referendum are true. However, by establishing a holding company, there will be an anti-constitutional situation, which can be illustrated by at least one case, as the law nationalises the 34% share of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance in the Insurance Office of Triglav. According to the coalition, the holding referendum will threaten the provision of pensions. This is not true in any case, since, under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the State budget must provide funds to finance a hole in the pension register, as well as now the Capital Society is financing a pension fund with EUR 50 million per year created by the management of state assets. Of course, the sale of the capital company’s assets by means of a law on the implementation of the budget threatens the provision of pension funds. The government also allows the holding company to sell the 34% share of the Triglav Insurance Company, which is now owned by the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute. We must be aware that the sale of the Triglav Insurance Company for a total of some 100 million euros makes it possible for foreigners to manage assets worth 2 and a half billion euros. We wonder whether this is in the interest of the people and the country, since the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance will not have the long-term resources to finance future pensions due to such decisions. We stress that the assessment of the current management of capital investments by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development is good. This is also recorded in their report. However, this Government intervened in April 2012 in the independence of the Agency and misled the public that the OECD welcomes this. As a result, the OECD has made public that it does not agree with such interference with the independence of the Capital Investment Management Agency. The establishment of the OECD holding company was not welcomed. The opinion on the establishment of the holding company has not yet been adopted and will be adopted in November 2012 as foreseen in their programme. What an opinion we can only conclude on the basis of disregarding the guidelines of this organisation, because if you do not follow the guidelines of this eminent economic organisation, Slovenia may lose its status in this club of the most developed countries. However, such a status can be lost precisely because of the imprudent form of capital investment within the holding company itself. What the economic consequences for Slovenia will then be, of course, for social democrats, we do not even hope to think about. The government says that the law establishing the holding company is a reform law without which international aid is needed. The importance referred to by the Government in establishing the holding company is completely new. We reiterate – when the Government introduced the Slovenian State Holding Act into the National Assembly, it only mentioned a change in capital investment management, not that it is a reform law that depends on Slovenia's sovereignty. What are the consequences of establishing a holding company for the stability of Slovenia? Holding is already in debt at the time of setting up, which means that it will have problems at the beginning and will come into insolvency proceedings because the holding will receive EUR 3 billion in debt from Darsa, 1.6 billion in debt from the Slovenian Compensation Company, and is threatened, on the basis of experience from the Irish bad bank, by transferring the bad bank's debts to holding. The government by establishing the holding company actually causes economic instability. The creation of the holding company also creates instability in the state budget, because the dividends of state-owned enterprises will not be the revenue of the budget, but these private companies. Nor will the revenues from the sale of the current state property be the revenue of the budget, which means that the government is threatening to ensure the liquidity of the budget to finance the sovereign budget's debts. The possibility of financing the state budget through the flag of state property is also eliminated. For example, in the early 1990s, Finland set up state real estate to finance the budget. This solution is being abandoned by the government because the property is being transferred to the ownership of the holding company, which, as we have said, is already being over-indebted at the outset. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, such a proposal for a request by the National Assembly for a Constitutional Court to assess whether the rejection of the Slovenian State Holding Act at the referendum would have led to unconstitutional consequences, we will not support it. Let me also say our position that we oppose the Slovenian State Holding Act until the conclusion of the legislative procedure, which is, if possible, to the Referendum, until the date of the vote. So we will not support the law throughout the referendum process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Starman on behalf of the Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying a nice hello to everyone. I'm sorry when we've been wasting time and time and we haven't been able to agree on one thing alone – how to improve the management of state property. We've been fighting since the beginning since we've been here in this House – with the changes in the functioning of the AUKN and then the proposal for a law in May, then the postponement. Finally, we were able to bring about a solution, and some law on how to manage state property, to such a stage that it could act and bring any benefit, there was some incredible situation that Positive Slovenia and several other Members blocked the validity of this law by introducing a referendum initiative. It is a shame that we are talking about this, it is a shame that those Members of Parliament have done this, it is a pity for all of us, for all of our constituents, because they are directly causing us enormous harm. It will be known to all, every day the introduction of this law will be known in all the wallets of all Slovenians. Of course, in some more, in some less, because some want to maintain their positions in the unjustifiably drawing money from state assets, from state-owned enterprises, from state-owned banks. In all ways, they try to maintain this position and in all ways all possible changes are blocked. Who's going to tell me that so far government property management has been good? Last year, we created EUR 135 million in state assets. This year, €394 million is lost. The year before, in 2009, 254 million euros plus. Look at what these numbers are and who says they don't matter, you can just imagine it on this idea of yours. These are large numbers and just look when AUKN began to regulate this property – how did this change from 254 plus to 394 minus. That's 600 million euros, that's all our reforms, that's all our savings and something else. In just one year, the business of this state property has deteriorated so much. These state-owned companies of ours have served poorly at all times. Compared to the world, there is a significantly lower added value, these are mainly monopolistic companies that have a special position on the market and could create much more, and what they would create could also benefit ordinary citizens in the form of social contributions, a variety of things that are very necessary and will be even more necessary if we continue to do so. So I really don't understand some, and I don't understand any reason. I hope that, after all these discussions on this state-owned holding company, our voters have seen that this is indeed a big bluff and that in all the arguments against the introduction of this law or the functioning of this state-owned holding company, there is no real reason why they would not enforce this law. The question was, and we don't even know how much is being transferred to this state holding company let them look at those who don't know how much. We have EUR 12 billion 535 million, according to AUKN data, at the end of 2011 the capital of all companies in which the country has a share, in all companies does not have a 100 % share, and in some cases it has a lower share. The share or book value of the shares of all companies held by the State shall be 31. 12. 2011 EUR 8 billion 835 million. These are the numbers. The transfer will probably be done at some values, and these are debates that we don't know how much, what, how much. It is a matter of ensuring, no matter how much and what, a more efficient management of state property, without delay and as soon as possible, and every delay is a huge damage. I call once again, all those who have the right mind in the right place, and who can change your mind and save us from these grueling debates and delaying the introduction of this law, to do so by withdrawing your signatures and ending this stupid debate that we have here. I think that in fact state property and governance with it is now at a stage where no one is dealing with it. It seems that this is the most appropriate situation for some — to do whatever they want to do, no one is dealing with it, because it is the best way to work in this fog, whatever it is. The introduction of this law would set up a professional administration, of course with state property is a duty and will always have to be responsible for the availability of this property and for the results – the government, the current executive authority and no one else – everything else is a misappropriation. However, I hope that the government here will find professional staff to manage and manage this property in order to achieve the best possible outcome. Personally, I've told you a lot of times, I'm not in favour of selling state property to a group fast. I object to this, but in particular I oppose the sale of good companies. Of course, I am very much in favour of these companies working well, creating a lot of new values and thus reinvesting, building new jobs within the state-owned enterprise system and also allowing part of their profits to be devoted to remedying the critical situation in public finances. Therefore, we should not, in fact, delay this matter. I don't know, I always repeat these things – how many cities there are and why they are all responsible to somehow plague the unnecessary outflow of money from this cup, which is getting smaller and smaller, and that in some way they would just bring in some new means to make it easier for all of us. That pensions can be created, such as the growth of living costs, so that the most critical social things can be regulated so that we do not make money for food, for all these things. I think we have to do this to finally reconcile this public consumption to some normal level so that we don't spend too much. The other thing is that we don't spend too much through the public procurement system, where we overpay everything. Thirdly, that we do not spend or allow – because they cannot now because they do not have money – but if we recapitalise, banks would continue to throw money out the window. We can't allow that, so we passed these laws, the bad bank law, the law on how to manage state property. We have adopted the budget and we are discussing the 2013 and 2014 budgets, which are poor people who cannot give everything they want. Otherwise, not everyone gets what they want in gold times, but now there are many critical items and rightly some resent that they will not be able to carry out their tasks with this money as it is intended for them. But that's what we have, and we have to deal with it. Now I've been talking, and I'm always talking about three, five segments, each one weighing a billion euros. If we get rid of it, we can plug these overexpenditures and bring in some new resources, and I always add that we can't collect taxes. I always say that we collect too little taxes so that with some simpler legislation, with flat-rate taxation, we can achieve a much better effect in this grey economy in terms of tax collection and VAT, which we do not know how to collect. Public enterprises, state-owned enterprises should be able to generate 7 to 10% of the capital return. This is very small, but if I had invested so much in my further development and research, I would have contributed only a little in the form of dividends in my budget. This would then be quite a return to our cash register. That would be two incomes, which would be higher, as well as taxes. But I said about the expenditure – it's public spending that we're saving. We have public contracts, and we don't have the money to order much, but a lot of money is wasted here. Finally, let me touch on how to encourage our economy, which is the key to our coming out of the crisis. The goal of all of us should be to preserve or create at least 50,000, 60,000 new jobs, especially for young people who are going abroad. We have invested a lot in their education, but now they have nowhere to get a job and so on. Our basic orientation must be how to open at least 50,000 jobs. Of course, it's much easier to close than to open. In doing so, I still blame the fact that we have closed businesses too quickly, where the country has done too little to maintain healthy cores in these companies, as far as possible, both in Primorje and in Radečé Paper, as well as in the SCT and everywhere, if property were to be eliminated in order for creditors to come, they would become owners. There should be very little change, but I don't know why we haven't done these things yet, and there could be practically nothing left in these companies that have become a practical thing like dying and then dissecting you on all sides. All these companies would stay because it is easier to keep a job than to create a new one. A thousand lost may be acquired by the new ten. This is a disaster for us and this is also a disaster for Europe. Now you can hear that in America there may be a rescue plant for Obama this information that has now been brought out – that 170 thousand or how many jobs have been opened only in October. How important that is. All of a sudden, when we get so many taxpayers who bring them into the cash register, it's a deal. Of course, we lose our competitiveness scales. It's our job to actually do something and, on the one hand, reduce our income. This work tax is very important to me. You have seen that we are the first in Europe after this, and yet no one correctly calculates how our work is taxed or how much a person gets in his pocket, compared to how much the employer has to pay. I'm still sorry. I tried to keep them alive when something was missing. We were all smart, and we talked about how we would go to a higher added value and so on. Work-intensive industries should also be preserved, they should find so much wisdom and say that they cannot be labour-intensive because they represent the cost of 70 % of the total income, equally taxed. If these labour-intensive industries were to abolish at least this second wage tax, which is 16.1%, they would now have all 100,000 jobs in the wood industry, in the metal industry and so on. It's lost, it went out. There's still a few that can be preserved. In short, in some ways we will have to improve the conditions, reduce the taxation of work and increase its efficiency and productivity, because then people will invest in our country and not all will run away from us. In short, the Civil Code will, of course, support this law, in the hope that the work of the Constitutional Court will be facilitated and that this initiative will be withdrawn first, which actually brings great harm to all citizens and also great harm to all those who have proposed this referendum initiative, because you will see that it will be difficult for you to believe and vote again after all these blockades and things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u24	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected minister with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. From the outset, I can argue that the possible referendum on the Slovenian State Holding Act will have serious consequences. The smallest will be the EUR 4 to 5 million that we will practically throw through the window for the referendum itself. Regardless of the fact that we are convinced in the Slovenian People's Party that citizens would confirm the solution in question at the referendum, since it is a shift from an ineffective state, this means a multi-month shift in the reform process and a new uncertainty – what Slovenia needs the least now. By the way, the Minister of Finance has made a conditional success of the fact that the interest rate on the European situation is still very high, he has acquired additional funds to finance the budget through the issue of bonds. But only with one promise – that we will carry out reform processes. It's stuck on the first step. Regardless of what we are discussing here, whether this law is reformous or not, the Slovenian State Holding Act is a law that belongs to the reform legislation package. That is how the European Central Bank adopted it, so it was accepted by the International Monetary Fund, which was accepted by the OECD, as also confirmed by its secretary, Mr Guría, so it was accepted by all financial institutions. Because it is very actively interfering with the concept of governance of state property. So, what has so far been poor, unsuccessful, untransparent, by all standards and indicators, we are now changing. No more many directors, administrations, supervisory boards, exchanges, departures, discharges, human resources machinations, evading responsibility. One company in charge of handling state property that we will be able to measure each year how successful it has been and that we will know exactly who is behind the key decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, in months we measure the time spent in coordinating this law. Both opposition parties actively participated. The law, as it is, is also largely the result of the coordination of all those involved, including representatives of the opposition. The Slovenian State Holding Act is a law where the coalition and the opposition were closest. The main argument of the opposition to the Slovenian State Holding is the assumption of the sale of state property. Respectfully, Slovenia today has neither a plan nor a strategy nor a more concrete definition of what to do with what is still state silver. You're telling people we're building a legal basis for the sale of state property, but it's the opposite. Today we could sell virtually everything, but when we have a holding company, the administration will be able to sell only and ultimately those shares that will be defined in the strategy approved by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. As has already been said, the consequences of the referendum will be so financial, as it will be very difficult to prevent a repeat decline in credit ratings as well as psychologically. For the signal we send abroad is clear – the blockade in Slovenia again, this time direct by the political party and some sympathizers. The reform process in Slovenia stops again, everything else in the European eyes is completely irrelevant. I have heard that some politicians claim that these credit houses are irrelevant, criminal, how financial markets do not see the real situation in us. This is like a person taking credit at a large bank, and then, after a while, he would start to question its rules and the commitments he signed. EUR 700 million per year is earmarked for interest only on the financing of its debt, and this referendum will make the situation worse. One of the credit rating agencies has already, we have already heard, announced the possibility of further reductions in the rating. But let's look at the wider picture – with the loss of confidence in the country, confidence also falls in companies operating in Slovenia. This makes it more difficult for them to get in debt because they operate in an uncertain environment, and we know what that means. There are no new jobs. This means a further decline in the social product, an increasingly difficult implementation of budgets. This is why there are counter-constitutional consequences, as the country is just before it is able to no longer guarantee the rights prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, because every year it is necessary to provide an additional 1.4 billion for pensions, a billion euros for social security, that I am not even talking about education, health care. Members of Parliament and Members who have signed under the referendum request, in particular Members of the Positive Slovenia. Your action is also excused by the excuse that, just as you are now, another party has taken part in the previous mandate and that you are only pursuing the practices that have already been seen. A very immature act, I must say, you're like the children in the sandstone, where first one of them takes the shovel away from the other, and then this one gives it back to him by taking his claw. Unfortunately, however, this sandstone is the state of Slovenia. Although we could also follow the political party that supported the only structural reform of the previous mandate and the previous government from the opposition and whose signatures were not under the demands of the parliamentary minority for referendums. In the Slovenian People's Party, we do not agree with the recent statement that you have declared war on John Janša. Absolutely not. You didn't tell the other parties in the coalition either. You have declared war on citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, all the inhabitants of this country, because they will feel the consequences of your decision in everyday life. You have taken them one step closer to what is being monitored daily on small screens in Greece and other countries. Before that, you waited very finely for a referendum to cover one of your unions. When that didn't happen, there was a secret night campaign in secret. It does not appear that we would realize that the situation in which we are is all above us as a matter of political prestige and is all too serious for such political manoeuvres. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not afraid of the referendum in the Slovenian People's Party. We believe in change, we believe that we can do better with what is left in Slovenia. For this solution, which has been in preparation for months, we will fight to the end. However, as it is said, the damage will already be done with his invitation to tender. Therefore, we appeal, not for the sake of the coalition, not for the sake of Members and other political officials – because of people who had hope and who also voted for your party, swallow your pride and withdraw your request for a referendum. Otherwise, in the Slovenian People's Party, we will also take advantage of the option that remains for us and support the request for a constitutional review of the referendum requirement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members, and we are moving on to the general debate of Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. As a proponent, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Some doubts were expressed in the views of the parliamentary groups, including some inaccuracies with regard to this requirement for constitutionality and also with regard to the content of the law itself. First of all, as regards the effectiveness of the AUKN. Last year, the Republic of Slovenia received dividends of EUR 33.8 million and, at the same time in the same year, in 2011 it implemented EUR 506 million of recapitalisation in state-owned enterprises. This is said to be about 15 times as much invested by the state in the functioning of the state property as it has earned from it. So much for the quality of the performance of the AUKN and those who have been in certain functions in those institutions that have managed state assets. Catastrophic efficiency is that. Secondly, with regard to these permanent indications of politicisation and political recruitment. Both AUKN and the AUKN Council have appointed, implemented, in the previous term, a policy. The National Assembly carried out this appointment in full, to the last person, both in the administration of AUKN and in the world of AUKN. In this mandate and in this Act on Slovenian State Holding, we propose a different appointment procedure, because here they also have the possibility of proposing a parliamentary group and, of course, the opposition through the Commission for Public Finance Supervision. This was not the case in the previous term. There were also indications of how the policy would affect the functioning of the Slovenian State Holding. Let me just remind you that in the previous term, political pressure was exerted on the independent agency AUKN and the realisation of the New Credit Bank of Maribor with state-owned company money. Political pressure. No one denied it. So many people who are telling what is supposed to happen or what is going to happen in the future. This has happened with the independent AUKN and with experts who managed this state institution. As regards these persistent suspicions of the opposition groups that something is illegal or something is unconstitutional. In fact, these are mere suspicions, hints, and you ask us to withdraw from the law because of these suspicions. That's probably not how it works. We are convinced that the laws are in line with legal regulation, with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, with the Constitution, so we have completed these procedures. If they are suspected, then this matter must be properly processed and verified in the Constitutional Court in order to ensure that something does not work in this case. You're also talking about signatures being authentic. Yesterday or today, I noticed that at that Tuesday evening, the meeting of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, Mr Wilfan signed twice, two forms, and only one signed, one signed. This probably speaks of the confusion that prevailed when this request was formulated and how credible the statements of those who declared that these were not all personal matters. And there's one more thing. It was clear to me that I had proposed to the College a decision that was voted against by all representatives of the parliamentary groups in the College. The Magnography of the College of the National Assembly says when the president put this to a vote, who is in favour – SDS, who is against – no one. Mr Möderndorfer did not vote against this proposal. It is true, however, that the proposal has not been adopted because the principle of voting in the College is such. But there was no one against her, Mrs. Bratusek. So much for not being able to verify yesterday's things exactly. Then how am I supposed to believe your historical explanation? Probably difficult, especially since you were the administrator of the state budget when you adopted the budget with some meaningful deficit and the realisation was with a deficit that is enormously higher. Of course it was, you can look if you don't believe it, and that's how it was. This has not been repeated once, but has been repeated twice or three times. I have not heard the Director of the Directorate for Budget in these years, which I am in the National Assembly, for 12 years, once before this mandate, to draw public attention to any problem regarding the implementation of the budget, as regards the Maastricht criteria, as regards the government's necessary policies not to be implemented, instead of being tolerant, they were carried out in a completely different way. Not once, ma'am, there's no magnetogram in the National Assembly on this subject. You could have spoken as a representative as Director of the Directorate, just as you had the opportunity here. If not here, but on the board, if not on the board, otherwise, because you must have been a professional public, you were a professional at the time. That's too bad, isn't it? Too bad, and we were also expecting these discussions and explanations of why these things are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u27	Thank you very much. There is no replica, Mrs Bratušek has not yet discussed, so she will have to wait for procedural options to have a replica. The word is Patricia Shulin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u28	President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present. We therefore have before us a motion for a decision on the request of the National Assembly that the Constitutional Court of our country decide whether, by deferring the application of the Law on the Slovenian State Holding Act or rejecting it at the referendum, there could be unconstitutional consequences. On the ground, I listen to the obviouss on my own, probably also one of my colleagues, that citizens will no longer go to the referendums because we are responsible for the adoption of laws in the National Assembly, and that we accept them here, and that the referendums are because we have not done our work in the National Assembly. As has been said many times today, the Slovenian State Holding Act has already been adopted in the National Assembly. The National Assembly carried out its work at its 7th regular meeting in October this year. However, in accordance with our legislation, even in order to ensure the highest degree of democracy, it is possible at the time of the adoption of the law in the National Assembly to propose a call for a legislative referendum, at which citizens will then decide on the adoption or rejection of the law already adopted in the National Assembly. Today we have a situation when 30 Members and Members of Parliament on 30 October this year 15 minutes before the deadline for the submission of the legislative referendum or, if I say metaphorically, five minutes before the twelfth, an application for a legislative referendum on the Slovenian State Holding Act has been submitted. However, to freshen up our memory of the formation and adoption of this law again, let me say that it was in this Assembly of States that we all decided in the summer that the proposal for the Slovenian State Holding Act should not be included in the agenda of this National Assembly, because we have all come to the conclusion that it needs to be further improved and we have also agreed to the establishment of an expert group to review the proposed law, to propose new improvements, new provisions, which has also happened. As we know, Members and Members and other representatives of the opposition also participated in this working group, and as we have heard from Pogačnik, a colleague who led this working group in the summer, has worked well and has largely unified on all matters, except around the Supervisory Council, which is elected by an absolute majority right here in the National Assembly. Article 21 of the Slovenian National Holding Act provides for 9 members of the Supervisory Board. Four members are elected on a proposal from the Government and one of these proposals is proposed by the Economic and Social Council, four on a proposal from the parliamentary groups and one on a proposal from the Commission of the National Assembly for the supervision of public finances. Hence, they are members of the Governing Council from a general public. As has already been said, this working group has also been unified around ownership and management of state property, and today we are again listening to the opposition as if what I said had never happened before, and they are re-emphasizing their initial proposed Law on Slovenian State Holding. The Slovenian State Holding Act, which we adopted at the 7th ordinary meeting, contains a series of security guards that will prevent headless and imprudent sales of state property, which we hear is just happening with Petrol. The law also allows for multi-stage supervision of the business of the company, both by the Supervisory Board and by the National Assembly. Maybe it's this multi-phase corporate control that's bothering someone. This company will be much more controlled and has many more protectors to produce headless and imprudent sales of state property. In my opinion, this law would finally give Slovenia a strategy for managing state property, which would also then be adopted here in the National Assembly. We know that state assets have not been managed effectively so far because state-owned companies have not achieved good business results. And what does a good master who has not achieved a good outcome for many years in a row? He must probably change the way his company operates and operates. Thus, the main purpose of the Slovenian State Holding Act is to manage our country's investments in a concentrated manner with a view to achieving stable ownership, with a view to achieving economic and development objectives and public interest objectives. The Slovenian State Holding Act is also an important law in the package to solve our financial problems. The first measure taken under these measures was the Public Finance Balance Act, which, unfortunately, is not sufficient not only for us, but also for the wider European community, but also for some other reform proposals that are already being prepared and will be brought to the attention of the National Assembly in the short term. The government has also presented this package of measures to international institutions and experts, who have mainly given a positive signal to the proposed measures. Even today, we are being watched by the local and foreign public. We must be concerned about this because it is precisely because of the request made by 30 Members of the Parliament and Members of the National Assembly after the legislative referendum on the Slovenian State Holding Act that the 10 billionth value of our state assets is falling heavily. Now I'm asking you, where is the concern of those of you who have expressed the concern that the robbery of the century will take place? Where is the concern of those who started asking the Finance Minister early in the spring whether Slovenia will have to apply for international financial assistance. Both of you were concerned at the time, but in my opinion you made a request on 30 October this year for a legislative referendum on the Slovenian State Holding. So think about your beginning.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are talking here today about the request made by the National Assembly or coalition that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia decide whether the suspension of the application of the Act on the Slovenian State Holding Act or its rejection could have counter-constitutional consequences. This requirement is, of course, legal, absolutely in accordance with the law and is not read to you on our side. We are convinced, however, that you are aware of the current practice of the Constitutional Court, which has decided several times in such cases. The position of the Constitutional Court on these matters is extremely restrictive and the Constitutional Court, even in this session, has set very high standards here. If I summarise the last provision that is most consistent – that is, the provision which relates to the rejected requirement of whether the constitutionality of the required referendum applies to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the Constitutional Court has said that a referendum can be suspended when the law repeals the anti-constitutional regime and should be given priority in the event of weighing these non-constitutional provisions and that it should be rejected where the public financial reasons for a specific amendment are not constitutionally measurable. I am sure that if the rule of law is still in force in this country, your initiative will not be adopted or, to put it right, rejected, which means that the referendum will take place. The fact is that the current regime is by no means unconstitutional, on the contrary. It would be an unconstitutional regulation under the law you proposed. Where there are grounds for unconstitutionality, it has been said so many times that it would not be listed again. It seems most controversial to me that the entire assets remaining in this country will be managed by private law rules, which means very opaque and without any control. The operation of the Slovenian State Holding – not only will the provisions of the Public Information Access Act not apply, which will make it impossible for citizens and even the media to see what is happening in the holding company, but will not even apply the rules on public procurement, which means that the entire huge holding company will order its goods and services through the rules and the law on public procurement and open the door wide to possible corruption, as the Anti-Corruption Commission has also pointed out. Most controversially, however, it seems to me that by this law you have enforced not only one that is completely contrary to the guidelines of the OECD and the European institutions, but an arrangement that is completely contrary to your electoral promises. In their electoral and pre-election programmes, in particular, the party on my left, the SDS, and the Party of the Civil Gazette, promised to implement such means of asset management, where policy will be separate from management. You're doing the opposite. You are implementing a system where the state will directly manage this property through the administration and also control through the government, and do not even allow the opposition to appoint its people to this supervisory council or other independent experts, because only effective control can prevent abuse. Therefore, the words on how to succeed with this initiative and how you will certainly be and how the Constitutional Court will prevent this referendum are not appropriate. Also inappropriate are the words in which you dispute the submission of this referendum. The opposition has used in its efforts to date all the legal remedies the opposition has in order to prevent the adoption of a bad law. We discussed, we participated in the working group, we warned, we amended, we prepared our law, we obstructed it, we tried to take the veto of the State Council, and nothing. "Afne rumbles," we were told, and we felt so damn bad at times when we talked and talked, but we weren't heard. "What can you do?"you mocked us. We still had a lot of problems before we decided to go to the referendum. The bottom line was that you abused procedures and abused democracy in trade unions as well. One union has come up with a possible dispute, which will be discussed by colleagues, an agreement that may have significantly exceeded the powers of the government, and the other union has lost votes and the unions have been informed 15 minutes before the deadline. They were only running out of 146 votes, which would have been easy to get if they could have time if they had been informed when it was known that the signatures were not enough, that is five days earlier. That's the bottom of it. Because whatever was of interest, such as the Chemical, Non-metallic and Rubber Industry Union, I am not really interested, and I firmly deny that we are related to them in any way because we are not. Whatever their interest is, they have the right under article 90 of the Constitution to begin collecting signatures and require people to decide if they collect enough signatures. Nothing else can force a union like the decisions of people, citizens. We also think that the citizens' decision on how the last phase of privatisation will take place – whether it will be transparent or controlled or will have an impact on it – is worth the legislative referendum. These are decisions that people have to make, and that is why we have decided on this referendum. And of course because people, our constituents, begged us to do something. We're a winning party in this country. We won the election. A relative winner is an expression that someone in the opposition invented. Even in America, the American President wins a few votes every time, sometimes even the court has to find out who the winner is, and no one calls him the relative president of the United States for four years. We are the winners of these elections. If you then managed to form a government, some say fraud, of course, is another problem. We are also the only party, in addition to one that can only submit a referendum with a few additional votes. So, Mr Tonin, that any opposition party could request a referendum, of course, it does not. We, too, needed some help from courageous individuals, and I thank them once again on this occasion. Whether we make the right decision or not, the voters will show. Voters will go to the referendum and tell their story. Is this a referendum on the government? Maybe. Why not? We have so many mouths about people deciding. However, after one year of restrictive austerity measures, they should have the opportunity to say whether they support such a government path or whether this government path is the right one. Apparently, the only way they have it is through the referendum. It's okay if you do. Perhaps we live in a parallel reality in the opposition and are truly pleased with this government. They support her decisions. If it turns out to be, it's gonna turn out to be. We made a mistake and we did the wrong thing. However, if this does not prove true, we have given our constituents and citizens who trust us the opportunity to make their views known on such important topics. That's all that's going on. Therefore, all these overwhelming thoughts, who we destroy, and what we destroy — we do not destroy. This is a referendum, a legitimate constitutional form of decision-making for citizens on important issues. This is also a simple lie because it is a law that is by no means part of the reform measures, as stated by Standard & Poor's. In the end, just a few words about signatures. My will and the will of my colleagues under both requests for a referendum has been clearly expressed and could be verified. Should we file original signatures with the bad bank law? Of course, then President Virant couldn't challenge us. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to reach them in four hours. A few people from our party weren't physically present in our country. It is true that the original signatures would be incontrovertible and the question is whether the scanned signatures can also be considered as the valid expressed will of Members because they are verifiable. All Members immediately confirmed from their protected internet address that this is our clear will. The Constitutional Court, in its decision – I will quote it as a matter of fact that you will be able to verify – the U-I-104/01 of 2001 in the 19th paragraph of the judgment said that the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative could not be interpreted in any way restrictively and that, in the event of doubt, the obligations and favours of the right to referendum should be interpreted. In doubt, we explain in favour of the right to a referendum. For it is such an important right and such an important human right, which is constitutionally guaranteed that it is the judgment of the Constitutional Court. The Law on the Referendum and on the Human Initiative and the Constitution are simply talking about the need to propose a referendum of 30 Members. Only Article 15 of the Law on the Referendum speaks of the signatures of Members, but only Article 113 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly speaks of their own signatures. The Rules of Procedure are a submarital act, the experts have made their point. All right, we're gonna move on, we're gonna need a court-martial and let the court say the last. In the case of the lawyer’s scanned signature, the Constitutional Court, in its decision, has already stated that the lawyer’s scanned signature is equivalent to the original signature. Despite the fact that the Law of Justice requires an original signature. The Constitutional Court has said that in the age of communication it is necessary to change the opinion and also take into account new technologies. Whether the scanned signatures of Members confirmed by Members as an expression of their will could be valid, the Constitutional Court has not yet ruled. It will decide on our initiative, and then we will see what it says, and only when the Constitutional Court gives us the wrong will you be able to swing your left hand so that we are wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor, Mr Richard Braniselj is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u32	I think the decision for the referendum is risky and may be harmful. At the same time, I think that the Slovenian State Holding Act is, and I feel the same way about the Bad Bank Act, which is dangerous for this country and threatens the long-term development of this nation's community. But the responsibility that we have before the act, when we can all face the referendum together, is not on the signatories of the request for this referendum, but is solely the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the ruling majority, because we are strong and confident opponents of both legal solutions in this National Assembly have repeatedly warned that it will be faced with a demand for a referendum by thermal control, with poor solutions. Secondly, today it is the responsibility of policy to find smart solutions to the existing situation. I repeat that I think the referendum is harmful, but at the same time I repeat that I think both laws are even more harmful. It is now the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the ruling coalition to discuss with the initiators of the referendum and in this Parliament the possibilities of finding a way out, correcting both laws and preventing a referendum. If there is a political will, if there is little goodwill, if there is a responsibility for what we as Members and Members of Parliament are responsible for, then I am sure that there is a way to achieve that. But again, the first sign of goodwill on this issue must be shown by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of Janez Janša. The referendum is legitimate, the requirement to assess the constitutionality of this referendum is legal, and according to its content, I hope to deny myself the character of legitimacy. It cannot be argued that the Slovenian State Holding Act eliminates the unconstitutional consequences which the Constitutional Court has never identified and which were not known to the public, including politicians, until yesterday. This requirement of the ruling majority is based on the assumption that today we are in an unconstitutional situation because the Capital Investment Management Act does not provide a basis for the implementation of the Slovenian principle as a social state. My dears, what about the Public Finance Balance Act? But the Public Finance Balance Act is the expression of Article 2 of the Constitution that Slovenia is a social and legal state? No, the Public Finance Balance Act is a symbol of Slovenia's becoming something that is not a social state and, given the rights of the affected people, pensioners, young families and others, it is also an expression of the fact that it is no longer a rule of law. I also deny the legitimacy of this request because, in the proceedings before the Constitutional Court, it is charged with the express will of Members and Members. That's unacceptable. Democracy is being tested before the Constitutional Court. I believe that this creates an unacceptable precedent in the very requirement for a constitutional assessment, which will have long-term political consequences. Moreover, it seems that while we were careful not to steal our property, we were robbed of democracy. I demand an answer to what has happened to 394 signatures of workers and workers who have expressed their will to take the bad bank project to the referendum! I demand that answer! If there is no satisfactory response from the Minister of the Interior and the President of the National Assembly, I will request the resignation of both! It is impossible for 394 signatures to disappear in this country, a country that wants to be a mature democratic republic. It's unacceptable. Clearly, the activity to prevent a referendum on the Slovenian State Holding, initiated by the Energy Workers' Union, has been driven by a dangerous deal. Yesterday we were informed of the content of the agreement between the Minister of Finance, between the Minister of Infrastructure and Space and the Energy Workers' Union, and this agreement was confirmed by the Government at a letter meeting last Tuesday, one week ago. Yesterday, this agreement, as information to the National Assembly, was also submitted to the National Assembly system. This morning – this is information from journalists – the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space denied journalists any agreement. I kindly ask the Minister of Finance to determine whether this agreement exists or not. Of course, it doesn't matter. It is important, of course, to see whether the signing of this agreement has exceeded the possible powers of Minister of Infrastructure and Space, Zvonka Černač, and Minister of Finance, Janez Šuštersič. But that is not all, and we will examine this issue in detail. Of course, it also raises the question whether it is by laying down this agreement that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in preparing the classification and management strategy, will pursue the target share, inter alia, in Gen Energy, which is owned by Krško Nuclear Power Plant, whether or not the interstate agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia which prohibits the transfer of ownership shares in this power plant has been breached. It's an interstate contract. This is something that binds the same as the Constitution and binds the law. This interstate agreement also binds the law. The law is a subordinate act in this respect at a time when this National Assembly ratifys this interstate treaty with a special law. To be clear, I don't even mind the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, I don't mind attracting private investors to build new production capacities in this country to get investors to produce more and cleaner energy tomorrow. I don't mind. They're welcome. They must be welcome. It bothers me that under the table with an agreement with one union due to the short-term danger of a barant referendum with me particularly painful Drava power plants, pearls of Slovenian energy producing the purest energy in the country and in the cheapest way! These Drava power plants ensure the competitiveness of half of Slovenian energy. How is it possible that the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Infrastructure and Space, in view of the still applicable provisions of the law, did not at least come to consult on this issue in the National Assembly? Can we sign such an agreement that the government will pursue the target share and you will hide behind the rules and say, "Yes, on the basis of this agreement we will still come to the National Assembly and the National Assembly will take this decision." It's all true. What worries me is that what this ruling coalition accepts is that what the government accepts will ultimately be confirmed by the ruling majority in this National Assembly. I fear this decision because so far it has been considered that this energy, this important part of our national economy, will not be touched because we recognize the strategic value of being safe, that we are self-sufficient. In particular, it is not in the production sector and it is unacceptable that such arrangements take place. Unacceptable! I demand clear answers from the competent minister and the Minister for Infrastructure and Space. I think that this requirement is an expression of a very imaginary, innovative ability to write similar requirements. I think it's largely overwritten by a similar requirement for a pension referendum to be assessed last year. It is quite impossible to listen here today to some debates about how Slovenia has not adopted any reform so far. Mr Pogačnik referred to this in his position on the Group of Members. Yes, of course she's not. You have taken three important reforms to the referendum, respected, and that is why Slovenia is where it is. Credit rating agencies started to assess Slovenia's declining credibility, declining trust in it, and this increased, especially after your party's president, Prime Minister Janez Janša, spent inappropriate statements abroad by an unworthy statesman who follows the best interest for his country.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Minister Janez Šušteršič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. Frangež, there is an agreement. There is also a decision by the Presidency of this union to confirm this agreement and there is also a fact that they have withdrawn the request for a referendum on the basis of this agreement. I also checked with the President of the National Assembly once again. This agreement contains what these unions wanted to talk about. They wanted to talk about the strategic orientations of energy – this is what I talked about with the Minister of Infrastructure and Space – and the target shares or the fact that most energy companies will remain in majority state ownership. This is what is written in this agreement. We, as soon as the Government adopted it at the letter meeting, also informed the public with one announcement. It is true, however, that only yesterday did we send him to the National Assembly officially after you requested it on the committee. This deal is what it is. I share this assessment that the system of referendums in Slovenia is such that someone who collects a few signatures very quickly can practically guarantee the right to negotiate with a government that many people do not have or have no opportunity to have. We have seen this in particular in that referendum on bad banks, where the unions themselves have told us that they have collected enough signatures from three companies. These signatures, as far as I can tell, are being checked and you'll probably be informed. As far as the deal is concerned. In our opinion, we have not exceeded any powers. With the agreement, we only committed ourselves to being, as Minister, and the government as the one that confirmed this agreement at the letter meeting, in the framework of the preparation and inter-departmental coordination of acts under the Slovenian State Holding Act, the right classification of investments, and so on, defined the target shares as set out here. But it is quite clear that we are talking about inter-departmental coordination, that we will coordinate the proposal, which then goes by law to the National Assembly and is confirmed by the National Assembly or not. We have also committed ourselves – this is this strategic aspect of energy development – to align these proposals with existing sectoral strategies, energy policies and also with the social partners within this ESOE, which is a specific part of the Economic and Social Council in the field of energy. So we only committed ourselves to what the government can do. If he holds that any part of this agreement is in contravention of any interstate agreement, of course we will not be able to do so. That is also clear to us, but we will check it out, and I will also inform you of what we have found here. The second thing you asked. You asked if there was a will to talk. I think the government of Janez Janša, as you called her, and the finance ministry have shown great willingness to talk. We, when we adopted the Public Finance Balance Act, talked to the unions about this for so long that, in the end, all of us, with some agreement that they had signed, refused to go to the referendum, except for the police union, which eventually applied for a referendum. Then we talked to them for so long that they withdrew the request. With regard to the Slovenian State Holding Act, I have said many times – in the summer we withdrew or postponed the treatment of the law, made working groups, talked to them several times, including with the OECD, corrected the law, tabled amendments, took note of many comments, have been listed several times. I wouldn't say that again. In short, we've shown the will to talk as much as possible. Even when we talked to the unions about this and about the next referendum, we offered them an offer to commit ourselves as a government that, if they withdraw the request for a referendum, we would propose certain amendments to the law in the National Assembly. In this case, the union and the holding referendum were not even necessary because this agreement was sufficient which did not require a change of law. But if that were necessary, we were ready to sign it. It's been a month since we passed this law or adopted it in the National Assembly. Then there was a veto request, there were requests for a referendum. The request for a referendum by Positive Slovenia came the last day. Someone who doesn't tell you what he expected to do to withdraw this request doesn't say that he's ready to talk about some withdrawal, he can't start talking about it, and I'm sorry it turned out like we didn't want to talk like we had 14 days or a month of this request for a referendum on the table and we'd ignore it. This will to talk exists and we are not the one we need to show because we have shown it many times and have also successfully led to results and agreements, many times. Second thing, I agree with you on the problem of referendum arrangements. I think there's also a process in the National Assembly where these things are trying to change. I hope that this process will eventually be successful, and I hope that you will all try to contribute to this. The third thing I'd like to say is, in the end, you asked about the relationship between these issues and the ratings. I think that these cases have now been so much so that this logic is simple, "let's be a little careful about what you're saying, and everything will be fine with the cost of borrowing" – I think now anyone who tries to understand it is clearly not. When we thought in the summer that a statement had triggered a reaction on the market — yes, and sometimes a statement or an article or something like that would trigger a reaction on the market, but this reaction takes a day or two, you can observe it yourself. But when there are real problems, it lasts longer. We have a real problem in the banking sector. When we began to save, our bonds, or debt costs, also began to decline. It is also very clear from the data – despite the fact that we issued bonds at a time when they were falling, in general that ours fell more than others, that when, say, in September, the European Central Bank intervened that they were falling more quickly than we were. It is because we have not yet had these solutions produced and adopted in the National Assembly that we have not been able to explain exactly what they are and what we intend to do. So I'm sorry about that logic, but I will mention it – the President of the Republic talked about the fact that if I'm quiet, people won't get upset, the markets won't get upset, and so on. I don't know where we're going if we're gonna talk about the problems we're having, quiet and hope no one notices them. We do have a whole bunch of institutions that independently monitor Slovenia, who have information and will, of course, tell what they think, whether I'm quiet or not. I'm sure it would be a very wrong decision if we didn't talk about things. This is no longer an alarm and we have not reported on what is happening in the markets, how credit rating agencies reacted yesterday – or one of them is now publicly available and publicly known. So some such policies, "keep quiet and everything will get better", we cannot go because it is not real policy, it is not facing problems, it is not trying to solve problems. After you have virtually all the arrangements to have signed, someone who has not submitted any requests until then did not submit a request for a referendum, had the signatures of the deposited somewhere in the drawer just in case — in case those who were sent to fight would not succeed. At that time, listening to how you need to start talking now because you didn’t, but it’s really a little inappropriate for those who spent almost a month on these conversations with a variety of people who applied, wanted to talk, and so on. In the last few days, we've been talking to someone about this last request. With the ones we wanted. Anyone who's come here who's given us a chance. We can talk, maybe we can find a solution, maybe we can find it quickly. We talked to those, too, and we'll talk. We don't need any intermediaries in this, and we don't need any good wishes. All we need is readiness, on the other hand, to talk and to talk with a view to reaching an agreement. I've been critical of unions a lot in the past, but that's what I'd like to say. When I sat with unions, some, others, others, even in the time of the ZUJF, the adoption of the ZUJF and now, it was to him that you, Mr Frangež, spoke as clearly as you do – that the referendum was the worst option. And so did they to come to an agreement so that they could say, "Look, we don't have to go to a referendum." Apparently, there are only 30 people here who don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Braniselj has the floor, Mr Jožef Horvat is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Part of Slovenian policy has decided to send citizens and citizens to the referendum by signature. A very brave decision, I hope they are behind this decision and take full responsibility for it as well. Citizens and citizens are expected to decide on the Slovenian State Holding Act, a law that brings the necessary criteria, organisation and management of state property. The law, which was given a green light not only in the project group that met throughout the summer, but not only on all national councils, not only in the National Assembly itself – twice with an absolute majority. He also obtained green light in the State Council, in trade unions and after all, in the professional public as well as in the OECD. Not to mention what marriage brings and why marriage is good – we have heard about it in several debates. The Civil Code still states that this law is urgently needed and that this law provides a solution in terms of better governance of state property. State property or property in general is a constitutional category, property is a constitutional category. Property means we can set it up, sell it, and manage it. And when we manage it, we expect some to come. Why is state ownership actually a constitutional category? Because of this state property we are acquiring in the budget the funds that have, in fact, somehow disappeared in recent years. Whoever worked in the economy knows that we have always, almost always planned, and these plans have also achieved an 8% return on capital. If we look at the return on government investment capital at this point, we find that this return was -2.9 % in 2010 and -0.8 % in 2011. If, given the value of these investments, the expected return was as appropriate, and there should be no problem in achieving this percentage, which I was talking about, because it is the best Slovenian companies, it is the monopoly on the market, and there should be no problem that every year the budget will run into about a billion euros from this title. If this were to be achieved, neither the ZUJF nor the liabilities would be required. Let's just manage state property as good masters do and as those are expected to do. Why are you afraid to enforce the Slovenian State Holding Act? I hope it's not so that someone can prove that this governance of state property can be top-notch. I hope that it is not so that the state holding company will not be able to detect any issues arising from past times and therefore require responsibility. I hope that's not why! In the initiative to assess the constitutionality of this referendum initiative, point 7 is also problematic by the signatures of the Members of Positive Slovenia. Of course, it is not the ambition of the proposer of a constitutional judgment, nor is it to be expected from the Constitutional Court that he will go into a concrete assessment of whether these signatures are wrong or not. However, we want the Constitutional Court to tell us how to proceed in such cases when there are doubts as to whether these signatures are credible or not, and that is all that we would want from the Constitutional Court. After all, today we decide whether to send an initiative for constitutional review to the Constitutional Court or not. I think it is legal — given that we live in a legal state — for the Constitutional Court to decide. In the opinion of the proposalers, the non-implementation of this law would have counter-constitutional consequences – more on this in our initiative. After all, we will get a legal practice and we will get a judicature that will also say in advance when, in fact, referendum initiatives are possible and when not. Given that we are obviously talking in this National Assembly with a fig in our pocket about the need to correct the referendum problem at the constitutional level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Zivkovic, Secretary of State, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I could only complement the minister in one of the responses to the debate of one of the members of Positive Slovenia, Mrs Alenka Bratušek – this was the wrong reference to the reasons cited by the credit rating agency Standard & Poor's. I will not judge whether these reasons have been misinterpreted or merely as misinterpretation. The Agency's text is still in English, but let – somehow I was trying to translate – let me tell you what Standard & Poor's is really talking about in its opinion. This is how it goes: "We believe that the possibility for the parliamentary opposition to use referendum procedures as a lever of blockade poses a high risk, which could jeopardise the government's ability to implement structural reforms, which are considered very important in view of Slovenia's long-term macroeconomic stability. Reforms that could be threatened by this are fiscal consolidation, pension and health reform, labour market reform and public administration. Furthermore, we believe that delays in solving the problem, namely the rehabilitation of Slovenian financial institutions, are likely to jeopardise investor confidence and consequently increase the cost of indebtedness of Slovenia." That's actually what Standard & Poor's says in his report. It says nothing about the state property management system being completely fine today. Nor does it say anything about the fact that reforms remained more important than the management of state property. Maybe one more thing. One of the members of the same party, the opposition party, was declared to have nothing to do with the unions. Let me tell you an anecdotes. When we negotiated with both trade unions at the Ministry of Finance, a representative of one of the two unions said he was about 45 minutes late for the Ministry of Finance because he was with Positive Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor, Mr Roberto Battelli is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Minister with fellow Members! Some in Slovenia lost all their assets in the floods these days. Some in Slovenia have lost their jobs today and are plunged into depression. With regard to those who have lost property in natural disasters, I propose that each of us contribute at least 5% of the net salary and that the procedure be carried out by the President of the National Assembly or his College. But again, others in Slovenia break down all the solutions that we reconcile with torture and accept in the National Assembly, but solutions that are not ideal are optimal in time and space. If I now walk through the chronology of the adoption of the Slovenian State Holding Act, then I begin at the turning point, on the date of 19 July when the coalition agreed to the opposition's request that we stop the parliamentary procedure for the adoption of the Slovenian State Holding Act and that each of the parliamentary parties delegate its capital investment management experts. And that together, I stress – together, we are looking for an optimal solution. We can say that this law is actually a school case of how laws should be produced. In coordinating solutions during parliamentary holidays, our solutions met at a point that is the optimal achievement of each position and opposition. Perhaps, however, the well-respected opposition does not expect you to adopt and make laws, but we, our Government, the coalition, should bear responsibility. That probably doesn't work. This would be the wrong world. This may be possible in Butala, but in Slovenia this is not possible. It is certain that our concepts were different, but I do not see that there would be significant differences in our views on how to manage capital investments optimally in the Republic of Slovenia. But we are all aware that what happened today and in the past under the former leadership of the AUKN was not good for Slovenia. Today we listen to the obvious that through this law we will sell everything, all the property of the state. Then I must remind you that some state-owned business entities are already selling out – I will not say that they are selling out because I do not have a view. Even if I asked AUKN at the meeting or with a public letter, I did not get an answer as to what is going on with an important Premur business entity led by our friends from Positive Slovenia. These days we also received from the highest peak of Slovenian politics an invitation to step back – let the Government of the Slovenian State Holding Act and another one, the so-called bad bank, withdraw, pull back. Under which article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, under which article of the Constitution, I ask myself, colleagues and colleagues. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of questions that do not belong to the referendum. This complex legal material is indeed too difficult to provide for the average Slovenian electorate and citizen. The referendums are, in my firm belief, the last thing that Slovenia needs in these crisis situations. At the referendum, people will not decide on the law, they will decide on the government or on the government, and this is also the key purpose of the referendum's proponents. This requirement for a referendum on the Slovenian State Holding Act – I really want it to be credible – is legitimate and is in accordance with the Constitution. However, it is an eloquent example of how political prestige is put before the interests of the state. I hope to defend this very strongly, especially in view of the circumstances in which the request was prepared and in which it was invested. This is also a clear signal abroad that the opposition – a more precise part of the opposition – will do everything to bring the Republic of Slovenia into political blockade. According to the last or now required, Slovenia has again started to acquire credibility on bonds in the financial markets. This credibility is dramatically shaken by this referendum demand. This is also a sign that there is not enough unity in Slovenia regarding emergency measures to come out of the crisis. Therefore, the referendum's candidates have not yet realized that the capital of the bird's flag and that Slovenia is so needy for capital, the same people, the candidates of the referendum, are persistently pushing and dissuading Slovenia. How we really want and need foreign and, of course, domestic investors right now. So if he's part of the opposition, signed under the referendum request, sometimes he's secretly disrupting it, now he's doing it openly, on the open stage. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the candidates for the referendum, I believe, as you say, that it is difficult for you to place your signatures under a referendum request. But I believe you're capable of another sober mind, while, of course, it's time. As I say, I believe that with great difficulty you have signed under the referendum requirement, I believe you will also have a problem, but after considering it, you can withdraw the request for a referendum. Believe me, the Slovenians will be grateful to you. Otherwise, colleagues and colleagues, you'll have a long conscience because you've done something bad for Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Roberto Battelli has the floor, Mr Jože Veliki is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. There has never actually been a privatisation in Slovenia. The political elite has always controlled the economy, the banking system, the real estate sphere, especially at local level, and, of course, the media, both through the ownership structure and through advertising. Landownership has never allowed any other, much less fresh capital to be domestic or foreign, except when paying appropriate fees to the same system. At the time of the crisis, the system began to eat itself and began to bill its citizens. In short, he's worn out. Slovenia's state holding represents this moment an alternative to this system and to this trend. The referendum appears to be the last weapon of this system to be maintained. Something about the good faith of the initiators; first, the initiative was given after it was clear that these same moves would not be taken by the unions. It was contrary to the recitals of the initiators that the tools of the referendum would not be used. Part of the opposition hides behind this initiative with a single signature, and these signatures that can, in fact, raise certain doubts about their authenticity. Even if we look at this leaf, I can see — from it is the fact that it was made on the nose, a whole mess. We've heard that this happened four hours before 12 o'clock, which would only have happened if "befel" had come an hour earlier. Another argument that the initiators consistently made and interpreted, including to the public, against the holding law was that it was unconstitutional. However, the initiators did not go to the Constitutional Court to verify this unconstitutionality, but they had just collected signatures and would go to the referendum, and would have people decide to do so. All of this actually raises certain doubts about the good faith of the proposers. Certainly better holding than holding a referendum and this endless slip into total uncertainty caused by a system that can no longer live the way it used to.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Joža Velikonja has the floor. Get ready, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, chairman. I want to limit my debate today to just a few key facts. The procedure for examining the Slovenian State Holding Act and also the Bad Bank Act was carried out on all committees and twice in this National Assembly in a very heated atmosphere. The majority of the opposition MEPs stressed that both laws were bad and could have irreparable consequences. We have not seen their consequences – but this is already a year-round practice in all other laws adopted in this National Assembly. However, the weight of both laws is estimated to have even exceeded €17 billion. Such claims were presented by the profession, and none of the applicants could have argued against them. I prefer not to comment on the other developments in the process of adopting both laws. Attempts to prevent any changes to both laws at all costs – National Assembly, State Council, re-national assembly. The proposal of the coalition Members – yes, the proposal of the opposition Members – does not. Where is the content of laws and amendments in this National Assembly? Unions and governments, an agreement in the interest of the state. We're only gonna sell half the holding company and half the Krška Nuclear Power Plant, sell out Energy. Catastrophe. Will the manipulation of Members and legal procedures of the referendum initiative succeed this time? Obviously, any changes to both laws are not allowed by the government. I doubt that the proposed question will be able to be judged by the Constitutional Court in an entirely appropriate manner. However, I hope that citizens will judge such bad and harmful laws, including with my help, which has been clearly expressed. The surprise that the government will be ready to compromise with the opposition proposals is, unfortunately, I am not afraid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grims, get ready for Dr. Andrej Crnak Neglich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u46	Good-bye to all of you. Each constitutional assessment is a weighting of constitutional rights and social rights are enshrined in the Slovenian Constitution. These rights are no more at risk than an inefficient economy, unfortunately, especially that part that is in majority public ownership. The story of ineffective state ownership of companies is a story that is not only known by Slovenia, a story that is constantly being debated around the world and is largely driven to extremes. What is a question from this point of view, including constitutional rights, respect for constitutional rights and that in the part where social rights are protected in the Slovenian Constitution, is a question of the effectiveness of this part of the economy. The huge number of billions of euros that have been cemented in this property does not justify these investments, does not generate profits, does not strengthen common prosperity, and many different mechanisms have been tested in the past period. Everyone has proven to be ineffective, so the question is why what is now being offered as a solution is being tried to stop in this way by a referendum – when it is clear that Slovenia is valuable for maintaining constitutionally protected social rights when it comes to strengthening its economic development, to strengthen the performance of that part of entrepreneurship that is publicly owned, for weeks and months. The lost three disastrous years of the previous government can't be recovered. It's about trying to do what you can now. Better late than never. Procrastination is also, to put it mildly, irresponsible. And it's just stalling, that's all I'm sure of. Why, in fact, such a delay? On the one hand, it is clear that some structure in Slovenia, which was formed during a very wild ownership process, is an informal interest group, which was once connected to the LDS, and later became mainly part of the Zares framework, today with Positive Slovenia – that this group will be looking for a new tracker, a new leader tomorrow. Why? Since the president of this largest opposition party in the investigation, there has obviously been panic and attempts to force early elections or at least some change of power – at any cost, it costs this country what it wants, because it is panic, because they know that those who are actual rulers of power, the actual bearers of power in the transition left, have already raised their hands from their leader, and will probably sooner or later create a new image, a new force that will have several other faces at the head of the group will defend the same interest of this group, which is constantly overflowing and looking for ways to public funds, because it can cut very deeply into the pockets of taxpayers. So, of course, it is necessary to hurry and delay, and if this country destroys — who really cares about it there — power is important. Fortunately, not all parties are involved, far from this, and those who do not participate, but also if they are in opposition, thus proving that they can still think about the state. On the other hand, one wonders how it is possible for a political party who in the past had so much to say about some of the referendums that were carried out at the request of the trade unions — political statements then flew in a certain direction. Now, as a political party, even with the signatures of the people she had previously disgraced – which is also a very interesting informal link and talks about the rush and panic I was talking about – she is trying to stop that development step that is the only one on the table right now. There is no better proposal, but the current situation is that it certainly does not justify its continuation. On the contrary, it calls for action to be taken in a hurry. The policy of this party could be summed up in a single sentence. By doing so, the policy of Positive Slovenia is spread out as a joyous destruction, the joyous destruction of all the development potentials of Slovenia, the development possibilities and the attempt to completely block any changes in the defence of monopolies that have been created in the past period, and about which Mrs Battelli spoke so well of me – because instead of competitive elements, monopolies have been formed in various areas of both social life and, on the other hand, various areas of the economy. These monopolies were also channelled into media power through various ownership levers, and then political power was created from this, which led to the long-standing domination of one and the same in Slovenian politics. This is why resistance is now such that what Slovenia urgently needs must be blocked. But Slovenia urgently needs a competitive environment, Slovenia needs a more successful economy, because only a more successful economy, successful entrepreneurship, means a greater inflow, even to the budget, when individual entities can be less burdened and this means a greater addition to the common well-being. However, if this is stopped, it must be made very clear that at the moment it directly threatens, through the Constitution, the guaranteed right of citizens and citizens – from pensions to social rights, to health, school and all other protections, insurance and ratings enjoyed by people under the Slovenian Constitution. For if there are no inflows, there will be no money, there will be no prosperity, and as a result it has stopped those most urgent economic measures that would earn consensus and this consensus has also been sought and has been largely achieved by the current coalition and power. Now all these acts are denied, throwing themselves under the table, irresponsibly. On this basis, ladies and gentlemen, politics cannot be built in the long term. It is not possible to build development, and Slovenia is thus lost. He loses his economy, he loses his business, he loses his reputation in the world. In view of the threat to constitutional rights in this way, I firmly believe that it is justified to refer this question to the Constitutional Court and that the Constitutional Court will also consider the constitutional rights I am talking about. For I am firmly convinced that in this case they excuse the measure so that this referendum is not allowed in any way. Slovenia needs economic measures, Slovenia needs action, Slovenia needs development and only development and successful entrepreneurship bring prosperity.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The text is by Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič, Mr. Bojan Starman is being prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, welcome. So what we have before us is some sort of concluding act of unsuccessfully seeking compromise on really very important issues of the Slovenian future. Our party has always stressed in the process of adopting this legislation that the solutions you are offering are not good, it has also offered suggestions on how to change things, but the agreement has not been reached, so both actions, both the submission of a request for a referendum and your initiative to make a decision on the constitutionality of this referendum, are legitimate. I don't have a problem with that. The fact is that we have always had differences in how we thought about optimal management of our assets and, of course, we did not agree that the only change in the form you offer with certain solutions that we have confirmed are constitutionally controversial will not solve the problem and ensure better governance. We are now here and today deciding to confirm your application to assess the constitutionality of the proposal before us. I must say that, in my previous term as Chairman of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, I have often faced these demands and, after my official duty, I have also deepened much in the materials that were prepared to argue with the Constitutional Court for its assessment whether the requirements for a referendum in which you have so actively participated – don't be fooled – you triggered these reptiles in the previous term – have just justified that you would not allow the referendum. That's why I have quite a problem with your arguments. Today we hear a lot about political debates for and against, and very little talk about the arguments you have written in your material. I must say that I have great problems with your material and I sincerely hope that the Constitutional Court will also have them, because I agree with colleague Kociper – it has set terrible high standards for assessing when the referendum is allowed and when it is not allowed. I will only touch on the two arguments you have made, namely that the provision of social security or the implementation of Article 50 of the Constitution is at risk. What does Article 50 of the Constitution say in paragraph 2? The State shall provide compulsory health, pension, disability and other insurance and shall take care of their operation. How do you care? By providing conditions for the operation of the insurance system and also by ensuring that, under Article 233 of the current Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the difference between the income of the institution from contributions and other sources and the expenditure of the institution is covered. This obligation was also enshrined by the State in the new Disability Pension Insurance Act. So if you assume that this will better ensure that these incomes will be charged – of course we don't know how much this will be, because we don't know what 10% of the sale is, because we don't know how much you're going to sell. The fact is, every year we need a billion 400 thousand contributions from the budget itself. In short, these contributions may or may not be important. It's not that important. Your assumption may be true, but this does not prove the contrary to the current regime – and this is what we are talking about. You're referring to these arguments. Second point, you refer to the constitutional right to work protection. What does Article 66 say? The State creates employment and employment opportunities and provides urgent legal protection. All right, but again — what is the unconstitutional nature of what we have today? You can achieve better results with your holding company, which will result in new jobs. They will if they do when they do. You've already promised a lot of things, and we haven't seen any results. But where is — in view of what we have today — unconstitutionality? With this I have problems – with your arguments, when you prove unconstitutional, my dears, and I hope I will not be lonely here. Otherwise, let me end by thinking that there is still time, and if you are saying that another sober thought is needed, I agree – only, my dears, the offer is on your side. Do not rely on the opposition, which has so far taken advantage of all the opportunities it has had for a better arrangement, for what is most important — these laws that we are discussing today are laws that have irreparable consequences. That's why this resistance is so much bigger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Starman has the floor to prepare Mr Dragan Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. I have thought about the reasons cited by those who oppose the introduction of this law — whether they are weighty or not. And maybe I'll touch a few of those reasons that they're saying. One strong argument is that then we'll sell it all out. In any case, this State Holding Act does not facilitate sales. Even more transparent will be this sale than the current situation. In the current state, it is decided and can sell any share, and I see no reason why this state-owned holding company is wrong, and why this would lead to the start of a general sale of state property. I have repeatedly said that I personally strongly oppose this, and there are many countries that have a lot of state property, but they also have a lot of income. I spoke to the Minister of Economy of Finland once. There they have pooled finances, all the resources that bring new value, have a unit that runs state assets. I was surprised because there's a lot of him in this country. I said, "How is that?" They said that the only country was able after the war to create new facilities, industrial ones, etc., and is still a great owner and therefore masters a specialised team that brings EUR 5 to 6 billion a year in dividends to the budget of this property. Very simple. So I don't see why, and like I said, I'm not for some sale. Then we listen to everything that the devil is going to do here now the government will take power and work on its own and so on. I just don't get it. As long as we have been following this matter, it has always been the government that has responded and has been obliged to have it and to create and manage it, always and everywhere. The Slovenian Development Society Assembly, which also had one economic restructuring function, was the government, the Kada Assembly is the government, the Soda Assembly is the government, because the state is the owner and there can be no different. In doing so, the government can help itself to get legal and other advice, and there is nothing different here or even too little – I hope that the government is aware that it will still have full responsibility for the results of this society, which will be led by specialists specialising in this matter. Then it was obvious that we did not know what values were being transferred to this holding company. We know exactly the numbers. I even mentioned them earlier. On 31 December, the book value of all companies’ shares was EUR 8 billion 835 million, the total value of all companies in which the country has a stake of EUR 12 billion 535 million, after the state of 31 December. Of course, this changes – if a company has a loss, its capital must be reduced in the following year to cover the loss from the capital and this is coordinated across the board. Of all of these, and then these references to some unconstitutionality and all of these things, I don't really get one argument why people are opposed to it, and that's why I've been thinking and looking. There's only one argument. The fact is that these companies seem to be so important to the transfer of money for this purpose, that some are afraid to reveal what is happening in these companies – through all the things that are completely legal, which no one will ever pursue, through huge accounts for intellectual services, counselling, notary matters. Here's a bunch of things that this state-owned company can sit on, a whole series of things -- to who's going to put the flowers on one end. Here we know what's going on in companies, what's right and what's wrong. There must be a huge amount of unjustified costs in these companies and a huge spillover into those authorised persons who are in the corridor. I see no other reason and I am sad because some here are so scrupulously defending themselves that they would retain these privileges in these companies to maintain this power and in no way deviate from it. I don't see another reason, so I'm sad that we've been talking about these things for so long and that we don't allow one other option, which I say is not ideal. I said – perhaps it would be possible to achieve the same through the changed form of AUKN, in another way. But I have already proposed in some place in 2004 – it is sad that we are not able in this country to combine state property in one place and to ensure uniform rules of the game and one systematic control. For years, almost 10 years ago, I talked about it. Just as I said – why for God's sake do we not know one institution in the government to invent to help all users of European funds to take care of logistics, not that we have seen separately each year that we cannot make use of these European funds. This marriage is not ideal, but it's the only one we have now. We also have the opportunity to change it if something catastrophic turns out to be, just give it a chance to start working in this area because this status quo – I really don't know why it's abstaining – and I ask you once again to consider these signatures and to start dealing with the issue alone. One more time about the numbers. Last year there were 135 million losses from state property from state-owned enterprises. A year ago, €394 million. I argue that good governance in these companies is certainly possible to generate at least 800 million to billions of euros in profits. We do not need to burn everything through the state budget – half of it should remain for development in industries such as the electricity system, telecommunications. It is right to stay where it is created, because there will be the most quality jobs to be created. But something can come. It seems that when we talk about what matters, what doesn't matter is that we really don't know how to explain these dimensions. Our GDP fell from 38.5 billion to 36 billion euros. Our budget for next year is 8 billion 600 million revenue and 9 billion 500 million spending, still one billion minus. This year we planned a billion 70 million, and it's coming. The number of 500 million or 800 million is extremely important and has an enormous impact on the wallets of all our citizens – whether they have to pay less tax or can receive less wages than they have, or not need forgiveness and all these things. But we are pretending that this is irrelevant – we will do everything we can to leave the situation as it is, to "afne paddle" as someone said before. There's no surveillance here, we're going to do everything we can to make sure he's gone, and we're going to make it possible for the situation as it is. No one is going to tell me that this is a good thing to do, that they are rationally mastering themselves and that they are driving. One more thing about these numbers. We talk so much about these ratings, and these things, what are the costs of borrowing. We have read that our credit rating has fallen, that debt costs will increase by 0.5%. I don't know – don't we know what that means? 0.5% is 100 million per year. If we're about, let's say, simplified, 20 billion owes, it's 0.5% 100 million a year! 1% is 200 million a year. And look, when you look at those numbers when we're fighting inside the budget, what 200 million means. We don't even know now – if we had to restore all the loans, all of them 20 billion, that would be a billion 400 million. Tomorrow we should draw another 700 million out of our budget – this should be deleted by whole categories of expenditure. We don't even know that. Do you know that Germany owes 0.5% on the market? And we're at 7%! We are simply here in front of all our constituents who are watching us, playing with their money, wasting it in every way possible, and we are not able to say bob beans and say, "Let's do something for these people." Thank you very much. I will support this judgment, and I hope it comes to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Dragan Bosic has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u52	Yeah, that's me. So I can confirm my identity – I hope that without DNA analysis and fingerprints. The same thing about the signature is my signature, and if you look at me well, I'm probably working pretty seriously to let anyone manipulate my signatures. For starters. Second thing. Time for the submitted referendum or initiative for the holding referendum. It's really late, it's like 5 before 12 or 15 before 12 o'clock, but there's one thing that doesn't go on like an appropriate explanation. I worked as a water rescuer for a while, and there we warned one gentleman that the pool wasn't well taken care of. Then one little girl drowned and a dilemma that is not at all – you jump and save her. Here I have a feeling it would be very good to let him drown and then say, "I warned you, but you didn't do anything." I agree that this referendum is very problematic, even because it is expensive because it is some means that will be used to do so. But I think it is justified and also an argument that we should not leave the citizens to the things they do not understand, as I have heard from the predecessor, that it is not responsible, that they can then speak only of the government. I made one small pre-referendum to justify my decision. I asked people -- they're probably not the same people you're talking to. I asked if they believed that my signature for the referendum initiative threatened their future. The answers were very interesting, but one answer was very transparent. No, by no means, our future is at stake at the moment — if the government were to say so, I would answer to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the word, prepare yourself for the Mag. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government. We are at a very serious moment in our country, when the whole European Union and also those who are strong in money and finance and who are deciding in this world how some countries must behave in the financial field, we are faced with our opposition trying to block the country in every way. I am sure that your plan to get the country into a much larger blockade is significantly worse than that of extreme detail, because, forgive me, you are a party to the capital, you are representatives of the capital, and it is regrettable that some of you do not realize that you are victims of that part of the capital, which was not obtained honestly, which was obtained by the robbery of Slovenian banks, by the tacuna takeovers and others, in my opinion, unlawful, especially the unacceptable, unethical and immoral majority, who have fallen into despair and taken away the future of the next generation or a large part of the next generation. But we are politicians and, of course, in this assembly, in this house, we must work for the good of the country. At least one of us is aware of that. Of course, it is clear to me that, as already mentioned today, this Law on the Slovenian State Holding and this referendum is almost the so-called collateral damage to the law on the so-called bad bank. You have expressed it several times, and we have seen the strong fear of people in your party to enforce what is stated in Article 33 of the Bad Bank Act, which is to open credit cards, to see who approved credits without covering and who received them. And, of course, the provision that for such, these are crimes, limitation periods, the lengthening of the criminal offence shall be extended four times so that these people do not escape the time limit of justice. The original plan and the original plan is to block it. Regrettably, the President of the Republic also cooperated with his request that the government withdraw the law. The government should withdraw the law. I do not believe that the President of the Republic, as a lawyer, knows the alphabet of parliamentary procedures and the rule of law in this country. He sacrificed himself with a legal fiasco for the good of those who robbed this country. I hope that if today he had a conversation with President Virant that he apologized to Parliament for having so gravely attacked Parliament's powers and demanded that the government withdraw the law that is owned by Parliament and this time's procedures. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, do not convince us that you were guided by good and noble purposes. Maybe someone, maybe naive. A woman who knew what the issue was, however, used all the funds uncompromisingly. First through transmission, through unions, through the State Council. Since that didn't work, then you did this maneuver five minutes before 12:00. In doing so, you thought the job would be easier, the job had been done before, and you were not preparing yourself, and you made some technological mistakes that broke out of your hands — the bad bank law. However, you have obviously made a political suggestion that a referendum on the Slovenian State Holding is also sufficient to block the country, for the total destruction of this country. I am also surprised that you have such similar writings in your parliamentary group that you can be very practical, rational and with similar writings, and that, say, to Mr Gaspar Gaspar, you do not trust Wilphan to sign for him – that is how he guarantees. That's such an incontrovertible detail. When you continue your short signature course, I'll go too, because I also have a long last name. It is also important to look at some of the words that have been said here today when colleague Frangež said that it is unacceptable to account for the will of Members. The fact that a constitutional review is required has often been carried out by the previous government and legitimately and in accordance with the Constitution. Last week, the President of the Republic tried to account for the will of Members when he proposed that the government withdraw the law that he was adopting and which is in the possession of this National Assembly. This was the vote of the Members and the will of the people. But for a higher purpose – how to prevent this country from coming to the day who robbed the banks and who received that money. I hope that we can also find out where this money went, where the tax havens went, and that through the enforcement of this law we will also draw some of this money back, that the children of the simpler parents will not be at school, with the goods that the social state should provide and could be if they were not looted. I hope that citizens will be so normal and smart that they will not vote for such technology when they want to cover up who stole in this country. It'll be decided on Sunday. Ladies and gentlemen, for this reason, do not say that the government is afraid of the people. Your owners fear the people, your owners fear the people. Those who hold your hand when you need to raise, those who fear the people and therefore block the countries with anarchy, with all the ways and possible moves to block this country from the mud, because those who have become rich and have money in safe, tax havens will, of course, be masters of this country and donkeys under foreigners, because the stranger will also be willing to do something for money. That is why I do not accept what Mrs Kociper said that people have asked them to do. People have asked you, I believe they've asked, but you're abusing the will of the people. People have already asked you to do something to find out where that money went. Because people are honest and naive and think you're doing what you say is demagogic and populism. But you have a pre-crystalized plan to outrun the people. For this reason, I must say that today it is a reference to the fact that you are winners – you have really been relative winners and you are still relative winners. You had the opportunity and you could make it happen, but you didn't know how to take advantage of these opportunities because of selfish human qualities, because of the prestigious struggles with your partners. If you think, colleague Kociper, that you are winners – I see on the Internal Policy Committee that at the same time you imagine that you are also the President of the National Assembly, that you have won those elections, because you are taking the floor against the procedure. As soon as I mention corruption in this country or what is sometimes connected, and today I see that even one of this famous Ljubljana family threatened with a gun when the Daczars came. I don't know what can be said here. As a result, it is high time for the government and this coalition, which is seriously striving to save this country from the courageous consequences, to let it do so. Mr Starman, a financial expert, told you how much we owe ourselves and how this money was undermined only last week when this request for a referendum was submitted and then the President's request that the government withdraw this law, contrary to the Constitution, of course. The credit card companies reacted immediately. Today the minister told us what index we were placed on because of your request for a referendum. Once again – your request for a referendum is not in the will of the people to solve the financial problems of this country, it is in the function of protecting those who have robbed this country. Only in the function of those — to remain forever on the levers of power, to continue to suck on this country and to get it where we do not want it. We want to save it, and I hope that our people will overlook so much that your demagogies will not accept it and that they will decide on Sunday that they will not support that policy that tries to cover up who robbed this country. It is in the interests of our children and our future generations that we must disclose, identify, process and bring this money back to the country to serve development and to ensure that our children are equal with other children in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u55	Mrs. Masha Kociper applied to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Chairman. The debate and its level say the most about Mr Jerovšk, so there is no point in losing words here. From Zoran Jankovic through the transition left to the presidential elections – this is a standard repertoire that we listen to on and on and on every committee at each session. It's pretty boring, I have to say. But I would only replicate in the work that concerns me and reply to him that now in Positive Slovenia we are seriously preparing and studying a solution to change the law on banks, where we will propose the right solution, or we will explore the possibility of withdrawing this business secret that this report has, and then see who has taken the credits that you like to talk about, because the law on banks that you are talking about has proposed a solution that is sand in the eyes of voters if you want to extend the limitation period for these crimes. Back to back, for crimes already committed, the old age, Mr Jerovšek, cannot be changed because it is retroactivity, even though it is unfair. Stick to the things you master, even though I don't know who they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Leila Hercegovac. Get Mr. Matjaž Han ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u58	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! The procedure is not discussed, Mr Jerovšek. I'm taught by experts. True, procedures are designed and can be misused. I can say that I did sign and sign under both laws with thought and reasoning. Why did I sign it? Because experts say both marriages are bad and harmful. I'm sorry, but I'm here to respect the profession and will of the people. It is those people of the current esteemed Prime Minister who do not view the government as a good host and say that they have negative experiences which give them doubts about the positive economic results and see the politicisation of the functioning of companies. A respected economist, Mr. Peter Kraljič, says: "Why should we sell good companies? One government promises something and the other government denies it. And after all, why can't smart people find a common language?" I'll get it over with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor to prepare Mr Roman Žveglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, Colleagues and colleagues! As in all debates so far, we are probably not going to reach one common nominee today, so I am not optimistic that my contribution to this debate will help us make a decision. Let me first say that I have no objection to the referendum and I personally do not buy the thesis that you all are saying – that the referendum costs anything. The referendum costs nothing. Not a single euro. This is the only money we give directly from the budget to people, to electoral committees, to Slovenian printers to squeeze some paper, and it seems to me that this money is then distributed among people back. From this point of view, it seems to me that this money is not spent if we speak of the nation’s decision on its conscience and its decision as it thinks it is right. It is true, however, that I would not have signed myself under this referendum as a Member, because I have always advocated the idea that our work of Members is to try to convince the other side by argument, particularly professionally, and to improve the laws given by any government. If we fail, we fail because if every Member signed the referendum, then we really block this country and we don't want to. I would like to know what the Constitutional Court will do – I will not comment – but if the Constitutional Court in the area of pension reform did not agree with the current government a year ago, then I hope that the current government will not be pleased and that this referendum will go on. Why did we get here? Because we have an extremely, extremely bad government, a government in which, except for the Slovenian People's Party, some parties are not credible. How could you say about a year and a half ago that the referendum you invested with the help of those unions at the time would not jeopardize the credit ratings so as not to endanger people's lives? There was no problem at the time, today, when we are not even talking about a law that is of a reform nature, but about a concept that you invented so that you can privatize the last property, and the problem is that generations will not be able to live on. That's not true, ladies and gentlemen, you're very improbable. It is simply not possible to trust your actions in the current government and in the government 2004-2008. I'm also going to argue why it's impossible to trust. Your confidence, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition – where are those strong proposals you made as opposition Members to save the economy in Slovenia with 100 laws and in some way to justify even greater socialism in Slovenia. All of a sudden, there are no such proposals. Either you had figs in your pocket at the time or you just don't know today. The economic policy you accept is not real. You have passed the Public Finance Balance Act by reasoning that it will help the economy. None of this has happened; the economy continues to choke in some way in its problems, and people live harder from day to day. Holding, which in some way you want to legislate or have already enacted to be more precise, is conceptually different as far as Social Democrats are concerned. Of course, we would still have the AUKN. AUKN was not a bad option, but it is true that it should be corrected in some segments. And you're putting all your assets in a stock company, and you'll be able to mix whatever you want. Mr Starman said at that time that the assets were falling, that stocks were falling and so on, but he was an economist, especially a crisis manager, and he could know that the situations in Slovenia and the world were significantly different than they were a few years ago and that this is also a normal one. As things get better in the world, our companies will also be much better off. Now I'm just gonna go back to why we don't trust you. I remember that you ruled between 2004 and 2008, when there was no AUKN and there was no holding company. How did Intereuropa end up, how did Luca Koper end up, how did Hit end up? We sold the Slovenian steel industry so that we subsidized them with electricity and got all the money back. What happened to Bavčar’s holding company, what about Shrot’s holding company, or Shrot’s holding company? That was all, ladies and gentlemen, in your mandate and it is very clear to me how you can do business in some way. How did Petrol buy Istrabenz? These are all mistakes, ladies and gentlemen, your governments, which ruled in 2004-2008, and now you want to make these things legal with holding company so that you can do what you want. I will wait for the Constitutional Court to say, vote in the referendum if there is a referendum, of course, as I think it is right and against this holding. However, I do not think it is right, and I will also conclude that Members and Members are making demands for referendums during these difficult times. This should be done by the unions. If the unions that you say our Social Democratics had the power in 2008 to break the pension reform, to break the labour legislation, I don't know why they don't have the power to break the biggest theft in 20 years of independent Slovenia – because Janez Janša was once again able to find a way to silence these unions and that's why I'm disappointed with the unions. I'm disappointed in the unions, even ours, as you tell them. So, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the Constitutional Court will not make this referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Two Romanos are on their turn, first of all Mr Roman Žveglič, to prepare Mr Roman Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u62	Honourable Vice President, dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues! I will not trouble myself with the request for a referendum, because I am sure that they have decided on their beliefs and will, of course, take full responsibility. As was taken over by the Slovenian People's Party in its previous mandate, which was not signed under the requirements of the referendums and which supported key government reforms in the previous mandate, although of course it was an opposition party. Although I do have to go to the referendum, which is a real human initiative, or to the so-called parliamentary referendum, a completely different attitude. But the referendum is a referendum. You say that marriage is bad and that it is inconsistent with other laws and the Constitution, so you would expect it to be judged by the Constitutional Court after its enforcement. But apparently you've made a different choice. All right. I do not accept the allegations of theft and sale under the new Slovenian State Holding Act. For after the current regime, the former or this government could sell anything without the consent of the National Assembly and without a strategy that we do not have. After the entry into force of the Slovenian State Holding Act, of course, this government will not be able to do so, not the following. Of course, the strategy adopted by the National Assembly will be crucial, whether one government or another, as in France, will be in power by Sarkozy or Hollande. However, I do not expect anyone to withdraw the signature under the request for a referendum, so I will support the constitutional opinion, respect the Constitutional Court's decision, as I have always done, and also the results of the referendum if it comes to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Jakič has the word, prepare the mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Let me begin by saying that my will under both requirements for the referendum is clearly expressed by my signature and can be verified. So much for a start. Another time. I believe that the time has come when trials will have to be internationalised, not only by experiments, but by the activities of this coalition and the Yangtze government, which are returning democratic standards to a time when it was not democratic for us. One of the stones in this mosaic is, of course, the playing of the will of men or the fear of human will. Although it began in the 1990s when Demos feared that people would not vote or go to a referendum on autonomy and demanded that the referendum be valid with 25%, but that is history. This term began after the elections, of course, when you played the will of the people who gave the most votes to Zoran Jankovic and his client, Positive Slovenia. It continued with all the discriminatory laws that, more than before, broke people apart and plunged them into the spiral of ideological strife and hatred. The will of people, what they think about it, can be read in public research. By the way, in the case of better than these public opinion polls, as they now show, regarding the government, the then opposition MEP, Mr Janša, in the previous mandate, called on Mr Pahor's government to step down immediately because he no longer has any legitimacy, but probably this Prime Minister is irreplaceable – as he says. In order to prevent the people's will in the referendum, you re-elected the method, in particular SDS, namely disqualification and discreditation. In this case, by creating doubts about the authenticity of personal signatures. You do this at all levels with the help of your spin-offs and court supporters and writings. I looked at the website where you wrote one article "The Court's Decision has once again put on the lie of President Türk" – or that Janez Janša won the affair of Velivec. It is true that the court dismissed the case for procedural errors. However, it did not say anything about the fact that the SDS framed the documents wrongly to the President of the State, defiled it in public on the basis of the same documents and then apologized, but only to the internet public, not to the President of the State. The question here is why Gregor Virant, president of the National Assembly in charge of the procedure, held the union's initiative in the drawer for 14 days before he gave it to Dr. Gorenak. They lost several hundred signatures in the middle. If what Mr Virant has just said to the public at the press conference is true, that these signatures have actually been lost – if that is true, this puts us aside from the irregularities that are taking place in Ukraine. There goes the ballots, the signatures after the elections. The question is also raised why Mr Virant kept the result of the MNZ check in his drawer for 4 days and gave it to the union 15 minutes before the deadline, knowing that he would not be able to complete the application with 150 missing signatures. You're trying to trap us into a procedural debate. The very debate on the procedure, as has already been said, is in some ways to prevent the opposition's work, is to kill the debate on content. This is what you do permanently – you kill the debate on content, but you go back to who signed it and to which line has signed its signature. In essence, the government does not want this referendum because it is afraid of the will of citizens and citizens, but, above all, it is afraid that we are right that this law is a cover for the non-transparent sale of state property. But if you think otherwise, and you are confident of the opposite, then go to the referendum, and let John Janša tie the outcome to his confidant.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u66	Mr President, given that the fact that the President of the National Assembly had stated at a press conference that so many and so many ballots had disappeared where citizens and citizens had made their views clear under the Referendum Act and on the People's Initiative, we do not know what and how and if everything was okay and that he had initiated an internal investigation. At least what it is, is that this assembly here in this Chamber knows a little bit more and learns a little bit sooner than what the President of the National Assembly reports at a press conference. I therefore propose that we suspend the meeting and that the President of the National Assembly convene the College of Presidents and inform the leaders of the parliamentary groups, as this raises a question even to the story that is going on today. Why? If what I hear is true, we should really discuss two legislative requirements today. However, since the procedure is only until 12 p.m. and this is clear to you all, I want the Legal and Legal Service to also tell you what to do in this case. Because I am afraid that otherwise we will have a serious legal and democratic complication, and I do not want us to go crazy and discuss only one request here, but that the President of the National Assembly will explain how we are going to proceed. I therefore propose that you suspend the meeting and that the President of the National Assembly convene the College of Leaders of the Group of Members without delay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I don't have that information that you obviously have. I expect the President of the National Assembly to inform the National Assembly accordingly. Therefore, there is no reason at this time for us to interrupt this debate. I give the word, as I say, mag. Damjani Petavar Dobovšek. Let's get the mags ready. Ivan Vogrin. Procedurally, Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u68	Given that you will not respect – as always – my proposal, which was weighted, reasoned, and no one can deny it to me right now because all the media are reporting, we are just pretending to be ignorant here. As Head of the Positive Slovenia Group, I request a maximum of 45 minutes of rest to decide how we will proceed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u69	You'll get it and you can demand it before making a decision. Now the debate is on. Like I said, mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek, prepare the mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u70	Thank you, President, for your word. The Slovenian State Holding Act is one of the planned measures of comprehensive reform in Slovenia, but we have already talked a lot about the content of this law and we have talked a lot over the past three months. Much has already been said, that is, in substance, and the substantive reasons for this law have already been given. For three months, a dialogue was opened, and we participated in both the coalition and the opposition. In the framework of the working groups, experts who were respected by the opposition also participated in the proposal. Finally, we have aligned ourselves with the representative unions. With a goal, that is, with a serious purpose [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u71	The word has magic. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek, please rest for peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u72	Thank you, Chairman. The harmonisation and adoption of this law was aimed at preserving Slovenian sovereignty at all costs. I ask you, the well-respected opposition, who else would you like to talk to, who else would you like to put on the stand? About the content, as I've already said, that's enough. In the final phase, dialogue can also amend this law after its entry into force. In this particular case, however, there is another matter. Today we are talking about the responsibility that the group wants, namely, the Positive Slovenia, together with three other Members, to transfer to the people by submitting a request for a referendum. Today we are talking about the responsibility of these 30 Members, namely, Positive Slovenia and the three Members, when they put their political interests ahead of constitutional sovereignty. Personally, I find it extremely irresponsible to place the responsibility on the people. Do you think, I ask you, Positive Slovenia and the three Members, is the people competent to decide fiscal matters? Let me remind you, honourable Members of Positive Slovenia, in your founding programme on 22 October 2011, you wrote down, quote: "The referendum chill prevents the functioning of constitutionally recorded parliamentary democracy and on the shoulders of citizens introduces a referendum democracy that prevents decision-makers from taking responsibility for ever more difficult decisions." So much for the principle of Positive Slovenia. While it is legitimate to apply for a referendum, I am asked whether, given the seriousness of the situation in the country when such important issues are decided, it is legitimate for a group of Members to put their political interests ahead of sovereignty? But that's legitimate, I'm asking you. I also rightly wonder whether Positive Slovenia and a group of three other Members are even capable of sober thinking and sober judgment as to the consequences of this action. The Minister explained how the international financial market reacted to this unwise move and reacted immediately with regard to the return on dollar bonds sold, with regard to the reduction of credit ratings, as regards the ability of the State to provide guarantees, including for TEM 6. In all these cases, Slovenia will be affected and its sovereignty will be affected, whether the proposal for a constitutional assessment be declared unconstitutional or not. I find it extremely irresponsible that Positive Slovenia sets its political interests against the protection of Slovenian sovereignty. The loss of Slovenian sovereignty also means the loss of human dignity and human rights for every individual in Slovenia. Whether this is a state-of-the-art act, I ask you, Positive Slovenia and three Members. What, then, will you say when there is no money for the pensions that the law we are talking about, the Slovenian State Holding Act, guarantees – what will you then do? Where is your national consciousness, Positive Slovenia and three Members of Parliament, I ask you again. This is not a national move and such a party, in my opinion, will never be credible and will never be established in the euro area, because Europe is watching you and Europe is watching you. I was hoping that this manoeuvre of yours was like some squeamish act in effect – obviously it was in effect because you made a mistake in filing a request for a bank law and I still hope, honourable Members of Positive Slovenia and the other three signatories, that you will withdraw the request. Otherwise, of course, I support the proposal for a constitutional judgment and I hope that the Constitutional Court of Referendum will not allow it. In the event that the referendum is reached, I hope that people or our citizens and citizens will vote in favour of the Slovenian State Holding Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin, prepare Mr Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! My modest contribution would begin with why I supported the government of Janez Janša and the then candidate for prime minister. Because I was sure and I'm sure he's a competent man to run the government. I've made up my mind, despite many drownings, why I'm going to make a different decision. That's my decision. Why did I sign a referendum request for both marriages? Because I think marriages are bad. Tell me, I ask Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the general public – do I, as a Member, have the right to think? I have the right to work. Do I have the right to make my own decisions or not? Because if I don't, then let me know clearly and I won't think and I won't work. I've both made up my mind because I think it's the right thing to do without any external influence. About why marriages are bad, I have spoken in the process of adopting laws, and I would not repeat them because I do not have much time. But I'm going to make an argument with some serious evidence. These are the property certificates we received in 1993. I didn't put them in – come take a look. My family's certificates are here because, at the time, I was relatively young, I said to myself that I would not participate in this place of social property. Here are the certificates. I was young enough, and I said I'd grow what I needed. What happened? 20 years later, only rare individuals benefit from this property. They are bad marriages and, of course, they can be changed. This was also noted by the President of Parliament and directly or indirectly acknowledged that a change could be made in the sense that the Court of Auditors had control, that this information was public information and that a different composition of the Supervisory Board could be made. That's what he said. I had a conversation with him, too. I expect us to stop betting and taking on each other's dignity because we have already taken enough of ourselves by the fact that the country is bankrupt. We spend more than we produce. When you spend more than you produce, you're broke. I have the right to decide, I have made my own decision on the basis of my own reflection, and of course I will do everything possible to amend the legislation and that the referendum will not take place. It is possible that there will be no referendum, but it is necessary to start listening and also to take into account those experts who think a little differently. I read a statement by President Türk and the President of Parliament here on the Internet: "There is a way to avoid the referendum." Let's find this way. Maybe we can find her, choose her, we just have to make up our minds. The referendum is just an emergency exit. In connection with any decision I make, there's always my company, my personal belongings. My company's credits, unlike many loans, are secured by mortgage on the company's assets and by my own guarantee. Where are the people who did this? That's when you made decisions that were fatal to the country and left a few billion holes, the Public Sector Wages Act, etc. Where are you? Show yourself, sign a personal guarantee, and let's adopt legislation that most people don't think is right. But there's a way to get a good piece of legislation. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u75	Unfortunately, you're out of time. Next up is Mr. Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everyone. First of all, I would like to thank my colleague Dobovšek for mentioning us so many times, Positive Slovenia. As far as dignity is concerned — at the same time, there is a place of voice by the unions or it has happened, and we are talking or talking a lot about dignity. If this is not an evaluation of people's rights, then I wonder where we're going next. So much for that. Around the holding company. I wondered at the beginning of the takeover of power by John Janša and his CK, what was in fact his basic guide to take power in their own way. The amount of personal income is probably not because this money cannot even repay annuity for a relatively high loan. The reason was and is the loot left of the first term, this gold and silver, this 13 billion euro. The way and means to achieve the goal – they took the example in Hungary, according to a friend of Orban. Such holding companies have established post-socialist countries in the 1990 ’ s, Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, because only one goal was to privatize property quickly and without complications. Hungary thus lost its assets and the analysis showed huge corruption. That we don't lose words about Orban totalitarianism. This same CK, of course, already has practice from its first term. Mercator's disputed sale in 2005 in conjunction with Bavčar and Shrot. The Slovenian steel industry, sold in suspicious circumstances in 2007 for a weak €105 million – more than €700 million has been invested before. General navigation where the so-called sample sale case was referred to. In fact, it means giving a fox to look after our chickens. In this case, of course, it's a fox. Since they're not going to change here, the rest of them who are with them in the coalition, you're doing a good job of helping us with the coalition contract. This coalition contract, this love novel between a woman and four men, of course, this love cannot be honest and cannot last long. There's nothing left but a referendum you don't want, because that means you're afraid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sasha Kos has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! My will under both requirements for the referendum is clearly expressed and can be verified. Furthermore, Mr Virant, as President of the National Assembly, who is in charge of the exercise of the constitutional right to referendum, has accepted my own-time signature under the referendum requirement on the Slovenian State holding company, so I expect that in today's debate we will no longer try to see the alleged credibility of the signatures in question, but that we will face arguments as to the meaning of the referendum invitation and the requirement that the Constitutional Court verify whether the referendum or the non-admission of the Slovenian State Holding Act would lead to possible anti-constitutional consequences. I myself assess, with regard to the proposal for a decision on the request of the National Assembly, that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia decide whether the suspension of the application of the Slovenian State Holding Act or its rejection at the referendum might have constitutional consequences that the arguments do not, however, hold up serious professional judgement and also those arguments do not in any way demonstrate any possible anti-constitutional consequences. Moreover, it seems absurd to me that the ruling coalition – and the government agrees – affirms the unconstitutionality of the referendum, while many experts point out that it is in fact inconsistent with the Constitution and point to violations of Articles 146 and 148 of the Constitution. Certainly, as colleagues and colleagues from Positive Slovenia have already said, we are not in favour of this or have decided before the elections that we will not generally support the referendums. However, as to what happened to the unions or their signatures and, of course, the harmfulness of both laws, I believe that it was a matter of forcing us to enter this path that is not at all close to us and of course we want the matter to be resolved in one way or another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u79	Thank you very much. It's mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, a nice welcome. I think we're all feeling uncomfortable here today. We feel uncomfortable because I believe that each of us knows that the referendum story in Slovenia is a bad story. We have experience a year ago when the referendums when the government adopted the necessary laws were when the referendums, when the National Assembly passed the necessary laws — when the referendums actually destroyed Slovenia. Until those referendums Slovenia was also at interest rates in the group of countries in which Germany, Austria, were also present. After those referendums, we have become a strange child among the 27-member family, 26 of which have legislation in place in the referendum, and we have it regulated in a way that causes abuse. We have this bitter experience, and if we did not have it today, Slovenia would be in a significantly better position, and things would not be ideal, because the crisis is present in Europe, in the world, and otherwise would be in Slovenia, but they would be better. So the referendum is not a good thing. However, the question then is whether the laws are so bad that they nevertheless make excuses for the referendums which some Members and Members have called. My answer here is simple – the laws are even worse than the damage the referendum itself in Slovenia can do. Even if there was no last-minute decision, at 10-11 p.m., I believe that there were more signatures under the referendum initiative and not only 30 and that is probably the only reason that signatures are only 30. This is also one direction in Positive Slovenia – please give a nice, not every day to change your attitude, be more consistent with it. Now there's something else I'd like to say. The laws are bad, the law on holding does not actually have any effect on the resolution of the acute crisis in which Slovenia is, and everything else spoken here today is demagogy. This law, as it is written, allows people who have done tremendous economic damage in Slovenia in 2003-2008 to do so from now on – if the law is in force – in a legalised way. That is why this law must be rejected, although it has no effect on the acute resolution of the crisis in which we are present. Of course, the bad bank law is completely different – banks need to be rehabilitated immediately. I am sorry that the coalition has chosen a model that is more complex, which is significantly more expensive and which takes more time to give effect than a model of recapitalisation. At this point, however, it must be said that there is a feeling that we are moving significantly faster in the direction of dictatorship than we hoped it would be possible in the centre of Europe. Recent Events — Nearly 400 signatures disappear from this National Assembly, for the President of the National Assembly to order some kind of investigation into where these signatures are! Do you know where you brought us?Oh, my God! You have brought us into a group of countries that are not a city in the European Union, nor in Europe! Do you even know what that means? Or that part of the ruling policy is sent to the College of Presidents of the National Assembly by the police — let them read what you said in peace. This is because the walk into the darkness, the arrival of the dictatorship – this is not the process that happens by clicking on the button, this is the process in which every movement of the tolerance limit, which you have moved twice in this week, leads you to wake up and say, "What have I done in the last weeks and months to allow the march into the dark society?" Therefore, honourable Members – in fact, I appeal to all here present, with me – now is the time to take up the air in peace, to realize that we are the only representatives of citizens and citizens in this country, to take a step or two back, and to realize that we are the ones responsible, that we are taking this country back on a path, and that in this country, when we can agree, without irritating people, we will find solutions that, when it comes to such billions, are coordinated between the opposition and the coalition and thus allow some rays of optimism in the country to be resowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u82	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, but before I begin the debate, as I have outlined, I have something to say in the beginning. What my fellow Member, Mr Dejan Židan, has just said goes beyond all the limits of good taste. Mr Dejan Židan, at least what I would expect of you, because you were a minister, is to know that we have never accepted any signatures, we have not been able to lose them, and we have no influence on where those signatures are, and it is clear who in Parliament has accepted the signatures, which are those professional services that are responsible and where the Secretary-General of the National Assembly is responsible! Let us turn to these services and let them explain together with the President of the National Assembly what has happened, not condemn us Members and Members and our Members to cook in the background of some conspiracy! How can you afford such a thing as a man who was a government minister in this country years ago?Oh, my God! Therefore, I am no longer surprised that in the three years that you led this country, you brought this country where it is today. Ladies and gentlemen, when we are talking about the referendum, how can any parliamentary group in the National Assembly sitting here justify to the Slovenian people that we spend again 3 million euros or more when we have a budget that is practically empty when we cut pensions for the pensioners?.... The question of when will we have the money or if we will have it, if we go this way, so that the disabled will be able to get the disability, so that the workers will get paid and so on. This government has adopted certain laws, which are of paramount importance at this point in time, if we are to bring this country out of the misery in which you, too, have brought it, dear fellow Mr Židan, who was in the government at that time. With this law, we certainly are trying to resolve what is to be resolved in this country and therefore I cannot defend any referendum, and it is also right that we have decided to refer this to the Constitutional Court. How the Constitutional Court decides is another issue. At the same time, I now call on the entire Slovenian public, if it happens that the Constitutional Court decides otherwise, that if this law goes to the referendum to support this law because it is absolutely necessary – it is one of the five anti-crisis measures to get this country out of the mess it has come to. It is imperative that this law be adopted. This law will improve the management of state property. This law will bring together a large majority or most of all state property managers under one roof, and thus we will get better, cheaper, more transparent management of state property. There's no way we can say that this has been the case so far. Governance of state assets was extremely poor, as we did not receive dividends in the state budget or very little, and this needs to change. We all know that this is how things in this country can no longer work. The minister told me today, and I'm pinning it on him. The government has definitely done everything in its power to find agreement to agree that there would be no need for meetings like this today to avoid discussing the referendum. It is only, my dear colleagues and colleagues, that we can negotiate with anyone if on the other hand there is also a willingness to agree on anything. But the opposition was playing with a fig in their pocket, squeezing trade unions. The smart government found a solution and agreed with the unions to withdraw the referendum initiatives. Therefore, five minutes before midnight, this request for a referendum was submitted. Is this a responsible act for our citizens and citizens, for our people?Oh, my God! Does anyone tell me if this is a responsible act?Oh, my God! Spending the last few euros in the state treasury. How can you afford that?Oh, my God! The Minister has made it very clear today what the consequences will be if this law is not adopted. He said, and this is what we have already learned today – credit rating houses have already begun the process of reducing credit ratings. This will also result in a significantly lower value of state property. Now we're saying that the value somewhere is about 10 billion. If the matter goes that way and we listen to the opposition, it'll only be six months from now, or even less. Where we will get new money to finance banks, banks that will lend loans to the economy, so that we can start with economic growth, new jobs and so on. You're trying to block everything, you're doing everything you can to save this country from this mess! Last week or a month ago, I heard that we were talking about the sale of Slovenian gold. I've already heard about the sale of Slovenian silver today! If it goes another month or two, we'll talk about selling old iron. You're taking this country that far. You're taking this country so far that we won't talk anymore about silver, not gold, but old iron. You want to destroy this country in any way. I don't know what motives. Are those individuals, those privileged people, those thieves who stole the banks, emptied the banks and hid behind whom? Let's start thinking about trying to get together and get this country out of this difficult situation. As far as the submission of the referendum is concerned. Once again – I cannot accept the fact that you left five minutes before midnight to take this initiative. If we had serious intentions, we'd do it in a way that's kind of normal. This one was insane, I hope to say. Because, as you have found, despite the fact that what you have tried to achieve through trade unions you have failed, you have chosen this only option and have definitely done great damage to our citizens and citizens. I'll say it again – we'll give the money again. Once again, we spent the last euro we had in the state treasury. From what I have just said, it is clear that I will support the initiative to bring this proposal to the Constitutional Court. As I have said before, I call on the entire Slovenian public not to fall for these attempts by the opposition to block this government and lead this country to a point from which there would no longer be an exit.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u83	Replica, Mr. Jew, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u84	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Thank you, fellow Member, for bringing me up. Nevertheless, allow me to read to you the words of one of the leaders of your coalition – Mr Virant: "Yes, the unions' signatures have been lost." 307 signed papers have come to the National Assembly, and 271 signatures have been returned from the Ministry, which your client is leading. At this point, I think we are rapidly approaching an investigative commission of some kind. I can see very clearly what you have done now — with your finger you have shown the professional service of the National Assembly. That means you've already figured out something stinks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u85	We continue the debate. Please be quiet. It's my colleague, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In Novi Slovenija we support the establishment of the Slovenian State Holding. The establishment of the Slovenian State Holding is one of the government's measures to halt negative economic trends. At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, we listened to Umar's poor forecasts of gross domestic product in the following year – the fall of GDP by 2.5%. Further debt in foreign markets will be needed to cover the public deficit. These foreign markets are closely monitoring us and finding that we are not in a position to reach political consensus on the most important measures in Slovenia. As a result, credit ratings are falling and debt in foreign markets will soon be no longer possible. One wonders whether in the opposition they want Slovenia to apply for international financial assistance? We are all aware that the conditions for its acquisition will be dictated by others, and these conditions will be much worse. These institutions will give us economic policy, pension rules, the number of employees in the public sector. Again, I wonder if the opposition wants us to lose the sovereignty we've gained so hard 21 years ago?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Before we proceed, I ask my colleagues for at least so much correctness if they are already chatting that they are talking a little more quietly that the debaters will be able to say what they want in peace. And the next one is mag. Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present, colleagues and colleagues. Days 30. Ten. 2012 The Group of Members and Members submitted two requests – a request for a referendum on the Slovenian State Holding Act and a request for a referendum on the so-called bad bank. The reason why I did this is that I similarly replied to journalists in the past days who bombed me with a similar question and is essentially simple. Already in the procedure of the National Assembly or in the context of the vote, I have said in explanation of my vote that, in the case of a bad bank, I am more supportive – even for reasons that have been explained to me by experts – of the model of recapitalisation, and not of the coalition model offered. I also prefer to support the organisation or management of state property in terms of the principle already stated today – management in one place and ownership elsewhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u89	Can I have your attention again?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u90	I also find it strange — perhaps even understandable from their point of view — that the coalition or coalition MPs and Members somehow do not understand our legitimate right to submit this request. I understand, however, their legitimate right, which we are actually making today, is what the proposal for a decision on the request of the National Assembly that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia decide whether the suspension of the Act on Slovenian State Holding or its refusal to refer to the referendum could have counter-constitutional consequences. Let us leave this decision to the Constitutional Court, and I certainly do not question their decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u92	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all present. Remember, the government has also insisted that more time should be taken to reflect on legislation, both proposals for a law – holding and a bad bank – presented in autumn. The experts of the Ministry of Finance have been sitting with the opposition all summer. You have made many suggestions that are included in both laws. Last but not least – also at the request of the opposition, we removed the bank's rehabilitation from the holding company. That's why we're so much more disappointed in your decision, the well-respected opposition, that the joint effort, yours and ours, is thus discarded. The Civil Code does not claim that the Slovenian State Holding Act is complete, but we claim that it is an expertly appropriate and substantively good basis for the problems we face. It will enable policy withdrawal from the economy. The exit from the economy does not reduce the state's assets, it would be reduced if it were used for current consumption. We can't do that because it's already forbidden by the Public Finance Act. In particular, the Citizens' List wants restructuring in terms of exit from poor investments and entry into better investments where policy will not have a controlling share. We have a 27% share in Vegrad, and you can figure out how much it was worth today and how much it was, for example, 10 years ago. In the light of the latest issue of bonds and economic trends, it is becoming increasingly evident that both our economy and the state treasury are living on borrowed time. Additional months of delay in the implementation of any key law should not be allowed, but we can no longer afford it. If we ask for international financial assistance, foreign parliaments will discuss Slovenia. This means a loss of sovereignty, which is the basis of our Constitution, and that is why I will also support the constitutional review initiative, and yet I call on this place to find an agreement that would mean overcoming the contradictions that led to the request for a referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music. I'd like to ask my colleagues on this side, if they can be a little quieter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u94	Vice President, thank you. Today, all of us here present Members and Members of Parliament are full of mouth, how we wish this country well, how we are aware of our responsibilities. But I feel that we are not aware of our responsibilities, because if we were aware of the real responsibility and felt this responsibility, we would not do what we do. All that needs to be done in these laws that we are talking about, in the Slovenian State Holding Act and in that bad bank law, is that the coalition or government – because this coalition is just a voting machine of the government – does not give up control. If control were better – to make a two-member government out of the opposition and out of a coalition or position. Give this to us, and then there will be no referendums. You forget that you do not manage your own property, which is owned by the coalition, but you manage property and decide the fate of all citizens and citizens and property that remains in this country. Therefore, it is not permissible to prevent transparent operations, even preventing the holding company from being bound by information of a public nature. That it is even clearly exposed not to be watched over the holding by the Court of Auditors — then to whom is this holding intended? We're transferring state property to some stock company and "smooching papal" and then no one controls it, gentlemen. Why? What is mine is not yours, what is yours is not mine, but what is ours together – but here the matter ceases. Not only will you decide about our common assets, nor will I, and it is more logical that you must allow all of us to have control over the common assets. That would be fair. Since this is not enshrined in this law and because this law prevents clear and transparent business and governance of state property, we cannot support it. It's not the purpose of the referendum, people of God, I have knowingly and sovereignly signed for both marriages to go to the referendum, because that's the last thing we have left. What I'm hearing today is that you lost and that you found some signatures from the union. Now you're all acting like, "Oh, me? No, no, it's not me, it's not me who's dead." Yes, men of God, this is not normal! From the beginning of this call from day to day, the National Assembly has been under worse light. How do people look at us? Now that I was at home during the holidays, I watched and watched some of the inserts and wondered whether I was leaving Portorož to Ljubljana at all, or whether I should say that I am not going to the National Assembly anymore, because I am already ashamed to be here and that we are deciding and adopting laws that do not encourage but hinder the development of this country. All I want is for working people in the country of Slovenia to have conditions for work and a decent life. All of us are full of mouths, if that's what we want – then let's make a deal. Why don't you let us control our common assets? Who's got their hands against that capital? You don't even have a management strategy, you have no concept, people of God, you don't even have an evaluation of what you have. You have nothing – what is the recovery rate at a bad bank, what are the estimates, how things will be passed on to whom. Why don't you publish this information on the website of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government and the National Assembly, and why don't you put it on the table? Why?Oh, my God! Why are certain shares of Zvon One, Zvon Two sold at Nova Ljubljanska Bank? Why are they in a hurry to sell? The auctions happen every week. You have asked us to be judged by the Constitutional Court on the possible unconstitutional consequences, and I call on citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to judge the consequences of this Law on Slovenian State Holding and to leave them on the shoulders of citizens and citizens. In the end, we have found many times that everything that happens wrong — the wrong decisions in this temple of democracy, the wrong decisions every time, every time — are borne by the most socially endangered citizens and citizens. Is that fair? Workers, pensioners, disabled persons and many others who are not at all guilty of being imported. That's why people have to resist. The only right is to resist as arrogant authorities and governments as it is today. In your previous reference, you predicted six or seven similar referendums, and everything was fine and right. Today, when we used as the last tool to prevent this absurdity, you control yourself. If you did not want to introduce the situation, if you really wanted to solve this spasm in which we found ourselves, you would propose a compromise – that you go ahead with the law, that we go into the adoption of a law amending and supplementing both laws and then that we solve the situation. We would change two to three articles to state that the opposition has an equivalent influence in control, in dealing with state property – and you have done the matter. Then all Members and Members of Parliament who have given their signatures withdraw their request for a referendum. Then the unions will no longer have a desire for any referendums. The referendum is not intended for a referendum, the referendum is intended to prevent the mess of this government! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Otherwise, I'm a little confused to start with my predecessor, but it seems to me that it's a shame to debate every second about someone who doesn't separate between the operation of the Capital Investment Management Agency and the functioning of the government. To begin with, despite the seriousness of the events, I would say something about the controversy with the signatures, because I really can't get past it. In these days, I have received several texts and e-mails, which in this world have shorter or longer signatures. I got the answer that some Indian actresses have long, indigestible names that they then shorten so that viewers can at least read them. On the other hand, we have cases like this when some hit triplets from impossible positions, and they miss the 3-centimeter difference between their signature and that line, but that's just the way things are. With regard to the legal nebulos of the President of the Republic, who boasts of a doctorate in law, they say enough of the students of the Faculty of Law, whether they will be in Ljubljana or Maribor, in the days when they speak of his legal theories. But enough about this, I will try to touch primarily the functioning of the AUKN and the state holding company or why the failure to enforce the law is one of the key blows under the belt of the opposition, which, in my opinion and also in the opinion of the coalition – that is why we have also put forward a proposal for a decision – can have devastating consequences for the functioning of the country. AUKN is a pure political project that has lasted longer than the same singing KAS. This AUKN is currently without a management strategy, which is not the responsibility of the government, but the AUKN. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Music – then we can say something. This non-management or non-strategic may be destructive to state property. There was a lot of talk about the Slovenian State Holding Act in the spring. Then we all decided before the parliamentary holidays to take our time. We have established a group, coalition, opposition and experts. Here I would point out all those who speak of so-called experts – yes, there were indeed some concerns of experts at the beginning, including the OECD had certain comments, but through this expert committee these views drew closer. We have come up with a compromise proposal, which also takes into account a number of good things by the opposition, as well as international experts. I am therefore not surprised that this adopted version of the law is supported by both the OECD and the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank, and I have probably let anyone else go. Maybe a sentence or two about the board of directors of this envisaged holding company. I will personally admire those heroes who will have the courage to even decide to run, whether it's for the board of directors or for a member of the board. The conditions provided for by the law are very strict. In addition to all these proposals, I think it will take a lot of courage if one of the candidates wants political support or goes through political sieves. Why? We all know that the Governing Council will elect the National Assembly, with an absolute majority. It will therefore be necessary to come together many times in order to achieve these 46 votes, which some have not been able to find even in the first step in their participation in the National Assembly, but this is their mistake, which will probably ever be avenged. So, the law has been passed despite some concerns by the President of the Republic, which legally do not endure, which obviously hurts some, so of course this has to be broken. Fortunately, with regard to the bad bank, the opposition’s inability to properly sign or correctly submit itself, even though some often wave with their rules of procedure and scream about some conspiracy theories in the National Assembly. According to my information, these conspiracy theories are happening more in some city world in Ljubljana, but this is not a matter of this debate. [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you, Mr. Jakič, always in your style. The opposition failed with the help of the State Council to break the law, tried to break the law twice, but it did not work, nor with the help of the unions. They've been stalling for six months, and now they're screaming about how nothing was taken into account. Thus, their last solution was to submit 30 such or other signatures to submit a referendum initiative just before midnight – such a horror film was prepared. Today, much has been said about these referendum initiatives, why we were three times against them. At least three fundamental differences are — what we are facing today and why we were opposed at the time. At the time, against those three marriages were mainly pensioners, students, unions. We just joined those calls. Why? Because the previous government with the presidential candidate didn't take five minutes to reconcile anything with us at all. I myself have been an expert member in the parliamentary group, and there has never been a single initiative for a meeting. It was a few minor or slightly larger substantive differences. Given that you are all full of speeches today, how can we reconcile all of this, how can we come to some compromises – you haven't taken five minutes in your previous term, and now we've been coordinating with you all summer and you still don't like it. I believe that none of those who have been on these expert committees has promised any of the opposition that these two laws will be adopted with maximum support, i.e. with the consent of all 90 Members. Of course, you would have your suggestions, even the majority of them in various supervisory councils and administrations, but then you would say to the government how guilty and responsible it is for the whole operation. I fully understand the fear of individuals with regard to this holding company because it is likely that there will be some kind of incision between the economy and politics – this policy, and this connection, which has been implemented so far, when people were politically selected, has been exploiting national interest more for their own interest, has been given credit by telephone calls because someone has been dedicated. I support the efforts of the government and all those who say that it is necessary to end this. I know it's your problem – it's the wrong government for you, but, as I said, you had your chance, you gambled on the first step. I have read the law – I must admit – twice, although I am not a financial expert, even though I see that we have a lot of financial experts in the National Assembly – and you look at Wikipedia and it squeezes you a little bit to the heart to talk about finances. I didn't intend to talk about it myself, but with my education, I can at least, with a lot of people, I'll say, step up with him. So, I really don't know why there is such a fear of this law, there is absolutely no fun, but I do know that there are some fears that some things will open up and that they are willing to break both the law and the State's independence. This, of course, explains how this government is responsible for everything in the world, whether before 1990, after 1990, and probably by 2020, this government will still be to blame. Perhaps just a few more answers to the individual debates that have taken place today; they are preparing for the rest of the reforms — not to worry. A lot of people are familiar with this. These reforms — we all agree — are necessary, but why you did not take them seriously three years ago when we encouraged you to take action. We offered you a full sheet of paper sheets, new laws, but of course not – you easily threw them into the basket and smiled at us. With regard to the sale of state property – if the situation as it is now in force continues, we will lose this state property. I am once expecting a call, perhaps Mr Berlusconi, and Abramovich is someone else to buy us all together, along with Parliament. Maybe just for closure. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič – because I know he will report to the replica – invited me. He talked about how we're the government's voting machine. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič, if you once have the opportunity – I believe that you will not have it – when you are a member of the coalition, you will see that some procedures can run even before some law comes into the National Assembly. I have to say – as an expert colleague and now as a Member – this work is very active so please keep your flat-rate words on voting machines for yourself or for another occasion. In short, I support today's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Replica, Gaspar Gaspar Mouse.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u98	I don't know where you get such a bullet in your coalition that we're afraid of something one way or another. Everything that's wrong, you have to understand, dear gentlemen, it's wrong to control yourself. But you run the state, our common assets. That's a key mistake. This Law on Slovenian State Holding – I would give him the right name, this is the law on imprecise privatisation of state property. That's it. Because simply, if you give us control, a two-member administration, a two-tier management, we agree, we sign and you will also wash yourself, people of God, in front of the Slovenian public. If anything goes wrong, you'll be able to say, "Yes, but you were there because you were equally deciding the fate of the common property." Those who fear the will of citizens and citizens, respected colleagues and colleagues, are not worthy of trust to lead and decide the fate of these citizens and citizens. What are you afraid of? What are you afraid of?Oh, my God! Yeah, you're obviously afraid of something. Why don't you give us control? That's the key. Mr Matthew Tonin, in his introduction to the opinion of the parliamentary group, made it clear that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u99	Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music, limit yourself to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u100	was clear that [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u101	You will explain what was misunderstood.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u102	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u103	Please. Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u104	Thank you very much and very much, colleagues and colleagues. If you could, be so correct and leave me to my word if I already got the word, fellow Member from Positive Slovenia. Besides, I believe you're capable of everything, and you've shown it, but at least this time try to hold on. Given that the predecessor, Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič, asked himself, or even predicted that if we had control of the law, we would only remind him that as long as they are in opposition, they are also headed by a committee to oversee public finances. The Public Finance Supervisory Committee will have or have every opportunity to look into all these financial matters and therefore there is no question that the opposition would not have control. First time. Secondly, it will be a project, a strategy to deal with this property. But the strategy will be adopted here, in the National Assembly. Of course, it will be adopted by most of the coalition, which is normal, but it will then be up to the Public Finance Supervisory Committee to monitor whether things will take place in accordance with the legislation adopted and transparent. So there's no problem and no question. That's one. Secondly, I recall the previous term when we were in the coalition or leading this country – that is, another term back, 2004-2008. At that time, for the first time, the then government coalition had such a composed supervisory council that it was always one of the oppositions in the supervisory council. In short, with information — where you can demand everything — you have a comprehensive view and you can transfer things to your base, where you can re-re-re-evaluate them and, clearly, ask questions to the government or discuss matters in the National Assembly. So, colleagues and colleagues. It is not that we fear anything, that we do not trust citizens and citizens. It's something else, it's just that there's really nothing left, because citizens and citizens have almost nothing or nothing. The vast majority of these things have been owned and stolen. Just remember the times of damage to social property, one commission of inquiry — when we talked about Elan when we talked about hydromontage, Metal. Anyone else remembers how many billions of dinars were then adopted by the rehabilitation program for the Maribor car factory to stay in jobs – and what happened? The problem is that this money has disappeared, has escaped through various Satexes, Guinnesses, and I don't know what everything is and, of course, through those who call them Botras from the background, and through these it comes slowly back. A large part of Slovenian property was owned. The great sadness of this country is that in the 1990s, after independence, unfortunately there was no lustration, then privatisation. This would prevent then billions of brands from going abroad and shopping again. Some of you can laugh in this room today, some of you either either directly or indirectly, have been very eager to see that moms, wives, workers, workers sell their certificates to us who are deceased – God grant him well – Drnovšek sent for, if I recall correctly, 400 thousand SITs. However, you bought them or some of them were probably for some of your accounts, or at least you participated in this set, from 5% to 10%. That's why some people have or have large assets. It is high time that we made a mea maxima culpa on our own, look at our accounts — because it will be time for someone else — if you paid taxes on it to the state. If we did, we wouldn't be on a dog like us today. Someone mentioned today what happened to the privatisation of the ironworks. According to my information, they have good wages, they have 13th salary, they have Christmas, they have regression — in short, they have everything. This means that if the Maribor TAM were to be sold not for that much and that much, but for 1 euro, it would be working there today, as it used to be, 8 to 10 thousand people, but it would not only consist of something, but also an engineering cadre, a developmental frame – then we would do well. I was convinced that these two laws, both the bad bank and the Slovenian State Holding Act, would no longer be discussed in this National Assembly, because the government had simply agreed with all the players in this society, from the Council of State forward and the Minister had apparently managed to convince the state councilors and understood the point of the union and everyone else. I was sure that the opposition would not do such a thing because it had previously announced that the referendums for the exploitation of political games were not right, were not appropriate and that we could not afford them at that time. Colleagues and colleagues, some of you have also discussed today where we have brought this country. This country has not yet brought this coalition anywhere; it has only begun to stop the logging against the grab at the slaughterhouse – we have begun to stop with certain moves. Unfortunately, in the position we are in, you have brought us all forward since 1992. The commitments that were in the previous mandate of around €8 billion are a disaster for the whole country and for the families that are coming after us. The disaster was also the non-use of European funds. Do you remember — from the bench in front of me from the third chair — for three years I asked you what it was like to use European funds? All the beginnings that you were in power at the time – today you are sitting in Positive Slovenia, although I think you can be told from Tuesday from midnight onwards that you are a Negative Slovenia – to colleagues from SD, you have ensured that things are now flowing, that the use is above average, etc. Today, the same one you are in the opposition, you are referring to this government in the budget debates, how you hope to write 1.4 billion euros to take advantage of it. I am also afraid that this will be almost impossible, but not because this government will not do so, but because of the fact that all the calls, all the procedures that we should carry out, are simply not – from 2007 to 2013, we are now coming in the last 2013. Remember, in the first year of 2008, we called for more than one billion euros when Dr. Ivan Žagar and others sat at the Ministry of Local Self-Government. What are we aware of in this country, what is this government coalition simply aware of? Colleagues and colleagues, we are aware that if we don't do this, the European Troika will arrive tomorrow. The European Troika will not look and ask where and how the European Troika will simply lay down conditions: to reduce pensions, to reduce social benefits, to reduce public servants, to reduce what for so many percent or so, the question of how much. Clearly — more than we need, we will have to reduce. It's not just a threesome, it's something else. If you want a billion euros, you will give – what? What else do we have? [[advertising from the hall]] I'll wait for them to calm down. What else do we have? Yeah, we got energy. And then they'll say, "You'll give me the Dravo power plants!" Maybe a billion, maybe three today, I don't know, but, colleagues and colleagues, our coalition contract says we're not selling energy. Our government told the unions, "Don't wave at something that's not true." She said, clearly and loudly, what and how. Not under the table, as it was used to doing for 17 years who you were, of course, Roman Jakič, you, when you were in the great LDS coalition when you were sitting here 34 – then you did the most damage in this country and even at that time it was the biggest theft in this country. Unfortunately, she did not have the strength and the means to make decisions, as she should, of course. This is what this government coalition is aware of in this country. If these two laws, such bad banks and holding companies, would not have happened, then they simply told us how things would go. In short, the worst for citizens and citizens, for those who voted for you. In his discussion, colleague Dragan Bosic said when someone asked him if his voice would jeopardize the stability of this country and his answer was that he did not – that he told him that he was not threatening the stability of this state of Yangsze, this government coalition. Dear colleague Bosić, I believe that this was not a 600-euro worker or someone who lost a job or a young student or a student who has no place to live in a student's home, but is living in a private apartment that one of his colleagues who is very rich today can buy off a few thousand euros, and today, of course, we charge these students dearly. However, it is possible that this question of yours – I believe what you said, Dragan – has answered one such as Jure Jankovic or, I don't know, Mr Marjan Pišljar. By the way, at today's 24ur.com, I read: "The cocksucker has been trying to recover his three million debt from Juret Jankovic since 2010". Moreover, lawyer Pechenko said: "Jankovic with his lifestyle plays creditors all the time." You, colleagues and colleagues in Positive Slovenia, have played citizens and citizens since you were elected and unable to form government coalitions. I hope, I believe, that they have once fallen on ice – the donkey goes on ice twice, and I believe the Slovenian people will not go on ice again, as they did this time when you and Mr Zoran Janković tricked them in the way you did – even with the help of your media, from the Diary and I don't know who else they knew about you. It is high time that you simply stop deceiving Slovenians and Slovenians to stop exploiting what you have. You have capital, some of your sons and daughters haven't done one minute's work, and they're driven by Mercedes, 150, 200 thousand euros worth, they're surrounded by houses for 350 thousand euros. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Roman, be quiet because no one asked you a question and if you had been corrected from Negative Slovenia, now you would be quiet when I speak. So, you have sons who have 350 thousand euros in arranged surroundings, which their fathers gave them, and they don't know where. You know, I'm also wondering if you've ever asked your party president a question. Where did Marjana Pissman get $3 million to lend to Juret Jankovic? From where? Was the tax paid out of these 3 million or not? I don't know, but I probably don't. Why am I talking? Because I know that Jure Jankovic also spent significantly more than he showed in the tax forecast, but he has not seen an epilogue in court until today. So, colleagues and colleagues, around the holding bill – you simply want what happened to all of Slovenia's assets under your leadership to happen, that is, it was stolen. With the holding law, which it is, this will not happen, because in the first place the National Assembly will adopt a strategy and the opposition, whatever it is, will be able to control all of this through public finances control.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u105	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u106	Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. In accordance with the practice established by Mr Virant, I would like you to protect the good name of Minister Šuštersič, who told us today that the agreement between the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Infrastructure and Space and the Slovenian Energy Workers' Union on the Slovenian State Holding Act is valid and signed. My friend Pukšič just lied to Suštršič and said that this document is not true. Now I don't know who's going to apologize to anyone – whether Shušteršič lied to us or whether Mr Pukšič lied to us. In any case, it is true that we protested yesterday that there are no signatures on this document, which was also given to the Committee on Finance. There is no signature of the Secretary-General, not of Mr Šuštersič, not of Mr Černač, not of Mr Sevčnik. Therefore, I am procedurally asking you to protect one of the names – I do not know who invented it here in front of the National Assembly. But given that signatures are disappearing today, it seems quite appropriate that panic reigned on this right side and that they speak on average and no one even listens to each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u108	That's right. On a procedural basis, I will not allow Mr Pukšič's replica, we will continue the debate. Mr Jakič, I am confident that the Minister himself will be able to explain and protect his name. I think he has done this very successfully so far, and he has been very successful in explaining what was necessary. I see another hand, Mr. Bosic, just a moment ago. What do you want, Mr. Bosic?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u109	Mr. Bosic wants a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u110	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u111	I was misunderstood by Mr. Pukšič. I would just say that I was misunderstood and if I were to explain now, it would actually take too much time to understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u112	Mr. Puksic, would you like to proceed procedurally? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I would like to make a procedural proposal to protect Roman Jakič, who spoke the truth – so that it will not be so public. In fact, this agreement states that the target shares of between 75 % and plus one share, 50 % plus one share, will remain the only Geoplin will be sold or will remain at Geoplin 25 plus one share. So it's not true that this government coalition will sell out energy. She won't be here! It will not sell it and will not steal it, just as the Slovenian assets have been stolen since 1992. Roman, it's your ability, so talk [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u114	Mr. Pukšič, we understand [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u115	speak and explain, but you are not correct and do not speak honestly to the public, as you have never said before.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. Mr Jakič, too, I believe he will be able to protect his name. We continue the debate. Mr. Aloysius Potočnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u117	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. We are talking about the things and things that we have heard many times in this congregation, and we have seen, debated, repeated in many sentences with the same reasoning, with the same doubts and, of course, with the same concerns as we are expressing today. The referendum is, of course, an eminent political means and action. It is among the key institutions of the Constitution, which is a social contract under which we must act and treat citizens and citizens. Upon request of Members and Members of the Coalition. Of course, rhetoric in explanation and justification is unusually sharp; in the name of the Government, it was repeated today by the Minister of Finance. It seems to me that in general it has exceeded reality and is rapidly disproportionate to the political situation in the country. Above all, I am unable, if I say metaphorically, to include Moody's on the negative observation list – it is too simple and Wallstreet, or yesterday on the Committee on Finance with some Members and Members would not, with arguments, encourage political agreement on the issue that we are talking about today, on the political solution, on the dialogue. And then, of course, I didn't know what I had learned an hour ago. Political consensus, colleagues and colleagues, as demonstrated by experience in the democratic world, is essential. Slovenia will have to accept this fact sooner or later. Yesterday I read, "To rule yourself is the greatest power." And the hardest, I add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u119	Ladies and gentlemen! We're not talking about real things today. Let's say we're talking about the president of the country and we're trying to degrade him. And it's not about Dr. Daniel Turk, it's about the president of the country -- it's the most sacred thing we have and we should keep it. We should also keep this Parliament, MEPs and Members in order to give people hope that we can agree on more. However, we, ladies and gentlemen, do not delegate our responsibilities to the people. People don't make decisions for us, we'll ask people. With the referendum, we will ask people whether they agree to sell Slovenian property, whether they agree to be decided by the Slovenian government, whatever it is. We will ask people this and we will also have the opportunity to explain to people what is happening in Slovenia at the moment. No euphoria, no bad words, no bad thoughts. But something is clear, ladies and gentlemen. We will in any case – whatever we speak as the opposition, whatever you say as a position and whatever the government says – have to agree in some way. How can we cut off what we talked about today or perhaps what we should be talking about today — we hardly talked about it today. To this day, no contracts have been adopted for block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica. Today, three months after the National Assembly accepted the guarantee, the Slovenian government did nothing. However, in public it is said that it is conditional on whether or not there will be a referendum or whether there will be a guarantee or not. Is it normal, ladies and gentlemen, to talk about this? It would be normal for every Slovenian government to work for the good of this country. Today we have learned that Members and Members have already said that we are selling Slovenian property. No one has decided that we will sell energy, but we are selling it without the Slovenians deciding and without the profession to say what they think – about the supply of Slovenian energy, the stability of Slovenian energy. It's not such a simple question. I'm sorry, the government negotiated with the unions — in whose name? In whose name did she negotiate? So the union didn't ask a referendum question. Let me remind you, this is where we very much opposed the reception of the holding company, this state society, such as it is, we were very opposed – there was no hearing. The State Council voted veto — there was no listening. Then the union took initiatives for signatures – there was no listening. Were these not signals that made it very clear that something was wrong, that we had to do something? Again, I ask you, the position and the government as well as us, the opposition, what we will do to get out of this situation when we talk about this Slovenian holding company or the share company, about an economic company that will manage the only Slovenian property it still has and sells. You wrote in the budget that we will then put 7% of everything sold into the pension reservation, which is, of course, right, but if there is 120 million in the budget for each year – calculate how much Slovenian property we must then sell in 2013 in order to fill it up. I heard today, ladies and gentlemen, that we're selling Petrol. One of the people with the information said we're selling Petrol. Does anyone know anything about this? Has anyone said anything about it? Does that hurt? Do we know anything about this? It is not possible to do so and therefore it is a matter of profits. I fully agree that these state-owned companies should make a profit. Where is this profit in 2013 in the state budget? Can anyone explain to me where this profit is in the 2013 state budget? He's not here. So don't say that holding saves everything that of course you couldn't save. So once again, the campaign and this referendum are an opportunity for all of us to reconsider whether there is anything else we can do. If there's anything we can do, then let's do it, ladies and gentlemen. I have signed a completely peaceful conscience, and I am also aware of the responsibility, even though I know that they feel the opposite of thinking that there will be no support for this or that there will be no agreement for TES 6 that all of this will not be done. Well, if it isn't, then we're not good at it. Not because we called for a referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Several speakers called for a discussion today about the content of this law. After all, I intend to talk or talk about the content of this law. In order to be able to talk about the content of this law, we also need to know what the situation with the management of state property is today. For a short period of time, the state property is managed by different companies, from limited liability companies to shareholders, managed by Kad, DSU, PDP, d. o.o., etc., and of course by AUKN. This management is fragmented and is therefore ineffective and therefore comes to various proposals in the same congregations. This also shows that profitability is as my colleagues have already said. Mr. Starman spoke about this in broad terms, including the profitability of this property. After all, it's mostly monopolistic societies. Such is the existing situation, ladies and gentlemen, and this situation shows us that we could not have had more inefficient governance and governance organisation in this country. What do we want to accomplish by this law? To centralise the management and, of course, also control of the opposition referred to by Gaspar Gaspar Mišič, only I cannot imagine that they would simply write in the law to be the supervisor of Gaspar Gaspar Mišič. That probably wouldn't work. But the opposition actually has the opportunity to control this share company, which is not only established under private law, but under economic law. On the basis of this law, the Law on Economic Companies, many societies are set up today, including state companies, and are operating and supervised. After all, we are talking about electricity, about energy – all of these companies are established under the Company Act, which gives, if you want, a single system, a two-tier system and also allows control. This, of course, does not mean that there is no such control. It is not true that there is no such control and it is not true that it cannot be ensured. After all, all the documents on what is to be sold, what is not to be sold, what are the intended shares, in this National Assembly. This National Assembly will, after all, also determine and decide on a governance strategy for state property. All these words spoken today are not entirely true or at least not evident. This law was adopted because the management of state property is ineffective. As a result, this new holding dividend will also be paid into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, not just for a reason and not just for that. After all – the owner. If anyone knows what the owner means, then he must know that the owner – in this case this country – will keep an eye on it and, of course, also require profits or dividends for this to be paid in the National Assembly. Whoever manages this property must be responsible, and this law in fact provides that this property management will also be responsible. Today, too, the consequences have been discussed. Comrade Potočnik said that the reality is not such that the reality can be different and that it may be a little too gray or that the rhetoric here has exceeded the reality. We are talking about being concerned about the country, especially because the financial situation for this country is bad, especially because whatever we think about credit rating agencies already, we can say that they are all private credit rating agencies and that they are run by American companies, but, whatever the case, these credit rating agencies today set the price of money. And the price of money is high for Slovenia today. Money is expensive, and that's why we're uncompetitive. Since banks need to compete because the economy needs to be in debt at a rate of 7 %, an interest rate of 8 %, it is difficult to compete with those in debt at a rate of 2 %. If they are indebted at 2% or 3% interest rates, they are, of course, more competitive. By not adopting this law or by failing to implement it, we will prolong a situation that is bad and that cannot be worse in terms of asset management. Here it is important that it can certainly come to pass that, as Minister Šuštersič, the state or the bank or the economy will no longer be able to obtain money and will no longer be able to settle their obligations. This, of course, means that she will have to accept another program. It's not a scarecrow, and I don't want to scare you. It's an easy reality. This referendum initiative postpones the implementation of this law and to start doing business differently and more responsibly. Of course, this means bad for the country, in my personal opinion, this is an un-stately act. Not only does it mean bad for the country, but it also means bad for citizens and citizens, also for social benefits, even for pensions, because as little money as we now get from asset management, we have not yet received. I'd certainly like to hold him more. I therefore justify this as a non-state act and therefore oppose the referendum in this case. However, I propose that the signatories make a request for a referendum and withdraw the signatures for the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Ms Renata Brunskole and Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will be next, instead of Mitje Meršol.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u123	Thank you very much. How nice to meet you! My will under both requirements for the referendum is clearly expressed and can be verified. It is right that the management of state property is in one place and ownership where it is today. The current Law on Slovenian State Holding does not guarantee transparency. Holding will be an economic company, which means that it will not be committed to public information. He will no longer be responsible to the National Assembly and will also withdraw from parliamentary supervision. Yesterday's long meeting of the Finance Committee was varied, including due to three interruptions, breaks, and also because after more than 8 hours by the Government, we received a draft proposal for an agreement between the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and the Slovenian Energy Workers' Union on the Slovenian State Holding Act. The content of the agreement was agreed by the Government at the 38th letter meeting, which was also published on the Government's website. This agreement states, under point 1, that the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space shall also commit themselves to the targeted shares of energy companies in the way envisaged for strategic investments. Some colleagues have already talked about this; some apparently did not understand it. Since they were not present at the meeting of the Finance Committee, I do not resent this either, but among other things it is stated that the target share of Holding of Slovenian Power Plants, i.e. HSE, will be a new target share of 50% plus one share. It's a number of questions that arise. Drava power plants are now 100 % share, Sokska power plant 100 % share, hydro power plants at the lower Savi 51 % share. However, for Dravske and Sokske power plants — although one of the colleagues earlier said no — the share of the sale will obviously fall. GEN energy, d. o.o., target share 50% plus one share. If we take a closer look at the ownership of this, this means – perhaps I misinterpret – that we could be the first in the world in Slovenia to sell shares at the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. I hope that's not the case. Why? Under GEN energy, d.o.o. also belongs to the nuclear power plant and here is the share of 50% plus one share. If this is not true – I hope not – it is very possible for the Sava power plants of Ljubljana, where the share is 100%, and also for the Brestanica power plant, where the share is 100%. Here's an agreement with the unions a target share of 50% plus one share. If I don't read correctly, if I don't understand correctly, I'd ask for an answer from the Ministry. I also wonder if the ministers within the government may have overstepped their powers? It is not right, however, to frighten people that our request for a referendum is the reason for the possibility of a new reduction in credit ratings. That's not true! This is not true – this is confirmed today at the STA: "Standard & Poor's predicts the possibility of a new reduction in Slovenia's credit rating". What, though, is indicated as the essence? Standard & Poor's credit rating agency announced that the possibility of a referendum on the holding law strengthens uncertainty about government capabilities. The essence is the design and implementation of structural reforms. I would now like to repeat this point because some colleagues have misinterpreted the substance of this credit rating agency as defined by: fiscal consolidation, pension and health reforms, labour market reform and the rationalisation of the state administration, which are significantly more important for Slovenian macroeconomic stability than the State Holding Act. This is the expert opinion of the Standard & Poor's credit rating agency – it therefore points to government options and the Government's role in designing and implementing structural reforms. This is further confirmation that in Positive Slovenia we are thinking positively and that we have made the right decision when we applied the extreme measure and signed our own request for a referendum. For the benefit of Slovenia, state property and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. As you know, Koroška was cut off from the world these days because of this grip that was in Koroška, Styria, even in Austrian Koroška. How many times have I remembered the debates in this Chamber when we discussed the need for these peripheral regions to be linked to a fast road too? How many times have we discussed the fact that it is very pointless to abolish information centres in these regions and now that Koroška is so cut off from the world, it is even more heartwarming for me to say that the opposition often gives good suggestions and good suggestions, but – as often as we make good suggestions – so many times the coalition is able to overrun these proposals. Why did I decide to come to the National Assembly today despite all the roadblocks and repairs? I decided simply to say here very clearly once again that even if my signatures were scanned, they express my firm will and my conviction that we must do something because the opposition has been transported again. At the time the working group was formed, when there was a vote in the State Council, and when the vote in the National Assembly was around holding and setting up a bad bank, it was taken, and when there was no other option and no other choice, we use these highest forms of democratic decision-making, that is to say, an attempt to sign the referendum. You know that it is not our strong desire to be referendums, but when all the tools, the legal tools, are gone, then we use this — because it is no different. Today, when Comrade Bojan Starman spoke about how many things could be settled and discussed — there were opportunities — there was a lot of time. We sat together in the working groups, but in vain, because our proposals were not taken into account in almost no segment, and so we came to this point today, and so we will probably also come to the future if opposition proposals are to be thrown into the trash or thrown into the trash by some heavy machine and put to nothing. Personally, I am also convinced that there could be another form, not exactly a referendum. However, here we are, in this state as we are, and our referendum initiative is clear and clear, with our signatures, which we also stand for. There was a lot of talk today about content. In fact, much more about other things than the content of the creation of the Slovenian State Holding Act, which we have already told almost everything about. From perceptions of intransparency, to unclear management, guidance. After all, our country's poor practice has shown that we have not yet shown good governance with state property. We fear that this will continue, including through the drafting and adoption of this law – that this administration will again be irresponsible, untransparent, blurry. Thus, in a way, from year to year, we will see how this property of ours lands until the moment when, just as my colleague Pukšič speaks — that the troika from Brussels will come and command us or suggest our conduct and life here. This is not what anyone wants, and also in this fear-stricken opposition, from this point of view: it is necessary to create and adopt such legislation as will guarantee and guarantee for the future, for our country and for the development of our country. Regarding what my colleague Shircelj said – I agree with him about many things, but I cannot agree that this law on the formation of a state holding company is so sound. As this credit rating house Standard & Poor's, which makes its statements about the requirements of the referendum, also says that any reduction in credit ratings will not be at the expense of this referendum application. On the other hand, it also speaks of the fact that even if the adoption of this law is not immediately followed, it will not leave any lasting and major consequences. It also mentions that there are so many mechanisms already in place that, if we want to and if we have the will to manage property wisely, we can also manage this mechanism, which is now in place. Of course, there are probably better forms and better ways to manage state property, so it is right for all of us to work together to create better legislation, adopt it and deliver results. Damjana’s colleague is not the only one — at such critical times, many would like to see the opposition lifted immediately. The opposition is carrying out its basic mission, and this fundamental mission is to do what we do – to warn us that we are making constructive proposals to monitor things. We are not solely responsible to this National Assembly; we are also accountable to those who have elected us. Just as some of us here fight and black out for our actions because we hope to make a request for a referendum — so on the ground they also say that you are watching alongside the government with the entire coalition of trees down the coast, pressure on the gas. Where to? To that end, when the collapse and collapse of this country occurs – pull by hand, here and there, because you do not get on to the government and coalition too often. We're in a situation like this. We are also happy to listen to our electorates and voters who talk about the fact that we need to pull more often and more heavily on the hand brake so that it does not really get some unpredictable form and unforeseen state. Therefore, you cannot tell us this — we are carrying out our mission as needed for the opposition, and we will continue to do so. But there is no solution here either – there is no solution to the fact that people here in the National Assembly share in you and us, in the left and right, and we argue about it. The solution is what Comrade Starman was talking about — we should sit together and find solutions acceptable to the left and right sides so that we can then confirm them and have some confidence in further development. All other things – that today we are predicting war, that it is some secret night action – please, this is our work and this is transparent, legitimate and legal and we will continue to do so. So, I'm about to really consolidate once in a way that means that we sit down and find a common language for such important things. We agree – Slovenian state holding is an important thing. It is also important to create banks and so on, and there will be many more. The only way and solution is to find compromise and consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u126	Replica, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Again, ladies and gentlemen. I am pleased that Mr Zanoškar at least partly agrees with me, but once again I would like to say that I was probably misunderstood in my statement when I said that credit rating agencies should be taken very, very seriously. Credit ratings are falling, money is being auctioned, debt to the economy, countries and banks is being hampered, interest rates are higher. That's why we're uncompetitive, which is why there's less money for social, pensions, roads, for any other business. That's why I'm calling again. This time the call for a referendum is, in my opinion, an unconstitutional act. Do a national action, withdraw your signatures and everyone will be much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u129	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that before me my colleague, Andrej Šircelj, has debated, because there are many things that I will not have to point out in my debate. However, all those who discussed my colleagues somehow do not want to hear or want to convince the Slovenian public that the coalition is unable to negotiate and talk with the opposition. If you keep saying that for a long time, it becomes a lie. Today, it has been said several times that during the summer, the working group, which has adopted many useful and professional proposals by both the opposition, the social partners and the general public, has taken place, but today Positive or "negative" Slovenia does not want to hear. That is why today's discussions by the opposition's fellow Members have convinced me that they are mainly pursuing three objectives. They are fighting to manage state property responsibly, economically, transparently, but not in the way it has been so far, we all know very clearly – by stealing and by acquiring state property. They are also afraid that there will be no disclosure of credit cards that might help us see how someone has acquired state property or received credit for beautiful eyes. The main goal is the one that may end up in this hall, but this is the collapse of the coalition and the government of Janez Janša. I would not have included this in my debate if I had not been reminded by a citizen or by a citizen today of a meeting held at the Maximarket in a well-known pastry shop, when the President of SWIZ, Mr Strukelj, met with two other gentlemen and it was clear from the conversation that the demonstration should be carried out on November 17th and that it was not important money, it was important that the government of Janez Janša be overthrown. It's not about the Higher Education Act, the Holding Act or anything. This is what citizens and citizens need to hear. When you're somehow hiding behind everything you've been saying today when you're talking about unfair debates and so on, I think you can imagine yourself over your own debates, even yesterday on the Committee on Finance, when you called for a monster of fascism and similar things to start crawling around these valleys, which you always attribute to the Slovenian Democratic Party. It's a legitimate right to file a request for a referendum, but it's an unconstitutional act. Your electorates and voters also call on you online to withdraw this initiative, but I believe that, even if there is a referendum, citizens and citizens will decide that the law is necessary and that it is not 100% and that we can expect any change in the future, but that it is essential to protect Slovenia and the interests of the country. Of course, these readings, which I now speak in my debate, you do not want to listen and you will protest loudly, as always. With your uncultured behavior, you want to put us away in a coalition, which we devote our work to with all due care to the country, to citizens and citizens, and to our electorates and voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u131	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A well-respected choir. I hope that the Government will come to this National Assembly as soon as possible with a set of measures to remedy the damage caused by the catastrophic floods that have hit Slovenia in these days. Now, on the agenda. "We see no point in having the right to the announced referendum decided by the Constitutional Court. We believe that the possible rejection of the law at the referendum would not result in an unconstitutional situation in the country. We are even convinced that the law must be rejected because in many respects it is unconstitutional and unfair." Thus, on 10 January 2011, the Slovenian Democratic Party's authorised speaker began his performance when, on the agenda, Pahor's Government's initiative was to have a constitutional opinion so that the fall of pension reform could have an anti-constitutional impact on the referendum. Today's situation is reversed, today we have the initiative of the Janša government to provide a constitutional opinion so that the fall of the Slovenian State Holding Act could have counter-constitutional consequences at the referendum. The same political receptions, only the main roles have changed. The previous opposition has staked everything on the referendums, because it was a very practical mechanism to get rid of the Pahor government. Not surprisingly, these political tools have also been used successfully in the 2000-2004 mandate, especially during the period of the Robbery Government. We can only mention the referendum on deleted. We know how the Constitutional Court ruled on pension reform. The referendum was not banned. We also know how the biggest opposition party behaved during the campaign before the megaferendum Sunday of June 2011. At that time, the leader of the opposition called for people to vote four to three times against the laws and once against the Pahor government. All this destruction eventually led to the first early elections in Slovenia alone. However, the ratings of Slovenia and Slovenian banks have also begun to decline dramatically. Finally, we had to commit ourselves to interest rates higher than interest rates, which today owe some African countries, which are among the least developed countries in the world. At this point, I would expect the former leader of the opposition to admit that he had been wrong in bringing down all the reform measures of the previous government. Today we are in opposition to similar dilemmas. I did not sign the Slovenian State Holding referendum myself, but if it comes to it, I will vote against the bad law that sells state property. But before that, I would call on both the coalition and the opposition to stand together and, on the basis of all constitutional, legal and business options, together to prepare a new law, or new two laws, which are the subject of the dispute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Grill has the floor, Mr Ivan Hršak is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u133	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that especially in Positive Slovenia there is a great deal of innovation in the acquisition of signatures, reproduction of signatures and also criticism at the expense of this law, which we are now deciding on for constitutional review. All these statements, the untruths do not hold, and there is no time to explain it here again in those points where you have divulged the truths to the public. But if we start with the need for a constitutional assessment – let us continue to read the Constitution and the basic constitutional charter of Slovenia, which states in the introduction that Slovenia is an independent and free country. But what does that guarantee? Not only is this recorded in our Constitution or in our constitutional charter, but it requires economic independence in the first place. How far are we from maintaining this economic independence? I think there is very little time left, and we really need to step together and find a way to get the country out of a difficult situation, to give confidence to the international financial markets, so that we can get fresh capital at favourable interest rates so that we can be competitive and, above all, that we can get money. Let us remember the summer months when it was only for 50 million Euros of interest to buy our bonds. Here is the necessity to enforce this law. In the opposition, you are trying to criticise that this law is untransparent, that somehow the National Assembly will go around, that we will not know anything about it, that we will not decide where the guidelines are, where the strategy is, etc. Let the law be enforced. It is very nice and accurate in the law that according to the guidelines and also the strategy, there will be a need for the National Assembly. But -- who's going to do it? Do not report to the government that she is the one who has to prepare this – it will be holding alone after the law has been enforced. Here's what needs to be taken into account. On the part of the opposition, quite a few things have been said that none of the opposition will be able to control or co-decision in this holding – nor will this be true. The 4 members of the Supervisory Board will be appointed at the initiative of the parliamentary groups. There'll be an opportunity for the opposition to get it. However, it will certainly be possible to propose it to the Commission for the supervision of public finances, which has a majority. This means that the opposition in the control world will have at least one. What can you deny? You'll have information all the time, you'll be able to decide, and you'll be critical of it all the time. You say those who oppose this referendum are afraid of the people. Not at all. I am sure that if there is a referendum – I hope that one of you will change his mind, that there will be responsibility and, finally, the wisdom to withdraw the signature and not to reach this referendum – that people will decide responsibly, because without this law, without the rehabilitation of our state-owned companies, the acquisition of fresh capital, it is a big question whether we will still be able to finance pensions, our education, our health care and, lastly, a number of services. That's why there's not much of a dilemma here whether to make such a change or not. I am sorry that the opposition is targeting the whole country only in order to adapt to the measures that this government and this coalition are well-prepared and are also taking. There was enough time to cooperate, and there was enough time to make comments that were largely taken into account — not all, but to a large extent. Now's not the time. It would certainly be right for this law to be enforced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor. Please prepare yourself. Stanko Stepišnik or – I apologize – before him is still a mag. Majda Potter and a few others.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u135	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! That our country is in an extremely difficult position for the first time since independence, we are probably all united. That it is precisely because of this extremely difficult situation that we must do something immediately, we are united in the coalition, but unfortunately we cannot say this about the opposition, unfortunately. It is more than sad that, even at these most difficult times, our country's position and opposition are not united in not supporting the steps that have been taken to get out of the crisis. Moreover, the opposition, Positive Slovenia plus the other three Members, submitted a request for a referendum on the Slovenian State Holding just 15 minutes before the deadline. This is unacceptable in my opinion. It is unacceptable because the State simply cannot afford to delay the necessary necessary measures to stabilise public finances, including the Slovenian State Holding Act. It seems very important to me that in the last few days, the citizens of various polls have spoken largely against the referendum because they are aware that the referendum is completely flawed and inappropriate at this time. So far, it has been clear to me that the opposition can say many things in the National Assembly, but that it can say everything that comes to mind, and I have never known that. What do I mean by that? I refer mainly to the statements made by the opposition from the SD, which speak of the sale of state property and the theft of the century. Such rhetoric is unacceptable because it does not support the arguments of the proposed Slovenian State Holding Act. Unfortunately, this is said by those who have been leading the Slovenian country for the last three years, but have not settled matters satisfactorily – even more – with excessive and completely uncontrolled indebtedness the country has made a significant contribution to today's financial situation. [[advertising from the hall]] You didn't get us involved in the leadership of the country at the time, and you don't get us mixed up now. Instead of working constructively at least now towards the recovery of public finances, they are unfortunately acting in the opposite direction. The opposition – now I am thinking both of Positive Slovenia and of the SD – is doing everything in order to prevent, block as soon as possible the necessary rehabilitation and stabilisation of public finances as the coalition envisioned. I absolutely agree with this way of stabilising public finances, because I believe that this is the right way to solve the problem. On the basis of all the above, I consider the request for a referendum on the Slovenian State Holding to be unacceptable. At the same time, I firmly believe that the Constitutional Court will wisely conclude that the failure to implement the proposed new way of managing state property would cause immediate irreparable damage to our public finances and, consequently, a further deterioration in the reputation and trust of foreign countries in our country, which could, of course, lead to the need for Slovenia to ask for international assistance, which would be a disaster for our citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u136	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potrat, get ready, Mr. Ivan Pišek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u137	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I am not taking the right to decide whether or not to sign under a referendum request. This is a matter of free judgment, which is why it is unacceptable for some to explain the state- and state-of-the-art. Then something should also be said on the basis of a decision on the request of the National Assembly to the Constitutional Court to decide whether or not to allow a referendum. And I must say that this requirement is read so that it would never be signed under it because it shows inconsistencies – I would not sign it, Mr Tanko! - in a whole series of things. I know it's very nice to read. "In constitutional democracy, man is an entity and not an object of government action, and his self-realisation as a human is the fundamental purpose of democratic regulation. So you were excited that you wrote this not only on page 6 but you did it again on page 7. What particularly bothers me in this request is that you have often attacked the opposition when it has identified, even with regard to the unconstitutionality of the Slovenian State Holding Act, that the Constitutional Court decides on non-constitutionality. If you read your request – half of the text is based on the claim that the applicable Capital Investment Management Act is unconstitutional. Yeah, how now? Can the coalition claim that something is unconstitutional and the opposition is not, just because it is the opposition? Let's have some normal and uniform criteria. The opinion was one of the parliamentary groups: "Slovenia is losing credibility. He's still losing credibility on the basis of the opposition. It is important to be aware that Slovenia has not adopted one single reform since 2009, despite great promises, and it would be time to be aware of that." Yes, when did the first demands for reforms come, to which Europe has also warned us? In 2005 – remember the magic threesome, Masten, Jože P. Damian, and I lost one and someone else to add. What happened to those reform requirements? Ivan Janša's government stopped before the reforms this week because there was no support for them among the people. However, when these reforms were prepared by the Government of Borut Pahor, the public's unwillingness to reform has skillfully used them for a four-time referendum. I could now tell you when the government of Borut Pahor was in the same position as now the government of Ivan Janša – when it adopted the pension reform on 14 December 2010, on 26 October 2010 the Small Work Act, on 29 March 2011 the Law on Prevention of Work and Black Employment. Where were you then? Where was your state-of-the-art? Please don't lecture me about countrymanship, and there is no mercy, a respected coalition [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Pišek has the floor to prepare Mr Janez Vasle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u139	Thank you, Vice President, but I need a little more, so I'm quitting now. 50 seconds only. I'll do it later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u140	Okay. Thank you very much. Mr Janez Vasle, prepare Mrs Eva Irgle – or she probably won't – and then Mrs Tamara Vont.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u141	Good evening, everyone. After a hard day, I say hello. I was on the eve of the Reformation at the State Celebration and I noticed that there were quite a number of seats empty there and that there were very few of you from the Positive Slovenia. When I came home from the party, I saw on TV why you were gone. But there was no doubt about it at the time, and I wouldn't judge it either. You keep telling us something about creating emergency situations, but it seems to me that this is what is now creating some extraordinary situation. So a lot of times when I'm listening to these discussions, it comes to the thought of that saying, "Dude, hold the thief!".. Now for a few more questions. Why is there so much fear of holding? The recapitalisation of state assets did not produce any results. Tax money had to be invested again and again in banks, Adrios and so on. Why not try something else now, put in place one-stop-shop and so on – not to repeat these debates that have taken place all day long – and why it is necessary to deny and reject the beginning of renewed confidence in our abilities, as we hear it comes to improve our ratings and so on. I have a feeling – and in my debate, my feeling has also been confirmed by Mr Starman – that with these resistances in all forms there is one great mix-up and flow of great wealth that could be revealed by the creation of the holding company. My generation remembers when they assassinated or kidnapped Ald Mor in Italy, their prime minister, and also killed him, these Brigates Rosse – I think they were Brigates Rosse – when they were all looking for Ald Mora, and at the same time they begged God not to find him, and so it seems to me now that we're hunting around this. It seems that this summer's talks have reached some agreement on holding, and now, on the nose, a referendum and again a decision of such importance, a complicated decision on the shoulders of citizens. I think it would be time — I have already said this in one debate — to just somehow unify ourselves to stop eating, I have already said that. Now, as a doctor, I'm going to say one such case that I think of Slovenia as a patient in an asthma attack. Asthma is described somehow by someone holding your neck to strangle you, but at the same time, she doesn't squeeze you to the end to strangle you. I think it'd be good for us to step down a little bit. A colleague earlier mentioned the sale of Petrol – that no one knows who is selling it. But maybe when there's a holding company, they'll know who's selling Petrol or whatever it is that's gonna sell. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u142	Thank you very much. There have been some changes in the entries and cancellations of Members and Members, and it is now Mr Jožef Kavticnik's turn to prepare the mag. Stanko Stepišnik and then we move on to the list.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u143	Thank you very much. This special session was called for by a coalition and not by us — so much so as not to cause any confusion. In all these months and after many hours of discussions, I find that there is really little chance that any agreement can be reached between the opposition and the ruling coalition. There are so many differences between us, and above all there are completely different views that this is almost impossible to bridge. I've heard that today, and I've been hearing that all along, where are these key differences between the opposition and the coalition? In Positive Slovenia we guarantee the principle of democracy. You in the coalition, especially in the SDS, and the principle of hard hands and dictatorship. We're in favor of the social state, and you're in favor of the elite. We advocate public education and health care, which should be accessible to all under equal conditions, and you to enter capital into this sensitive area and create privileges. For some better educational programs, for others worse, for some better health care, for others worse – all depends on how much someone has under his thumb. We stand for human rights, to help people who need it – let's say the law on personal assistance, which you so far have conquered with your left hand – and put a man before capital, and you stand for tighter control over everything and over everyone, because you don't trust anyone, divide people into yours and ours and put capital in front of people. We've heard that before today. When we talk about the establishment of the Slovenian State Holding – we did not object, we participated in the Working Group and also made appropriate proposals. We broke up in surveillance. Only here would you need a little more determination or common sense, and the matter would be handled. Of course, reason is not possible here with you because it's a lot of money, a big deal, and for you, the money of the world is the ruler. That's why you don't want to get out of management and out of control. You're saying there's going to be some oversight in the National Assembly that the National Assembly will adopt a strategy. Is this a strategy to be adopted by the National Assembly? Sales or trade union agreement on so much and so much of the share of electricity plants, etc. That is why I will not personally participate in this act – even more so, with full consciousness, and not with a shaking hand, I have signed a request for a referendum and I am aware of the responsibility, full of responsibility to my children, grandchildren and to all citizens and citizens. In the first place, I am still putting a man before capital and therefore I am not withdrawing this signature, but you have every legitimate right to submit this application to the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u144	Thank you. The word has magic. Stanko Stepichnik. Then it's Mrs. Tamara Vont's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u145	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Slovenian State Holding Act has been drafted by the government and the government has full responsibility for whether this law will be passed, will it go a normal way, or will it have obstacles. When you propose a marriage you have to deal with the social partners, you have to deal with the opposition, you have to listen to it, and you have to bring some ideas into the marriage. Everything that happens now — that the law does not go smoothly — you take the blame for yourself, you are responsible for it. If the law had been well prepared, the opposition would have accepted it, and if it had been well agreed with the social partners, there would have been no such cow trades that the Ministry of Finance had agreed with one union on the target share of energy sales in Slovenia. Indeed, this is not the task of the union to discuss ownership with the government or the state. The law has a completely different mission. This brings more unrest among the other unions. It would be better to turn the union away from – that it does not have the right to be owned by companies but is concerned about the sharing of profits, the care to meet the basic conditions under collective agreements, and that it also cares and helps businesses when it comes to maintaining jobs. At least the union's going to own it! It never goes into private property, and it shouldn't go state-owned. This Slovenian state holding company is now an economic company – and what bothers citizens, citizens and us in the opposition? There's two things bothering us. First, that this state property, which is worth 10, 13 or 50 billion — indirectly, directly, if well managed in 20 years — is transferred from the control of the State, the National Assembly, to a private society, to a d. d. society. Then the State or the National Assembly no longer has control over this property. This property belongs to all citizens and citizens, not to the current government. The other thing that is disturbing is that in this law, the congregation is a government, that the governing council has 9 members, and most of them are appointed by the current government. You can't control yourself, you can't control yourself. We should let our surveillance down here in order to make it different. You're probably not in the business of controlling, you're in the business of managing the property to make it as profitable as possible. The sale of state property is also supposed to go into the purchase budget – now it's only going to dividends. The danger is that this cash flow, which is in the holding company, flows between different companies – there can be blurred things created there and again we will have problems in the future. The current regulation of state property management is made through the AUKN and what we have heard pleases us at the moment, as some of the contributions have been made in the last year, and in fact nothing is wrong. I also don't know what the Constitutional Court should be judging – or just saying that the new SDH organisation is better than the AUKN. It also disturbs us that there are no numerical results and analyses of better management in SDH, better transparency, profitability, or that there are any greater benefits for citizens and citizens. When you prepare such a project, and if you want it to succeed — if you do a smaller project — you have to have a premeditated plan to convince everyone else to accept it. The question is, what will the Slovenians get from this SDH? Is that why we're going to have a smaller assignment? What's the smaller debt when we sell state property? Will we have more jobs, or will we even have economic growth if we succeed in selling half of the state's assets? Currently, we have 3 packages, 300 measures, 16% of money from Europe in the state budget, a billion 400 million, and 2% of negative economic growth in the next year. Yes, for God's sake, what we're going to have to do to have plus 2% economic growth, which is probably our goal. Will the balance of public finances with SDH be better than today? Is the financial deficit going to be lower? How much of this state property will go towards economic growth, how much for spending, how much for consumption, how much for development and research, investment, education or employment? These are data that would animate all citizens and citizens if they had some specific figures. In fact, positive Slovenia said that it does not tend to referendum. The referendums are a last resort, one referendum costs about €3 million, and this is one primary school. With each referendum, we blow up one primary school. Therefore, Positive Slovenia has already proposed that we all take one step back and agree somehow, because this extreme measure, the referendum, is not our will. I think this is the moment when we must not conquer stubbornness, arrogance, but political maturity and wisdom. This will be the victory of all! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mrs Tamara Vont has the floor, Mr Jani Möderndorfer is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Let me begin by saying that, if what happened to the signatures that mysteriously disappeared and apparently reappeared, then I hope that we are aware that we are on the threshold of one of the worst violations and scandals in this country, that the last pillar has fallen and that nothing is truly sacred. Great appetites in energy were expected because there was power, sovereignty, and ultimately the future. This is best understood by those less developed countries that, because they do not have access to energy, are also developing much slower. We're also helping them a lot, and in fact, it's kneeling here. I was awkwardly surprised to see this deal the government made with the union regarding the sale of shares in energy companies. Otherwise, it has been clear for some time that this will happen, for example, the sale of the GEN – this goes with the package to the NEK. Of course, the state will retain that share that, even under the Interstate Treaty, it must retain, but the attempt to change leadership in the GEN was already in the spring, and it has also been severely creaked in the coalition. One of the last attempts was, I think, two or three weeks ago, and a man who is more friendly to the government should be at the head of the GEN – in fact, an obedient official from that end. Of course, then came a much wider and better solution – this is the sale of the GEN. It is the sale of the Posavina chicken, which, even in the worst recession and crisis, bears exclusively golden eggs. Which country is so stupid to sell it? Looks like it's ours. I think it is clear where this money will go, too, from this agreement – if you look at what is under 2nd indent, you will see where this money will go. We are full of words about the need for renewable energy sources, but we are planning to sell hydropower plants on Drava for example. Moreover, I hear that a new energy law has been prepared to kill a private initiative, bring down small investors and destroy localised energy self-sufficiency in the long term. This is how we like to talk about self-sufficiency, energy as well as other things. We often hear – today we have heard it at least 175 times – that the country is mismanagement with its property. Is that why we're selling it? Yeah, let's do better. The Slovenian State Holding Act is bad, not for us, it is bad for people, and it will take away what is left, so we are against it. In the arrogance of this government, the unheard of, our proposals have not been taken into account and then, how interestingly, the second time in a few months, the signatures that are now somehow found are lost. I don't know. We'll wait for what's gonna happen. The talks of the coalition on the referendum are not worth commenting on, because it comes from the mouth of the people who have pushed their political path through referendums. That's why it's a shame to lose words. And I believe, still, that people are not stupid, and I hope they know that the holding company does not break the existence or the absence of this country and the well-being of people. They're not that stupid. I understand your zeal for the attacks on our referendum decision. You are working hard to prevent it by stepping over the thresholds of democracy and legislation, and it is clear why — if the people at the referendum do not confirm your plans, then the credibility of the government is already very much conceived at the bottom and then there is only one more – you know what. You have made use of the necessary reform measures for your desire to plunder the remaining state property. What reforms did we need last year, and even earlier, and this year, of course, even more? This is also the case with the credit card house, which mainly talks about pension reform and labour market reform. This is all said by that credit card house where all the members of the group are likely to have a big stake today because we all talk so much about it. However, there is no law on holding there and by insisting on this law and toying and by sitting here all day talking about it, you are threatening reforms, the real ones – pension, labour reform. That's what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u148	Mr Jani Möderndorfer, prepare Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u149	"In view of these reasons, we demand a call for a legislative referendum to decide whether to enforce a law that will allow the last phase of privatisation of state capital assets, so that only a few individuals will be enriched by the assets created or created by citizens of the Republic of Slovenia for decades. This law avoids responsibility, and people will face even greater social hardships. The referendum should decide on a law that will not only continue to allow but also open the door more widely to the irregularities that have occurred in the past in the management and privatisation of state property. We propose that the referendum be held together with the 2010 local elections," the SDS called and, I think, the SNS, which actually spoke and used this language to initiate the AUKN referendum procedure. These were all written in 2010 when we were already in recession, in crisis. We had serious problems, the government was preparing for reforms, but that same party was then using a vocabulary that simply needed to be checked by the people. Of course it wasn't. It was not because the SNS changed its mind, they withdrew their signatures and, of course, the attempt was unsuccessful. Today, use the language used by the chairman of the Finance Committee – in a state-of-the-art, non-state style and what I know, what else – I would like to present, of course, only to lead to the point when the green light is turned on, that something has to be done. I can tell you in peace that we are willing to do a lot of things, but not in the way that the Chairman of the Finance Committee suggested when he said, "Make a national move and simply withdraw the signatures." What are you gonna do? What will the government do? We don't play games because we don't just file one request for a referendum just to get a little time in this room. We just don't get the answer from this side. Therefore, consideration is urgently needed. In view of the fact that you will succeed today by requiring a vote, I hope that you will seriously consider what this actually means. You've had 30 days to think about moves on your part, not just on this side. I believe you'll do it. The Secretary of State, who will go to the analies because he likes to tell anecdotes, has said many things today. Mr Zivkovic said this was all planned further. In fact, he wanted to say that we talked to the unions and arranged for everything we have today and even said that — and with this he had lied to one of my colleagues — the union was in the parliamentary group and was negotiating because they were late for the negotiations. I can tell you exactly what happened, so we don't turn words and fall into an anecdotes. This anecdote, in the opinion of the Secretary of State, occurred 25. At 9:20 a.m., when they were in the parliamentary group, three Members participated. This meeting was called for by the union, with the participation of Renata Brunskola, Joža Velinja and Stanko Stepišnik. They wanted to know what our thoughts were about the situation, the referendum itself. What is most important — they wanted to talk about energy, because it was an energy union, not a rubber union, which is evident to us today. That's an essential difference. Therefore, Mr State Secretary Zivkovic will have to seriously consider when and in what way he accuses – unless it was again one of the manoeuvres that Mr Minister Šuštersič is very keen to use when he says that this was all pre-arranged and that we had a fig in our pocket all the time so that we could take advantage of the opportunity and make a request for the last 15 minutes. To be clear once and for all, I repeat this once again, and this is what I am accustomed to in this National Assembly, because it is simply necessary to repeat as a parrot all the time one and the same because you are doing this – we have not planned this. And that, very simply put, for one reason. Indeed, we have been informed by this same union – and there has also been a first contact with this union, which is discussed by the Secretary of State, Mr Zivkovic – that there will be nothing out of these signatures because they have simply been notified too late. There's a very big problem here. Not only Positive Slovenia anymore, but everyone sitting in this hall and government. In fact, credibility and trust have fallen to such a low point with an action that no one in the National Assembly wants to comment on today and we keep acting like there is no such thing, and journalists on Twitter are already asking what is really going on. When we all find together that in these 35 days we will once again have the signing of another referendum before us, instead of seriously settling down and asking ourselves who is actually threatening the foundations of democracy. That'll be interesting information. That is why I appeal to everything, and above all to those who have raised the question about who is actually working for this country and who is not, and what is an act of state and what is not. It would be national if we actually called, sat down and started talking about what to do. I have a concrete suggestion that we do not move. Prepare a law with three articles, because of me also with only one, which you will adopt after a quick procedure – which is common to you and there is no problem, because you know this, you have proved this in the last 8 months – and by which you repeal the existing law that will take place when the time is right. When this is accepted, we will withdraw the signatures immediately when we see that this is filed. It's no problem, because then we'll start talking from the beginning. However, I am convinced that this law does not have any harmful consequences for long-term development, because today there are all the attributes that ensure that we can continue to manage this property until we really agree on what is best for the property in this country, which is owned — don't forget — by citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor, and Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Once again a nice greeting to all colleagues and colleagues. My findings are that in the last 14 days or three weeks in this house of democracy, the atmosphere is very electrified. For what it's like, it's probably everyone's interpreting themselves. We also have to admit that in this house, everyone says whatever he wants, can lie, can insult, or insult. Personally, I felt it the most. That's a start. Now for the claim itself. It is true that you are in the coalition – at least I am so sure – we do not want a referendum. But I have to say – someone said that we are afraid of him – that we are also afraid of him, especially because the general mood of people in Slovenia is a little different this time than it might have been in last year or a little while ago. The referendum also brings certain costs, people, citizens, citizens, and they think that they have sent us to this house of democracy, who have some responsibility and duty to do our duty, and this obligation must happen here. I would remind you – some of you were sitting or sitting together on Gregorčič 27 at the beginning of this summer. These were the presidents of the parties and the leaders of the parliamentary groups, and we agreed that we would jointly prepare these two laws – we are talking about one today, but we are not talking about one because the conditions for the introduction of the referendum are not met. It's been a while since then. According to my information, you've been very cooperative, and you've spoken to certain things. After we had a debate in the National Assembly, you obstructed certain things and didn't want to talk. That's what we're reading today. Why? Why didn't we talk when we had a lot of time? One of my good colleagues today said and evaluated how Madam Vice-President works, provide me with a normal debate, because my colleagues and colleagues are bothering me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u152	Wait a minute, buddy. I respectfully ask all fellow Members, fellow Members, to listen to Mr Jurša's debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u153	You don't have to listen if you don't want to, but I would ask for silence so I can say what I mean. I'm usually very short, and this time I won't be too long. The functioning of the coalition and the functioning of the opposition are clear to all of us. Some of us sat in the coalition and still sit, some of us sat in opposition for a while. My colleague Matjaž Zanoškar smiles because he knows that it is much better to be in the opposition because you can also be very popular. That's what the SDS used to say, if I may add. It's always easier to be in opposition. The coalition assumes some responsibility in this country. But the opposition can speak in a kind manner. That someone said today that they were social, that they tend to be weak, etc. – including the party I belong to, take care of it, but we are also in the coalition, and we must ensure, on the other hand, that we bring as much resources into this budget as possible, that we will be in as much debt as possible and that this is a key issue, both at local and national level. We have said that this is one of the most difficult issues in this mandate period when we are also talking about holding. The Group of Members I belong to supported this, and at this point also supports and I think we need to centrally regulate the management of state property. It is very important for us that the Capital Society is a separate legal person within the holding company, that it is managed by representatives of pensioners and trade unions and that we provide these funds for the coordination of pensions. I am confident that in the following year and also in 2014 – a great deal of skeptics among you – we will also coordinate the pensions of pensioners. It is also important that we – one of our colleagues from the SDS – say that we have not yet achieved something like this for the pensioners – 10% of all the property sold in the holding company for the capital investment, says Kad. Now just for a little while about the Triglav Insurance Company. This is also a principle in the debate. At the Triglav Insurance Company, my assessment is that he's a bad master. We've got some bad news at the Triglav Insurance. At the Triglav Insurance Company we have worse returns than some insurance companies in the Balkans. This tells us clearly that we do not have a good master and one who runs this insurance company. I would suggest that the opposition – which I respect – both sides and others should withdraw. That doesn't mean they're the only ones who should step back. I suggest that the coalition should take a full step back and try to talk – but, this opportunity and opportunity, we have already given you. You didn't use it. I hope you'll also give us this opportunity to take advantage of it this time. And there's something else about removing the consequences of the flood. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that the consequences of the 2010 flood have not been solved. Who was — if he was then in power — and who is now? I'm afraid you won't be saved, but people have suffered damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Jursha. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, 50 seconds, you'll be able to apply. The next one has the word mag. Matthew Tonin, please. Get ready, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u155	Colleagues and colleagues! My colleague Möderndorfer said, "We're ready for a lot of things." I am adding – nothing that this government coalition and this government are proposing. I'm sorry. We want to talk and talk, even before the summer, we broke the debate, but it didn't help anything. Your problem is that you only understand a successful conversation if your word applies. Unfortunately, this Parliament is not the Municipality of Ljubljana. Today's decision should not be a problem for anyone. If the Constitutional Court says the coalition is wrong, then you'll get your referendum. Looks like there might be another one, but I'm telling you, you're not gonna save anything with this.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u156	Mag. Alenka Bratusek, 55 seconds, you won't. I see from the government that there is no desire. Applicant, Mr. Jože Tanko
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u157	Thank you very much for your words at the conclusion of this debate. Many things have been said in the debate, which also hold the opposition and also many things that do not. The fact is that this part needs to be decided. We propose that this request be decided by the Constitutional Court. On the basis of the argument attached, the Constitutional Court will decide whether or not to prohibit the referendum. One thing or another – it will come true in one way or another, without any speculation or forecasting or accusing anyone of anything. As regards the solution or proposals that have emerged during this period. After part of the signatures have been cancelled and the conditions for this part have not yet been met, this means that we have all these things to talk about now. There, from 15 to 20 July, and until the end of September or beyond, these discussions and coordinations continued. No one said that these procedures were not correct. Mag. The cook, who led the working group, did the job correctly. As far as possible, this law has also been incorporated from the opposition proposals, and I think it is a mag. The cook has already counted everything that's been involved several times. So, here to say that the opposition is being played or that it has not been taken into account is, I'll say, unserious. Anyone who has been involved or has followed these matters knows that these matters are not worth it. These initiatives, too, to continue to be discussed, and in the meantime, I do not know what option to suspend the implementation of this law – I do not think that is possible. There is no such basis in the legislative process, there is no possibility, and the President of the country, who was the first initiator for such a solution, should probably know that he has made a mockery of his proposal. Even those who repeat these variants after him do not use them on facts or on realistic options. If we want to do anything about it, the law must continue to be enforced. Marriage must be published, and only then can any changes be made. In the event that the referendum is to be approved or rejected by the referendum, this will mean that no change is possible for a year on this basis. That means everything you want to settle quickly won't work. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member Those who are a little more familiar with these matters in the opposition should already know and teach their colleagues properly. What does it mean if a marriage falls at a referendum? This means that we have an existing Capital Investment Management Act, the so-called ZUKN, and an agency that has so far proved to be an inadequate institution, as some operator of other operators, which has not been able to maximize income from state assets during the period of its operation, nor to maximize revenues from the sale of state assets, which has been realized during this period. That's what the numbers are talking about. The numbers are inevitable — I can repeat them again. In 2011 – according to the 2010 business, this was somewhere in the middle of the former government’s mandate – 33.8 million dividends of all state assets were paid to the state budget. At the same time, in 2011, almost EUR 507 million were returned to the state property, so that important state companies, including monopolies or strategic investments, could at all function and play the role for which they were set up. If this EUR 507 million of recapitalisation had not been implemented, a large proportion of these companies would have collapsed. This means that more than a thousand people would go to the unemployed market, putting themselves in the waiting line for a new job. The contribution in 2011 to servicing the operation of state-owned companies or companies owned by a majority of state-owned companies was 15 times as much as the dividend from that asset. Now let someone among you explain to me what this silver is like, how those who manage the assets do it with this silver. How those who manage this silver in a diversified manner work on how they coordinate, how much they are able to harmonise in order to maximize decisions in order to maximize revenues or sales targets. Kad, the Court, the DSU and the others voted differently in the congregations of these companies, all of which are state-owned and state-owned. If this State Holding Act that we propose falls, that means that this policy will continue this agony in this part. A while ago, on one of the committees or committees, when we dealt with state property, Mr Webro and I developed a debate. For example, the Municipality of Kočevje is one of the municipalities where the share of state property is extremely large. I think that among the municipalities in this country, there is a strong over the average — of forests, of other things, virtually everything else is state property, very little private property. When we look at the relationship in this congregation, we see that it is a congregation with far - reaching problems or one of the biggest problems in the country — unemployment, hopelessness, and so on. In cases where we have a lot of state property and such a dispersed property, there are exactly the same problems. In this case, it appears that the State is not a good owner, that it is not able to maximize matters. This is due mainly to the fact that administrations and supervisors from some political options have been installed in individual companies, and then they go ahead with these things. That's a big problem. Governance or control between the two options, between the state holding company proposed by us and the agency, is significantly different. While the Council of the Agency is politically constituted, without any representative, such as the Economic and Social Council or the opposition, a structured membership is proposed to the Supervisory Board of the State Holding. The obligation is that one of the supervisors is a representative of the Economic and Social Council, provided that employers or employees or trade unions so decide, and one is reliable from the opposition's quota, as this is the Commission's proposal for the supervision of public finances where the opposition has a majority. The one in the marriage that will stand in the event that this one falls at the referendum is not. There is no possibility that every time the opposition or representatives of the Economic and Social Council would have any possibility of co-operation, decision-making in the management process. All these stories about how the sale of property will take place and perhaps something else — these are some clues that have no basis. With this government's decision, nothing has happened in this area, and much has happened in the previous mandate, although there was no strategy for managing capital investments. There was a decision over the strategy and the policy had an impact on decisions. The recapitalisation of Adrie Airways took place, the purchase of shares on the stock exchange for the New Credit Bank Maribor, under political pressure, on a political order. I don't think at the order of the then official at the Ministry of Finance, and no one denied it. There was a direct decision on what would be the conduct and forced three state-owned companies to invest in the New Credit Bank of Maribor, in the purchase of shares – EUR 47 million, and this is the part that was then not in dividends for 2011. How much is now worth of this 47 million euro, you can probably see – some change. Mr Kavtičnik said the analysis was not ready. Business back analyses exist – you can check them all. In the future, projections can be made — this is a major difference — and scenarios on how this property will be managed. This will be possible when this asset is pooled when it is evaluated according to the single methodology and when the classification and management strategy for these investments is adopted. But then it will be possible to make a real projection of how and on which things are going to go. There were also some indications of this union arrangement. This is an agreement between ministers and trade unions. Once a real decision has been reached, this will be processed through the National Assembly and then you will have the opportunity, with respect to the opposition, to amend this proposal, without a hitch. We can also do it in the coalition if we agree to do so. If this agreement on how much energy must remain in such or different ownership, you will be able to amend this proposal when we consider the strategy in the National Assembly. You can set different ratios, different quotas between private and public and so on. This is an opportunity offered by the legislative process and these options must be exploited when they are in place. However, it is not right that there is so much debate about these things and that when nothing has actually happened when we are talking about whether or not we are going to get any marriage. There was a lot of debate, perhaps not so much today, but in the past, about how much property would be stolen and sold under a table in some untransparent, opaque way. Nothing will sell it in such a way that you don't worry. If anything happens in this area, we also have appropriate institutions, bodies and also political procedures so that this matter can be verified and assessed. It won't be a problem. Mr Kavtičnik listed or somehow defined this difference between us as, I would say, a social group, a coalition, and between them as a terrible social group in this National Assembly. If most of these claims were to invert function 1 with x, it would hold. Even if you take into account the actual situation and the actual situation. Because that's what it is, it's what it is. However, he forgot to mention one claim that in this country we also have public officials who favour Cyprus over Slovenia, who have transferred their assets to Cyprus because it is probably a more favourable mile for financial operations or to other destinations, and here they receive salaries from public funds. Well, that's ethically or morally controversial. I don't mind if the public official has the property and can have it much – thank God, at least there won't be any problems after the end of the term of office. But to talk about raising taxes, raising VAT and so on, about the general rate and so on, and at the same time some of the quota that says so transferred their assets to the tax haven, but before that, they had paid from public funds. That's probably not the right thing to do. Probably not. Before you accuse anyone, it would be good for you to clear these things up with yourself. Now there's something else about these signatures. There were also many indications that I had proposed to the College that these matters should be checked at the General Police Administration. One colleague even talked about returning to some dark spheres and so on. I am very interested in where you were in the previous mandate, when we experienced such prosperity, that gross social product fell most in the European Union, that we owed 8 billion euros, but we were not able to open one net job with this money, but we were producing 60,000 net unemployed at the office of work and some 60,70 000 of those who lost their licenses and work permits, that is to say, foreigners who worked in Slovenia. The result of this enormous debt was about 120, 130, 140 thousand lost jobs, and we spent 8 billion euros and finally no net employees. You can take a look at this information, Mr. Former Minister, and see if they don't hold it. You voted for them, you decided on them, and this came to an end. We are now in a situation where we have to take measures that are not popular, whether we want to or not. These are the measures that each government would probably have to take, but they must be taken. This mandate has come upon us, and we must do this task and we will do it. The Slovenian State Holding Act is one of the five necessary measures to be taken in this mandate. There is also consolidation of the financial system and other things, and this is where these things need to be realized. Whatever anyone thinks about these things – the National Assembly on the same things will never think unitedly, not within the coalition, not within the same party in the coalition, not between the coalition and the opposition. These facts, if we are in Parliament, must be adopted and considered reasonably, but the problem is when these things are argued in a way that is not appropriate. Nor is there an exception, I and my Members, probably even sometimes, to some things we argue in an inappropriate way – but, only in this way, to argue is probably a problem and it would be good for us to do these things. I mentioned earlier this criticism of your signatures and those negative reactions that were. If you are so sure of your right, you can have the GPU check your signatures. It would be interesting to know that you are so sure that everything is properly done — perhaps it would not be a problem and would eliminate any doubts about these matters. You're tough enough, but if you're not, then I can see that there's a problem in this part, too, to stop anything from happening, it's pretty bad. The President of the National Assembly believes in some words, while others for similar suspicions he has nailed to the cross and treated them as examples of those who do not deserve a parliamentary function. He didn't do the same thing to everyone. I think that's enough. Perhaps later, though, if there is opportunity and need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u158	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired – we have 29 minutes left – I ask whether, under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Anyone can apply, at least a minute and a maximum of 5 minutes. Here you go. The application shall be made. I'm closing the application. 49 panellists have been reported. Time is too short. We note that time-sharing is not possible, so I am closing the debate. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the proposal for a decision, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. At the request of Positive Slovenia at the time of the meeting, I would like to ask the Head of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Möderndorfer, whether it requires a 45-minute recess before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u159	I'm afraid I must disappoint you – I hear the shouts here: "No, no, no!" – you won't go home so soon because I'm waiting for the president of the National Assembly. I still haven't received an answer, and at least, I expect an answer, what was given at the outset when I announced this, and since this has not been fulfilled, I expect you to approve a 45-minute break under the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u160	Thank you very much. 19.11, 45 minutes. So at 19.55, we continue the meeting of the National Assembly. Of course, I will also inform the President, who will certainly be present in the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u161	I inform you that the vote on the point of the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly will begin at 8.15 p.m. So 20 more minutes of rest.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u162	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to inform you that the closed meeting of the College, which was requested by Mr Jani Möderndorfer, Head of the Positive Slovenia Group, is already under way in the course of the meeting of the National Assembly to clarify some issues, is still under way, and the session is scheduled to continue by vote at 20.25. I'm asking you to understand. Ten more minutes!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u163	Dear colleagues and colleagues, before we move to a decision on the proposal for a decision, I would like to inform you about a topic that has also been discussed at the informal consultation of the leaders of the Group of Members, which we have just concluded. This is the issue of signatures under the initiative to start collecting signatures for the request for a legislative referendum on the law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. In recent days, we have dealt very much with the actual and legal issues of the demands put forward by the Group of Members for the two referendums. At the same time, the issue of signatures under the initiative of the Trade Union of the chemical, non-metallic and rubber industries was also raised in the air. The union stated that it had issued a larger number of signatures than was later found in the Ministry of the Interior verification. Because of open and contentious questions – because it was obvious that someone was wrong here – I invited the initiators to the National Assembly to see, together with our professional services, how this process was going on and to get all the necessary explanations. This meeting is supposed to be tomorrow. Before this meeting, I wanted to obtain all the necessary explanations so that I would be well prepared for the meeting myself and have asked the expert services for a report and a description of the procedure. This report has shown that this number of signatures has arrived in the National Assembly, and I will say in concrete terms, 307 signatures. According to those who participated in these proceedings, and these persons are in the State Assembly 6, they have been, as usual, 15 years in progress, copies of these signatures have been sent through the courier to the Ministry of the Interior, and today, when I requested that the number of sheets compared to the original signatures and the number of these copies be checked, we found that the difference is 36 sheets. I called all six people who were dealing with this documentary material, talked to them. It is 6 employees who have worked in the National Assembly for a number of years, from six and a half years to over 20 years, all screened, all authorized to access classified information. They have all verbally assured me and have also made an official note that all procedures have been carried out in their entirety and in accordance with current practice. I must point out that this 15-year practice does not contain controls on individual points, but is based on confidence in the handover of signatures to the National Assembly, on the surrender from the National Assembly to the MNZ, and vice versa. There is no official bookmark, record or anything like that on any point. For 15 years, this is how it works, in my opinion questionable and problematic. What we have has been assured by six of our associates, whom I personally believe. I do not mean to say that there has been a mistake at the Ministry of the Interior, but I have agreed with the Minister to carry out a similar internal investigation as it was carried out in the National Assembly, and it will be evident whether there has been a mistake there or something else has happened. That's all I can say until now. All day long, I have dealt with all the details of this process, so I apologize for your absence and the leaders of the sent groups in particular for their lack of information. I thought it was extremely important to inform the initiators immediately. In particular, that we have the original signature lists in the National Assembly and that we will immediately send them for verification, which is very likely to mean a different number of valid signatures as previously established. I would like to point out explicitly that, for the first time, I have no reason to doubt the conduct of any of the employees in the National Assembly, nor do I doubt the conduct of any of the employees in the Ministry of the Interior. On all other issues, however, in the coming days. I propose that we move now to a vote on the decision. Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Given that you have given a statement or a statement to the media, I do not know how many times today, it is clear from these statements from these media and portals that we can monitor that the problems have arisen at the Ministry of the Interior. I suggest that, in view of what you have just said, you immediately make a statement, where you deny this matter, correct it, so that the matter is credible. Obviously, the procedures are not completed, and the statements that the media have taken are such as the whole of this problem has taken place at the Ministry of the Interior. I suggest you fix this matter immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u165	Dear Mr Tanko, at the press conference I had on this issue, I said explicitly, explicitly, that I have no doubt that there has been an irregularity in the Ministry of the Interior and that I do not want to point to anyone with my finger. All I said was the facts that six of the co-workers who handled this material literally stated in the official note. I didn't say anything more than that. In the coming days, we will be solving this problem with the Minister of the Interior if this is a problem. I propose that we move to a vote on the proposal for a decision. Can we vote? Procedurally, Mr. Möderndorfer. An explanation of the voice? On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u166	In view of the fact that before the decision on the matter to be taken by the proposer, the group of members of the coalition tabled a constitutional review of the law itself, I can say that on the financial committee where we have jointly discussed the proposed material, we have also proposed an amendment on behalf of the Group of Members, which would also exclude the individual reference to the articles of the Constitution, on the basis of which this proposal for a constitutional assessment has also been written. We feel that such an assessment is pointless and even unfounded, especially since in the 7th point of this material, this document explicitly states under the headings — this is on pages 18 - 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. In particular, let me define and say the following. We will not support such a constitutional assessment in the parliamentary group, not because we do not want any constitutional assessment of the work to be carried out on the sole request of the meaning or eligibility of the referendum question, but especially because it is also given as a basis for determining whether Members and Members of the Positive Slovenia have signed their signature or expressed their will. Given the Constitution and the law, it is very clear, and also all Members, with the exception of Member Melita Župevc, who is not present today because he is on maternity leave, and it is you, the President, and it is also known to the public, has stated in writing, the purpose was more than clear. That is why such a constitutional judgment is pointless and, therefore, we do not intend or support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u167	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, we will not support the proposal for a constitutional review of the referendum issue. We have also announced this in the position of the Group of Members, because we believe that no statement in this request is true, and in fact it is very far from what the actual content of the Slovenian State Holding Act is. Throughout the process of adopting the Slovenian State Holding Act, we have regularly and argumentatively pointed out the shortcomings of the law and the dangers posed by such a transfer of assets amounting to 12 billion to the holding company. By doing so, the country will permanently lose assets worth 12 billion, which will then be managed by a company that will be fully politically named by the ruling coalition. It is not expected that this company will follow the interests of the country and people in order to improve the economic situation in Slovenia, but, above all, to take care of narrow party interests. This is something that, in our view, is unacceptable for the conduct of any government or coalition at a time when we urgently need effective solutions for economic development and ensuring adequate financial stability. Let me also point out that, in our opinion, the proposer of this item has misused the opportunity and the opportunity given to him by the Rules of Procedure to have the last word and somehow try to dispel the debate or reasoning that has been mediated in the debate by Members and Members. This monologue shows that there is no small sense of being able to solve these problems together. Since it has been exposed to how bad it is in Slovenia, if it is State property, I just want to clarify that discrimination against this law can also be converted to holding property of all those municipalities. Why, for example, would one of the congregations that was appointed, nomadic, pay a million euros a year to pay denationalisation? This is also an additional reason for us in the Group of Social Democrats that we cannot support this initiative because it is harmful in several ways [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u169	Thank you. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mag. Marko Pogačnik, Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u170	Mr President, thank you for saying so. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the constitutional opinion. We estimate that the arguments we have listed are strong enough, because the consequences of non-acceptance or time constraints on the implementation of this law will be severe, and we do not rule out the need for any international monetary assistance. We estimate that this law is good, transparent to allow more responsible, rational and, in particular, more transparent governance of state property. Of course, we consider it a legitimate right for a parliamentary group or individual Members to give a referendum initiative, but we are convinced that the substantive reasons for the referendum are not that it is merely political. Above all, we are interested in the credibility of the Members who signed this referendum request, because their founding act states among the 12 key projects that the referendum is only a citizens' initiative for important social issues. This means retransmission – everyone has run under the same programme. We are convinced that the opposition here is trying to stop and destroy the existing government in every way, especially because the government is finding solutions, is agreeing with the social partners, and we are also assessing that it is very important for the sustainability and stability of the pension treasury to be adopted and enforced by this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u171	Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? Procedurally, Mr. Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u172	Dear President, I should be allowed as one who has fought for human rights since 1990, or perhaps since the 1980s, and for democracy in this country, to organise protests and strike before the CKK, to express resentment that we are going so easily past the referendum fraud that has proved to be a fact today. I am talking about a precedent that is not worthy of any democratic state, on the contrary – something is unheard of, not in this country, but in this world! As a member of the National Assembly and a representative of the electorate and electorate, I do not care if you and Gorenak will agree on where there are so many and so many signatures for the referendum. I'm worried about the fact that these signatures are gone! That's what I'm worried about, and we're going through this and we're going to be like, "Oh, we're going to talk about this tomorrow, we're going to talk about the content of this." What we're doing today is what we did to these people in the union or did, they did -- I don't know who did it, you'll figure it out. The referendum place is a precedent in any democratic country and it is so easy to go through this – it is the biggest violation and the biggest embarrassment for this country! For Slovenia, which has grown on human rights and freedoms! We made this country because we defended human rights. But now we've trampled them and passed them like nothing happened. President, I suggest that we not decide anything today, but that you start an intensive investigation into why it went so well. Because I came from Ukraine, from Kiev, where I commented to the international community that fraud was the worst evil of democracy and came to Slovenia, where I found out that it happened and that we knew all day that it happened, and now we're going to look for the culprit and again what I was talking about – we're going to look for the culprit where it happened, or at DZ or MNZ, I wonder – it's an objective responsibility that it happened! This should not happen in a democratic country, and I therefore suggest that we do not decide on anything today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u173	Good. We'll continue the meeting. Let me reassure you that this is no fraud, that we can talk about fraud when we have some evidence. That the signatures were here and that I had informed the trade unions today, and they made it very clear to me that they express no doubt about the functioning of the National Assembly and its services. Let's move on. Who wants to explain the voice? I'm opening the application. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! "In a cultured world, there is an act of speech in the uncultivated world." These are the thoughts of the Chinese philosopher Confucius. Of course, I support the amendment of legislation, but not the worse. The talk was about privileges – whether any privileges from the past should change privileges in the future. We needed reforms about six years ago. In 2006, then Minister Jože P. Damian proposed reforms, was heard and resigned as Minister. Reforms are in a great hurry today. It's true that he's in a hurry. However, such solutions must be found, conceived, acceptable to the position, opposition and the professional public. However, I do not object to this Constitutional Court review decision. I believe that it is a good opportunity to reflect on and amend legislation – one that will enable the proper control, management and management of state property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u175	Mr. Jerko Chehovin, after him mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u176	Thank you. Today we have listened to the attack on the opposition, and I must say that when I listened to some members of the coalition, I felt that they were much better placed in the opposition role. Finally, I was disappointed because I did not hear any positive response from the proposer to the proposals we made – in order to be able to talk again, to make things right, this option was still given, but this was categorically denied. I must say that this is a law whereby the government concentrates on the power to manage state property, with the service assistant of our National Assembly, in the hands of a handful, under the control of a ruling policy. It's not about anything else. Parliament shall be entitled to have a constitutional right to dispose of state property and to transfer to an economic society. But here I agree, quote, last year someone said, "People voted against bad solutions because they think they exist better. And they're right." Who said that? I'm Mr. Janez Janša. And who said, the second quote, "The harm that a bad parliament and a bad government can do is far greater than the harm that one or two referendums do"? That's what the vice-president of the government said, Mr Šuštersič. I agree with them, and I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u177	Mag. Branko Grimes, followed by Mrs. Tamara Vont.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u178	Of course, I will vote in favour, as the argument in the proposal for an assessment is certainly justified. Let me add another constitutional argument to this argument, which we have not discussed today. The late Dr. Jože Pučnik, the real father of Slovenia, achieved that, when the Slovenian Constitution was formed, article 67 states that the law must stipulate the realisation of property by ensuring its economic, ecological and social function. To the extent that this article is respected in the current regulation — even when it comes to the full realization of its economic function — there is, of course, a great question. But when it comes to the issue of its social function, with only symbolic sums or even losses coming from the giant money invested in that property that is covered in companies where public property is, it is obvious that this kind of debate would remind us of that debate, whether it is possible to fall anywhere else from the ground. Surely, the new law, whose aim is to make this property significantly better used, is significantly more productive – and thus its social function would also be fully enabled, it is said that the inflows from this would strengthen health, education, social security of people, the general well-being of people – to the full extent that the constitutional provision I have been talking about is being implemented. The current regime, however, is inappropriate and obviously inappropriate in this respect.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u179	Mrs. Tamara Vont, for her mag. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u180	I'm sorry, but I can't quite get past what we've heard today and what I think is really the biggest topic today, and what it's about today, I think it's best that my colleague Roman is talking about. I am new to Parliament, but I tell you that I am personally genuinely shaken by what has happened. I wonder how many times this may have happened on the basis of trust, or perhaps it has already happened. I don't understand. I really don't understand how we can be so calm about this and act like nothing's happened. You probably copied these signatures after some wisdom, and you sent the photocopies to the Ministry, or whatever, and you kept the originals in the National Assembly, so all the signatures are here. But if that is true, then no one, never and never, will be able to say anything in this House. I don't know if you're aware of that. I don't even understand how we can sit here cold right now. I don't understand how you can't see what happened. Something terrible has happened. If that's true, something terrible happened. Something that should never have happened. Of course I'll vote against it. That's anyway, it's a second-class topic now. Sorry, that's a second-class topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u181	Mrs. Vontah, I can only say that I shared your feelings for a large part of today. I was shocked and shocked by what had happened, but my interpretation was different. I don't believe there's been any fraud here, because I always come from the fact that people aren't basically cheaters and that they have to prove fraud if it comes to them, so I don't believe it. However, there has been a certain point of human or technical error. Surely these procedures have been going on for 15 years and are still running too superficially today, and this will have to be taken very seriously. I was just as horrified and shocked as you were, believe me, from the moment I found out about this fact. I don't care, so I reacted immediately and told the unions that these signatures were safe and that they would go to check and that there would probably be enough to start the collection, 40,000. The word has magic. Stanko Stepišnik, followed by Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There's been a great deal of a break in this National Assembly lately. We have already heard that for certain laws by the Legal and Legislative Service, they were said to be unconstitutional, even experts have predicted this, but you have allowed them to be forced to vote. Trust in the country is growing. That's an extremely big concern. This last, the loss of referendum signatures, which is an extreme example of inconsistencies, but does not wash the objective responsibility of anyone, at least the leader of the source where this error occurred. Even if they move together, they will both be responsible for this and I hope that they will step down, otherwise we will try to make sure that this happens on the legal path. In a true democratic society, I would stand down. Recently, what we are looking at, criminalisation, stigmatisation, inability to achieve economic growth with so much EU aid – 1.4 billion – and with 300 measures taken in the field of the economy, but still shows next year that economic growth will be negative by 2%. This means that the government is unable to take this train forward and my opinion is to look in the mirror and step back as soon as possible. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u183	Mrs. Masha Kociper, for her, Mr. Matevž Frangež. My friend Steph, if you'll just turn it off, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u184	Your Honor! The coalition's request for a constitutional review of our request for a referendum is totally unfounded and, in view of the clear practice of the Constitutional Court so far, there is no possibility of success. There is only one more manoeuvre of this coalition to prevent, this time, the opposition, from exercising its constitutional rights in a way that you have in your own way disabled the unions. However, the requirement of 30 Members to exercise their constitutional and legal rights is legitimate and on the ground where such important issues are concerned. The opposition used all the legal tools to challenge this law, and the bottom was what you did to the unions. It is right that people have the opportunity to decide on such an important issue as how the final phase of privatisation of the only property we have left will be. Either it will be transparent, transparent and in the interest of all citizens, or it will allow abuse and exploitation on the political path. That is why we have supported this request by the Members of Positive Slovenia with three other Members, and this is also what the referendum as a constitutional institution is intended to do. It's true that we used to say that we don't support the referendum. Not yet. However, when we weigh our commitment to work for the benefit of this country and its citizens, this weighting is not a dilemma. We must act in the interests of the citizens. If this is a government referendum, like I said, then so be it. Whatever people decide, we will respect that. If they say that this government and its actions after one year of restrictive austerity and disputed decisions, they support, then so be it. But they can say that they have enough of this rule and destruction, and they want something else. Maybe they want a different way, a different solution to the crisis and a president who sees a light at the end of the tunnel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u185	Mr. Matevž Frangež, then Mr. Darko Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u186	When I reasoned this afternoon on the reasons why I would vote against this request, I made it clear and loudly that the responsible, President of the National Assembly and Minister of Home Affairs would give very clear reasons for what had happened to 394 signatures of workers and workers requiring the opening of a referendum on a bad bank. At the time, I had never seen any press releases about procedures that were probably already under way in the National Assembly. I accompanied this with the thought that while we were watching to ensure that our assets were not stolen, it was obvious that someone had stolen our democracy. Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly! It's not about finding a culprit among six individuals. That's not what this is about. It is the fact that a fundamental error has been made in this process, which has seriously endangered the exercise of one of the most basic human rights, civil rights, political rights – the right to a referendum. Not a referendum required by politics, but a referendum demanded by people. This was threatened either by malicious acts — and I do not renounce this option in this government — or by negligence. In any event, I would like to point out that the President of the National Assembly should have all the necessary assurances with regard to the completion of the procedure in the preceding week. We are not looking for responsibility between six, Mr President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u187	Mr Darko Jazbec, then Mr Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u188	Thank you very much. What are we voting on now – can its rejection of the referendum have counter-constitutional consequences? Mr Pirnat said that the law itself was unconstitutional. If I understand correctly, we are voting on whether to judge, if the consequences are unconstitutional, if we do not adopt an anti-constitutional law. That sounds very complicated, but that's exactly what we're discussing right now. Today's session, I believe. is totally unnecessary. First time. Why? Since the will of Members is perfectly clear and must be taken into account. Secondly, because the will of trade unions is perfectly clear and this must be taken into account. It is true that some signatures have been lost, but again, but it must also be said that if they did not have the trade unions of these photocopies, these signatures would not have appeared today. So, it's not a mistake, but it's some planned job that didn't work out. I would say, however, that both laws have been adopted by emergency procedure. In Austria, in recent years they have once been taken by emergency procedure, when the floods were great. Today, when one third of Slovenia is underwater, when people are frozen to save, which is to be resolved, we are debating how to bypass a referendum right. I'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u189	Mr. Lucky Meh, then Mrs. Janja Klasinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u190	Actually, I'm sad, I'm dismayed, I'm disappointed in a lot of different things. In fact, this meeting today should not be because it could be tomorrow. Today we should discuss perhaps the catch, what we will really do. This meeting should be suspended in order not to talk here about matters that we do not know in detail. However, it is evident that 400 signatures or 370 or how many are missing and someone is responsible. Obviously, we could ask ourselves how much of this has happened in all of these matters that we are talking about today. There has already been a talk today about adopting an amendment when we discuss what we will do with energy — even if someone has signed an agreement with the unions to stick to it and 50% of the energy will be privatized or sold. Today, in this National Assembly, someone spoke about the possibility of accepting amendments. We are the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why we should not discuss this. I propose procedurally – let's stop this session, because we will obviously also discuss the referendum for the bad bank and we will also be discussing the same debate that we are discussing today. It seems to me, Mr Tanko, totally inappropriate for you to be talking here in the National Assembly about the fact that it has not been proven who it was, that it is not Minister Gorenak and that, until we prove it, the President of the National Assembly should correct the information he has given today. This seems really depressed to me, and of course I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u191	Mrs. Janja Klasinc, then Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u192	Of course, I will also vote against this request. I will vote against this because this marriage is bad – that is what all experts have said. I will vote against this because it is non-transparent, because it opens the door wide to the influence of policy in deciding on the property of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and allows only a handful of people who are currently in government to decide whether to sell or sell it. Most of all, I think the reason is in the last one. I am convinced that this is a well-planned sale of this property with promised good commissions, and this must be the reason for this panic that the coalition has served both extreme and dirty games, such as the suspicion of the theft of 394 referendum votes and the mockery of the votes and signatures of our party that is proposing this referendum. For this game of yours, which is not only undemocratic, but borders – not Ukraine, Belarus or anything else – on crime, you will have to take very, very seriously the heavy responsibility of your colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u193	Mrs. Renata Brunskole, then Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u194	Thank you very much. I'm not going to support a constitutional judgment. My will under both requirements for the referendum is clearly expressed and can be verified. The attached requirement for constitutional review shows that the coalition does not have the right arguments. It is the use of the procedure in the National Assembly and thus the reputation of the National Assembly is being honored. However, today's news and information on other trade unions' signatures actually make this a topic under point 2. Point 1 is this thing we can read about from the media. Of course, the coalition can complain about the content, not the procedure. Let me point out that the procedure in the National Assembly is chaired by the President of the National Assembly and the President of the National Assembly has found that our request for a referendum contains all the statutory conditions for a referendum. Our decision to sign the request is a last resort. The extreme action of the opposition when we truly see that there is no other way out. We want to keep the state property managed in one place transparent and still be responsible to the National Assembly, as well as to parliamentary supervision. This proposal of the Holding Act, which has been adopted, would not be the case. Therefore, I will not support the constitutional judgment and no one has anything to fear, because I think it is right for the referendum to be signed.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u195	Thank you. As my conduct on this request has also been mentioned, let me explain to my colleagues and colleagues, which I have also explained to the public only so far – that I have no reason to doubt that the signatures under this requirement are genuine, despite other indications and writing in the media. I am satisfied with the words of the leader of the Group and the Members. I said that on the day when there was a lot of talk in the media about the MP's disputed signature, the Member called me on the phone and personally assured me that her signature and also gave me a written statement on this, and that was quite enough for me. I would say once again, I think we must trust each other at this level so much that we are not basically for fraud. If other authorities find out, that's another thing. I guess that's not how we're gonna deal with each other. The next one has the word mag. Dejan Židan, then Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u196	Thank you, President, for your word. Even a greeting before the end of the day. I will not support today's decision, but I would like to point out that today's debate is about two affairs and one wrong data. I called the first affair an affair of missing signatures. 307 signed papers shall be taken against the Ministry of Minister Gorenak, Ministry of Gorenak shall send them back 271. Today’s debate has already shown what you will be looking for – you will be looking for a courier who has probably stopped somewhere and probably lost his list by mistake, and the rest of us will be looking for political responsibility. That's probably clear right now. The second affair is the affair of discrediting Members of Positive Slovenia. Yesterday you threatened them with criminals, today you threaten them with the Constitutional Court, there's only an army left. I hope you're aware of what you're doing. Third, why it is impossible to support your marriage. With every law you adopt, you reduce economic activity in this country. The Borut Pahor government, under extremely difficult conditions, would have left the economic growth 0.6%. At this point we're going to move to minus 2, minus 3, we're going to end up with your actions at minus 5. That's no way to get rid of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u197	Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music, then Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u198	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues. Today, there have been unconstitutional consequences that were revealed only after fortunately the unions had copies of their original signatures, which were filed here in the National Assembly or at the temple of democracy. The House of Democracy and the Ministry of the Interior, which is intended to protect the interests of citizens and citizens, has taken place here or there and the places of signatures that carried the will of citizens and citizens, workers and workers. Therefore – Let Pukšič laugh at all – but therefore, Mr President, if it turns out in the investigation that this has happened in the National Assembly, then I expect your resignation in the same second. However, if an objective responsibility is established that this is on the MNZ, then the same second the resignation of the Minister of Home Affairs. It's a precedent, a shamelessness over rudeness, an excess of all the excesses. The reputation of the National Assembly has already been well established. Economic themes are key and not the way to manage them. This is also confirmed today by the Standard & Poor's credit rating agency – that it is not an important form of governance, economic themes are important. You don't know how to do that, dear gentlemen. You attacked us today, you attacked us all week long – discredit, you put everything on our heads, in Positive Slovenia and in those three Members who signed the application for a referendum on a bad law that prevents transparent business and management of the state property of the Republic of Slovenia, the only property we have left. You don't have an opening balance, you don't have anything to use to set up a big company like the state holding company. Of course, I will vote against all this unnecessary judgment and burden of our Constitutional Court. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u199	Mr. Matjaž Han, then Mrs. Alenka Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I already told you this morning how I feel about the referendum. I will not support this request, because the coalition has enough voice, and the Constitutional Court must do what it has to do. I hope, however, that the high-ranking officials, both in the National Assembly and in the ministries, will not be able to resolve your high positions in this situation at the expense of employees, both in the National Assembly and in the Ministry of the Interior. It is also the responsibility of the one who makes the big policy. Now there's something else about holding. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been listening to the holding reform law for a month now, but when you read this law that I have in my hand, that talks about holding and when I read the assessments of the financial implications that the Ministry of Finance has written, you know what it says about these financial consequences? "The proposed law has no financial implications for the state budget and other public funds". But it is a reform law – I cannot propose it, so I suggest we reject it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u201	Mrs. Alenka Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u202	I have 13 billion reasons to say that the Slovenian State Holding Act is weak, has harmful consequences, so I will not vote or oppose the constitutional opinion for the referendum. I also find it absurd and unacceptable that the leader of the SDS Group, Mr Tanko, stumbles upon our signatures and we, Members and Members, are being sent to assess our own signatures. Meanwhile, the President of the National Assembly, Dr. Virant, and Dr. Gorenak, Minister of the Interior, cannot agree on how to actually introduce some basic office business called the pre-receivable record, that is something that virtually every rookie with an economic high school knows very well. It seems to me that this is an objective responsibility, but I would like to ask if there has also been a technical error in the TES6 referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u203	Thank you. More explanation for the voice? Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u204	Thank you. In fact, there is little absurd situation – last week, the big pump coalition announced the introduction of the Referendum Act and the Human Initiative, which required 5,000 certified signatures to open the referendum procedure. So it's about sharpening the conditions, reducing the space to express human will. But there was a fundamental argument that we should get credible signatures. Now, however, the duly signed signatures have been issued. That's a very interesting situation. In the National Assembly, we received a letter inviting us to try to prevent and try to agree that a referendum should not be held. Voting against the constitutionality requirement is also one of the possible steps for ending the story in such a way that a referendum should not be carried out. In doing so, I do not object to the right to call for a referendum, but the Constitution still gives Members the opportunity to do so. But what's interesting about all this is that some people don't want to hear that both sides have to work together to find a common way, not just one. Some think it's a great mercy if the coalition wants to talk to the opposition at all. I don't know, we listened to how some people suffered because they had to talk in the summer about how to improve the marriage. Yeah, isn't that our job? I cannot support such a requirement, which, by the way, is still poorly composed.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u205	Mr. Franz Pukšič, then Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u206	Thank you very much. I will support the proposal. For the first time, because it is essential for the country to stabilise public finances. Secondly, because governance of state assets has so far been very bad or catastrophic, in fact, many times at the border of crime. Thirdly, because if we do not accept this, the measures will be even worse. We will come so far that those on the verge of survival will fall far below that of more than half of Slovenian pensioners, who are below 600 euros in pension. Therefore, these measures are necessary. Colleagues and colleagues, do you remember the affair in Belgium when a pedophile Dutroux escaped from court? In four hours, three ministers from the government resigned irrevocably, if I recall correctly. Today, in view of what has happened, Mr President, and of course since I have one very bad experience myself, I would expect the Secretary-General to be suspended at this point. It cannot and must not excuse that the 15-year procedure is such. Perhaps these signatures, which were originally filed, were copied, and later received young, appended original signatures. That's also possible, but it's a matter of crime and crime, and it's a matter of prosecution of criminals. And one more thing, you talk about it – it is also a crime to fake – that we send your signatures, opposition ones, to review or review. When you were in the government, you sent criminals to the National Assembly and seized an office MP, a leader of the parliamentary group, a party president, Mr Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u207	Mr. Joseph Kavticnik, then Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I will not support this proposal, because, honourable coalition Members, you are full of words when you say that politics must withdraw from the economy while at the same time creating a holding that will be politically guided and supervised. Contentive reasons – today we do not even know how much the holding will cost. It was said and also recognized economist Kraljič said that he demanded an opening balance that he did not get. There's a lot of strangers, there's a lot of deception. As for the events that we are witnessing to them today — not sad — I am appalled at what is happening. Here we talk about this and give some message to people about who is the greatest thief here in the National Assembly — either those who have accepted these signatures, those who have given them further or those who have examined them. Who else will trust the National Assembly, but who else will hope in this country? I'm sorry. This is real to think about. I wouldn't laugh on the left or on the right. I would have suspended this meeting and really not voted today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u209	Mr. Jani Möderndorfer. Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u210	I cannot support this proposal for a simple reason, because in the last week there has been so much indignation about the procedure of filing the request for a referendum itself, about the request for a referendum itself, and so much mistrust – and then, as a lightning from the sky, there is news that no one has actually checked the procedure for collecting signatures for the referendum issue tabled by the group of signatories. So much reassurance, so much resentment, so much suspicion and mistrust, and now we're still going to constitutional review. What is most interesting is that we now call on all those who say that they trust Members and Members and believe in their signatures not to support this constitutional judgment, because in point 7 that is exactly what we are giving to the Constitutional Court again. Such a constitutional judgment is in stark contrast with what we speak out loud and with what we want to support. Those who say that also know. What is important is that this constitutional judgment simply cannot be supported, just because it is perceived to be harmful to the country, we have demonstrated in the debate that it has no particular impact on what you call reform. It's not a reform. It's just a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u211	Mr. Mirko Brulc, then Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u212	Your Honor! First, tell the Prime Minister in Laos to come home. I don't know what he's doing there when he discusses a world without genocide, maybe he's explaining the experience with eraseds or something. With arguments, the Social Democrats tried to convince the position that there were serious mistakes. What happened to the signatures today — is that the mini-fire of Reichstag? People in this country are scared. Pensioners, employees, unemployed – people are afraid. Justifiable because SDS is a party who already has experience in falsifying documents. How we will now trust the Minister of the Interior, whom you know how he has merged all the resources to have full authority. I'm afraid we won't get to the truth. True, the role of the National Assembly is recorded in this law, and it is also stated that the government decides on business secrecy. Our experience with the sale of the Slovenian steel industry is – today it is a business secret and people do not know what we sold to the Russians, what we survived and who put something in the pocket. That is why, of course, I will vote against this law. I think we're going down with this spiral. We want to sell everything. I'm just asking – who saw Hungarian registration cars at sea this year? Big, BMW and stuff. Poor people cannot because Hungary has sold everything – banks, economy, everything. That's where we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u213	Mr. Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will support the decision under which I have also signed, and on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I will inform our colleagues from Positive Slovenia, plus three, that we do not wish to deprive you of anything or prevent you of your democratic wishes. Your request for a referendum is legitimate, the referendum on the Slovenian State Holding Act is irrelevant – it will be a government referendum. We're talking about state property. What is it, people? Property? My colleague Jurš talked about how drasticly the property of the Triglav Insurance Company had fallen, once a tomato horse. Look, you make a mistake -- they come in and rob you of your property. Of course, if you're a criminal – and collegiately, I want to advise you not to hang out with criminals, because, "Tell me who you're hanging out with, and I'll tell you who you are." Speaking of property, ladies and gentlemen, the President, I have already spoken today in the debate – some have lost all their assets these days. I suggested and please do this – open the office tomorrow, give three of your co-workers to collect voluntary contributions by Martin's week. I suggested up to 5%. I could do more. Thank you, a generation colleague, Dr. Andrey, who will give up her entire salary. Let's do something, something concrete. Come on, President, do it tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. That was the most beautiful thing I've heard today, and I take this initiative with great pleasure. Mag. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's... it's just... it's
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u216	Dear Mr. President. I believe you've noticed that a member of your coalition brutally attacked your Secretary General of the National Assembly, Mrs. Mojco Prelešnik. I propose procedurally that, as you have protected yourself not many days ago at one of the meetings, you do the same in the case of your co-worker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u217	Thanks for the heads-up. As it is said, I stress and have already stressed in a public statement today that I trust all the actors in the National Assembly, all the co-workers who are in any way responsible for the business of documentary material. I also trust these people that no one has made any mistakes in this process. That's what I said. However, responsibility is likely to continue in the coming days, weeks, and months. Mrs. Maja Dimitrovski.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. I have noticed in today's media, quote: "Today's extraordinary session is obviously one of the most unusual in the history of the Slovenian Parliament." I agree. The government coalition wants to prevent the referendum with all its zeal, very clearly moving across the borders of democratic frameworks and even common sense. Because of your own limitations, you cannot restrict people because power is limited by law in democracy, but true democracy is also characterized by self-limitation of power. It is right to respect people's will and the referendum is the highest expression of the people's will. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u219	Thank you. We will vote on the proposal for a decision. More explanation, mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u220	Thank you very much, President. I can't get past what happened today either, and the story isn't over. I say that this government does not really choose the means to achieve its political objectives. You, the President, said there was a mistake. I say - no, that's not a mistake. It's an organized scam. Why? Because I just don't believe in coincidence. I'll even say that there has been the greatest public-discovered political fraud, President. By saying that the signatures were not enough, you stopped the referendum procedure. Without having on the table black on white that the arguments with which you stopped, prevent, human will, hold. Not a precedent, I say again – it is the greatest political fraud, the theft of people, the highest levels of democratic expression of human will. Why am I against a law that I claim is bad? Also because the law was written by those people who were already involved in the sale of property. The Court of Auditors found that these sales were more than controversial. Those today convince us that the SDH story will take place in a transparent manner. That is not true – it will take place under the carpet, without the supervision of the Court of Auditors, which has in the past identified these irregularities. I will therefore also vote against the decision you are proposing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u221	Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u222	The responsibility for what is happening today is certainly with the government. But it started when you were still in the opposition, respected colleagues and colleagues. Today, you are repeatedly referring to the ratings of one credit rating house, which speaks of the high risk of government capacity to design and implement structural reforms. Among these reforms, by the way, there is no Law on Slovenian State Holding. Who would believe you will carry out the reforms? I believe that these houses and people and everyone sitting here remember your "four times no." Reforms could be adopted and implemented today. That is why there is a huge, huge risk that this Government will not bring these reforms down. "Four times no!" Look, there's still your passwords on the website, and you weren't worried about Slovenia, you weren't worried about the citizens, you never mentioned the threesome, but everything was nice and right. Today, when we talk about a law that has no financial implications – this is based on the proposal of the law – Slovenia is falling apart. Even trade unions' signatures must be hidden or stolen as you wish. If because of what is happening to you today, this will not be due to irresponsible opposition, it will not be due to an unreasonable nation, but only because of an incompetent government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-06-SDZ6-Izredna-19.ana.u223	We vote on the proposal for a decision. Please check the voting devices. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 87 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 36. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 36.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. In accordance with the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, the request of the National Assembly will be forwarded to the Constitutional Court, which must decide by law within 30 days. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also the 19th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much. The meeting was closed on 6 November 2012 at 21.37.
