ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-16-SDZ6-Izredna-18.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a very fast meeting, an 18th extraordinary session, which I convened at the request of Members and Members. Today the following colleagues and colleagues cannot attend the meetings: Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič, Janja Klasinc, mag. Barbara Zgeiner Tavsh, mag. Melita Župevc, Iva Dimic, Borut Pahor, Mirko Brulc, Matevž Frangež, Dragutin Mate, Roman Jakič, Jožef Kavticnik, mag. Stanko Stepichnik, mag. Matthew Tonin, Roberto Battelli, mag. Diane Jedhan. The first is to set the agenda. You received your proposal on Friday 12 October 2012 with a reference. I have not received any proposals for enlargement and withdrawal, so we can decide on the agenda. Please set up the voting devices. We're voting on the agenda. There are 63 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] The agenda is set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY, IT'S A NOTE ON THE PEACE OF THE MENDER'S REPRESENTATIVE REFERRED TO IN THE FIRST PARAGRAPH 14. Member of the Law of Messengers. The Government forwarded the decision of 4 October 2012 to the National Assembly, which states that Ambassador Ljubo Žnidar was appointed State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. The Government's decision was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which, pursuant to Rule 36 of its Rules of Procedure, proposes to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Law on Members, the following decision be taken: Ten. 2012 notes that Member Ljubo Žnidar has been appointed State Secretary in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, and therefore, as from the date of notification of the National Assembly in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, cannot act as a Member as long as he serves as State Secretary. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission of this decision and ask the National Assembly to inform which candidate or candidate will be replaced by Mr Žnidar in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members of Parliament. On the basis of a notification from the State Election Commission, the Commission of Elections will draw up a report and propose to the National Assembly approval of the mandate of a new Member or a new Member. I would like to thank my former fellow Member, Mr Žnidar, for the work he has done, and I wish him much success in serving as Secretary of State. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 18th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you so much for coming. Thank you for your patience.
