ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 11th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened by the President of the National Assembly on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, Mrs Alenka Pavlič, Mrs Saša Kos, Mrs Sonja Ramšak, Mrs Romana Tomc, Mrs Iva Dimic, Mr Bojan Starman, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Matevž Frangež, Mr Borut Pahor, Mr Jožef Kavtičnik and Mr Roman Jakič. At the meeting, the president invited representatives of the government. Otherwise, there's no one at the moment. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 11th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday 23 April 2012, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received with reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 1. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda of the 11th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is an exploratory decision on a decision to be taken at the legal referendum on the social law, which was 25 years old. MARCH 2012 The total time for discussion is 20 minutes. On 16 April 2012, the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia published a report by the State Election Commission on the outcome of the vote and on the outcome of the legislative referendum on the Family Code, which was held on 25 March 2012. It follows from the letter of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia received on 20 April 2012 that no complaint was lodged against this report within the legal time limit and that the report became legally binding. Given that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 53b of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative within eight days of the legality of the State Election Commission report, has to announce the decision taken at the referendum, we sent you a decision on 20 April 2012 to announce the decision taken at the referendum. Here comes a presentation of the views of the members of the groups on the decision. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party has the floor. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-11.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! The report shows that 45.5% of voters and voters who participated in the referendum voted against 54.55% of voters and voters in the Family Code referendum. In the SDS Group, we are satisfied with the outcome. We are aware that we need a new family code, but in the debates and at the time of adoption, we have told him why we oppose it. While some solutions are good, some are even worse, or some areas have been poorly regulated by the family code, others are not, we are happy that the results of the referendum give us a new opportunity to adopt a better family code.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-11.ana.u3	Thank you. The text is given by the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Michael Prevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-11.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are pleased to take a decision to announce the outcome of the referendum because we have strongly opposed the Code. The Odyssey of the adoption of the Family Code is already subject to a number of mandates, and it is therefore appropriate that in the new draft, once again, only the content, procedures and provisions proposed by the section, which are also acceptable to the majority of the debaters, should be incorporated into the Code. In doing so, in the Slovenian People's Party, we refer to the content that governs marriage and family relations, and let everything else be resolved in other laws. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are pleased that the conviction has prevailed that legislation must treat marriage and family as a meaningfully connected concept. It is a family and must remain a source of life and builder of the future of our society, so it must be dealt with in law in accordance with this direction and in accordance with our Constitution. The rejected code did not provide incentives for marriage and for the creation of a family with common offspring. It was groundless to discuss the inequality of same-sex couples in the debates, since it was legally and in fact not the same basis in relations, i.e. for the ability to have a child together. Even if the family code is not enforced, we have a properly regulated marriage and family relationship in the existing law, which has been amended several times, lastly in 2007 with the introduction of children's rights in accordance with international rules. However, the rights of same-sex partners are duly regulated by the law on the registration of same-sex partnerships. In the Slovenian People's Party, we wrote in the programme or even in the coalition contract to defend the special guardian of children's rights, which can better and more independently protect children's rights. The measures that were recorded in the Code, such as the hearing of children without the presence of parents and the removal of children, were not appropriate, even inconsistent with the provisions of our Constitution. This would even endanger the rights of the children and the duties of the parents that I mentioned at the outset. We are therefore pleased in the parliamentary group that 54.55% of voters have rejected the code and have put the importance of marriage and family, fatherhood and motherhood at a defence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-11.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The new Slovenia delegation has the floor. Mr. Janez Vasle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-11.ana.u6	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president! Since the beginning, New Slovenia has opposed the Family Code, which has upset most citizens and citizens with some solutions. We are pleased that New Slovenia is so close to people that it has been able to listen to people's opinions on such important topics as the future of the family in our country and that we have also been able to hear them. In New Slovenia, we believe that the country must support the family, because the family is the fundamental value of society and in our work we advocate that the country give more support to the family. We believe that the best environment for raising a child is a family in which parents and mothers understand and respect each other. The marriage bond between husband and wife is a natural relationship that enables the birth of children and the creation of a family, and the state must also adopt such legislation that is in support of the family, not the one that degrades the family. Although the family code contained quite a few good solutions for which it would be good for us to put them into effect as soon as possible. The main reason that Nova Slovenija opposed the Family Code was the potential for introducing surrogate motherhood, artificial insemination of single women and adoption of children into same-sex partnerships. In Novi Slovenija we are pleased to have been able to protect the family, the basic cell of society, together with civil society, which is the wedding for the future of the nation. The outcome of the referendum is also an important commitment for New Slovenia and for the entire Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-11.ana.u7	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the basis of Article 53b of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, I note that the National Assembly took note of the following conclusion: The National Assembly declares that the legislative referendum on the Family Code, which was carried out on 25 March 2012 pursuant to the Decree of the National Assembly on the invitation to a legislative referendum on the Family Code, Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia, No 10/12, adopted the voter decision as found in the Report of the State Election Commission on the outcome of the vote and on the outcome of the legislative referendum on the Family Code published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No 28/12, of 16 April 2012, namely that the majority of voters who voted in force are against the implementation of the Family Code adopted by the National Assembly at its meeting on 16 June 2011. Thus, the decision taken at the legislative referendum on the Family Code was announced. I'm closing this agenda item. I also conclude the 11th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Nice to meet you.
