ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Good morning, good morning, good morning. I begin with the 20th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Mrs Saša Kos, mag. Melita Župevc, Dr. László Göncz. I welcome all those present once again! We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Labour Relations Act. We continue the general debate of Members and Members. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u2	Good morning, Madam Vice President! Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Labour law is certainly an important area affecting the competitiveness of the economy. That things were wrong in the existing law, we found out yesterday. And there's something else I'd like to add to that. I'm going to read one confession, part of one of the entrepreneurs' confessions. It goes like this: "If you own a single company and you run out of work, you can't go to the office of work, but you have to put the company in bankruptcy first and when the work comes back, open a new company." This is flexibility in Slovenian. With such legislation, it is no wonder that we are in trouble not to say anything else. Let's move on to specific comments on the law. I believe that it is necessary to regulate the arrangements under the concluded employment contracts in such a way that the contract of employment is an indefinite contract of employment. In fact, why tell people that they are not wanted in the company and that we will hire them for a certain period of time? All those who have ever been in the role of employers know that good workers are never at risk, so they must be contracted for an indefinite period of time and arranged, at the same time, simply, flexibly and as easily as possible, for the termination of a contract that will only take place in one or two cases: if the company does not have a job. And if he doesn't have a job, what would be the reason for them to be employed in the company? A company that has no work will not have enough income, sooner or later it will not be able to pay its wages – and we are in a vicious circle. We transferred elements of the social state to the company through existing legislation, which is wrong. The State should implement the elements of the social state and the company should carry out its activities. The termination of the employment relationship or contract is even more threatening. Today, there is virtually no firm in existing legislation capable of breaking the employment relationship or contract in such a way as to maintain it in the courtroom. What does that mean? Is everyone so stupid that they can't write it, or is there something wrong with the existing arrangement? It is therefore necessary to simplify the termination of the working relationship. If the company has no work, then it makes no sense that they are employed in the company. There are a lot of problems with cancellations as well as with the way in which they are cancelled. Cancellation period, if an undertaking is not employed or if the employee or employee is working poorly, be 30 days long. In 30 days, those who truly want to, and who are good, hardworking, capable, find a job. Any other solution actually means exhaustion of the company and also discomfort for the worker. In another matter, companies are in a bad position. In fact, if the employee quit, he's simply not at work. There is no case in Slovenia where any court would award compensation to the company because there was no one at work. This, however, can seriously damage businesses, as the work process and orders should be completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Dr. Gregor Virant has the floor. Get ready instead of Mrs. Eve Irgle, Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u4	Good morning, Vice President! Good morning, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I am very pleased to be able to devote a little attention today to the substantive issues, i.e. the problems facing this country, so that I am not just dealing with referendums, signatures, procedures and so on. That's right, let's say it's a more beautiful day. We are discussing the key problems of this country. One of the key problems is the reliable issue of competitiveness. Slovenia was relatively well placed on the global competitiveness scales there by 2008 – we were in about 30th city. On the World Economic Forum page 42, on the IMBV scale we were 31. So, our result, our situation was relatively solid. And then the competition started to drop dramatically. On these scales, we also fell for 20 cities. This is one of the key problems – because if the country is not competitive if the environment in which businesses operate is not competitive, then foreign investors do not come to the country, money does not come to the country, jobs do not open and the problem is very serious. In the area of competitiveness, we must do everything in our power. I must say that I congratulate Minister Visiak on his manner of work, on the method by which he undertook the drafting of this law. I am aware that, in the face of any change that is aligned with the social partners, this change will check what this change will mean in terms of competitiveness indicators. What change means – whether it lifts us up on the competitiveness scale or falls even lower. This is how politics, based on facts and evidence, must be done, and I am counting on you to do so with this law to the end. In this National Assembly, we say all the time that we must do something for the economy, that we must do something for economic growth. This is a key, probably the most important thing we can do for the economy and for economic growth – or one of the key. What we can do for the economy is to ensure a stable political environment, which also means that we are not constantly engaged in referendums and that not all projects are at risk and that it does not look like Slovenia is capable of doing anything and doing nothing from the outside. This framework also includes financial stability, sustainable public finances, balanced public finances and a flexible labour market. This is one of the key things we can do for the Slovenian economy. Those of you who wonder if we've done anything for the economy: Hic Rhodes, Hic Salta! There's an opportunity in this marriage. Why is the flexibility of the labour market for which we are so committed and why this reform makes sense? Flexibility of the labour market is needed because it allows, stimulates and encourages employment. If the labour market is hard and closed, then foreign investors do not come to Slovenia and do not open companies here, and domestic companies do not want to hire, they are afraid to hire. This labour market is one of the great reasons for unemployment in Slovenia. The more we open it, the more we make it flexible, the less unemployed we'll have. Here this correlation is crystal clear. I don't have any dilemma about that. When we decide how much we will open up the labour market or the labour market, how much we will flexible it, we think of young people. We're thinking about the first job seekers. We're thinking about those who grow up and can't find their first job. We work for them to a large extent. If we write it, do it, accept it as it should, we will allow it to be significantly easier for them to work — to find jobs. When we talk about forgiveness, about job failure, a lot of times there is a lot of family and demagogies. Look, no company, no employer cancels a job relationship out of pleasure, out of spite, out of some negative moves. When does the working relationship end? When is the contract of employment cancelled? When there is no work and then, of course, the employer, including the company, is not happy about it, or when a worker fails to achieve the expected results when working poorly. In these cases, we need to enable the employment relationship to be phased out in a quick and easy manner and that the employer is as low as possible. See today: the employer, for example, finds that some worker does not achieve the expected results, so that he is incompetent and the whole company knows it, even the employees know it. Everyone knows we have someone at the firm who doesn't do his job the way he should. Cancellation is a complicated bureaucratic procedure. When you cancel the work relationship – the cancellation period lasts up to 120 days – the employer has to watch for four months for someone who everyone in the company knows is a bad worker, not to do his job, and he has to have four months to pay. This is an absolute overburden. I must say that the law that was brought into first reading does not satisfy us fully in the Civil Gazette. There is a reliable step forward at certain points. It simplifies termination procedures, debirocratises them, relieves employers in these cases of justified cancellations. In some cases, however, it is, unfortunately, even a step back. In particular, I am referring to the limitation of fixed-term contracts with a quota, with an administrative quota. We strongly oppose that. The coalition knows us and knows that in this area we are certainly the most liberal of all coalition parties – because we are liberals. Last week we were also admitted to the European family of liberal and democratic parties, and now we will follow these liberal principles even more consistently, both in the field of the economy and in the field of human rights. In the context of this law, this means that we will be fully committed to liberal solutions, which means, above all, that we will absolutely oppose this bureaucratic-administrative restriction of employment for a certain period of time. Let there be some reasons why you can get a job for a certain period of time. Have the inspection and the courts consistently respect and sanction this if it is breached, but not that we work with bureaucratic restrictions on life force, because you have companies that rely most of their business on some seasonal or project business, and they can't hire anything but for a certain period of time. You know, there's a lot of talk about how big a problem employment is for a certain period of time. I agree. This segmentation of the labour market and this instability that some young people experience when they are bound by contracts for a certain period of time is problematic, but unfortunately, often the fixed-term contract is not an alternative to a fixed-term contract, but it is an alternative to unemployment. The employer will take someone away for a while, but if he has to be indeterminate, he won't take it. If a young person does, however, decide whether to take a contract for a certain period or to remain unemployed — how do you think he will decide? In further consideration, coordination with trade unions, we expect an even greater step towards flexibility, and I must make it very clear that in the Civil Gazette we will strongly support employers' positions because they are the ones who create jobs and who will have the most positive impact on the reduction of unemployment. I'll give you another idea, Minister – we've talked about this a lot. It would further burden employers in the event of a termination of their employment relationship, and perhaps this system, which you have now provided for in the basic text of the law, would translate into transitional provisions so that those who already have an indefinite contract would be insured in this way. For those who reenter the labour market who will conclude this contract in the future, the regime may be somewhat different. For those seeking a job today — especially young ones — do not shave their heads by getting their retirement in 20 years or by having a cancellation period in 20 years when someone cancels their employment contract. They're bleaching their heads with how to get a job today, and that's what this is about. It's the last one. Yesterday, before the National Assembly, we had one such, very nice and nothing unpleasant protest, a demonstration – young students appeared before the National Assembly, student organizations with shopping carts. We've spotted them. I don't think we were disturbed by our work. I received their representatives this afternoon and was reminded of one very important thing. In fact, if that is the case, Minister, you will say that this law is not included in the drafting and coordination process. I think it would be good and right for the representatives of student organisations and other youth representatives, as well as the social partners, trade unions and employers' organisations to be directly involved in coordination. Now, if this is not formally possible because they are not members of the Economic and Social Council, invite them as some observers, listen to their comments and try to take them as fully as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u6	Your Honor! Thank you very much, President of the National Assembly, for your words of support and also for your suggestions and criticism. First, let me start at the end, because it's easier. The student organisation of Slovenia is invited. In coordination with them, we have already conducted two substantive interviews, they have also made comments and proposals, and I am very sad that we will then get completely different information from the representatives of the student organisation, which does not match the truth. So today, nine o'clock ago, when I came from a meeting held by three ministers – the Minister of Higher Education, Science, Culture, Sport, Youth and the Minister of Finance and I, as Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs – with the representatives of the Student Organisation of Slovenia. It's been a third meeting. Before that, we sent them laws asking for a meeting. It was the first meeting – they gave their opinion. There was a second meeting – they also gave their opinion. Their key pain in the pension law is that we should pay contributions later also from the student work – which is the key requirement of the union party and, last but not least, the coalition contracts, because we said that we would burden all forms of work comparatively or evenly. When I listen to students a lot, I don't know if they forget what happened one day earlier or they don't want to say it. Today, too, something has been said at this meeting that does not hold and tangify our ministry, the Ministry of Finance: they said that we are abolishing tax reliefs on student work – because they are being halved by a proposal that is today and will probably be in parliamentary procedure these days. That's right. In 2008 – you started by falling ratings or not, the competitiveness indices of this country fell. True, after 2008, they fell drasticly, but not because of the labour law we are sitting for. Back then, labour legislation was the same as it was today. They fell for other reasons, especially because of the credit crunch, due to poor forecasts of economic growth, not least because of the poor economic situation – these were key reasons for the decline of competitiveness. It is true, however, that the reason for the low rating of Slovenia or the relatively low rating in general – all the years before 2008 – is this labour market. This is a problem in Slovenia that we are aware of and want to address. The ambition of this law is to deal with it, not to introduce new instruments of protection, but to introduce perception that employers are easier and bolder to employ. This is crucial – that they are encouraged – and that is why we are also implementing different instruments, some of which you mentioned. It is true that we measure the effects of this law and the labour market regulation law through the OECD methodology that is available to us. We would be very pleased if we were more familiar with the methodology of others, such as the World Economic Forum of the WEF, for example, and so on, but in these methodologies it is much more reliant on the survey and the very subjective assessment, which is more difficult to pass on into different measures or into a different matrix. However, the OECD case is relatively clear and that is why we are doing this. Against the end of the negotiations, we will also try to assess our compromise proposal on their part, because, you know, we can see their methodology slightly differently than they see their methodology. We may find it difficult to do the same because there are many times when the assessments are relative, subjective. However, according to the first information – because we have already presented the law to them, even in Paris – the assessment is very positive that this is a step in the right direction. We have put forward this proposal, which is now in Parliament. However, I agree with you that he also has some solutions, which are not particularly good for employers at this time. This is also true and you mentioned this – the quota system. We must be aware that the fixed-term contract in the Conventions of the International Organization is a rule, not an exception, and that the contract is an exception and not a rule, this is recorded. In Slovenia we have the matter formally relatively well settled, we have written paragraphs 57 and 58, where there are reasons for not being allowed for more than two years and so on. But what is practice? However, the practice is reversed that a fixed-term contract is a rule today and 90 per cent of all contracts are concluded for a certain period of time, and an indefinite-term contract is an exception. It's a practice. This means that the current regime is not in order or departs from the current legal order and causes side effects, particularly in young people, causing segmentation. This leads to the lack of access to normal jobs for young people, to those that need to be used as a rule, and to the fact that these contracts are only for those who have been in relatively safe services for decades, for example, in government, in state-owned enterprises, even in a whole set of relatively stable economic operators. I think this problem needs to be addressed and solved. As I understand your debate, you too want to address and solve this problem, but in quotas you see a bureaucratic and inappropriate solution. I agree with you on that. I believe that there are more alternatives and that we will probably be through negotiations – because employers also strongly oppose this, which has proved to be in social dialogue and workers are not immune to alternative proposals – in these quotas we will find proposals that will, on the one hand, discourage employment for a certain period of time when the employer has no argument to hire for a certain period of time. That's what we need to find. We need to find leverage to convince the employer that when there are really no objective reasons – you have listed them, say, seasonal work, project work and so on – when a fixed-term employment contract is misused because of a guardian or the safety of the employer, you can at any time forgive the worker, so that in these cases we can redirect the employer to work indefinitely. That's our goal. Of course, I also thank you for the proposal on how some solutions can also be compromised through these transitional periods, if this can only apply to new employees. I believe that this month we will also experience the response of employers to the alternative proposal we are preparing. Maybe I can introduce you to that. I think I've already ordered a solution in yesterday's discussion. This is the fact that there are no cancellations in the conclusion of fixed-term contracts today, while in the case of fixed-term contracts there are redundancies. If we destimulate or even these two institutes, as far as discharge is concerned, this is already a step in this direction. For workers who are employed for a certain period of time, the likelihood of losing their job or becoming unemployed is greater. Therefore, the contribution to unemployment insurance can also be increased. And with these instruments, we are in some way disstimulating the conclusion of fixed-term contracts for economic reasons, not bureaucratic ones. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Truda Cinderella.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u8	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! Competitiveness is the key issue that is necessary for an economy to function and, above all, for it to produce a sufficiently gross social product that ensures the normal functioning of the company. However, for competitiveness, as we have already identified several times in the National Assembly, it is necessary, firstly, to have adequate conditions for the functioning of businesses, favourable financial or tax legislation, appropriate infrastructure, school or educational system, sufficient investment in science and development, and what I think is also crucial, labour legislation, which is not called free of charge, is a small constitution. If we go back to existing labour relations legislation, we will probably all agree that no one is satisfied with this legislation, except perhaps a handful of those who abuse this legislation. Let's remember how many people have been tricked, without paying by employers, and not least how many businesses are facing problems when they're poor workers – we can't say they're mostly, but they are, they're wasting a lot of energy and time. Such workers interfere with the process or undermine the process, not only of the workers, but also of the wider community, as well as of the society as such, and are being dealt with needlessly because of such rigid legislation taking place too slowly. It has been said by Mr Virant that as few bureaucratic provisions as possible are required in legislation. I agree with that. That would be perfect. However, any provision in any law is essentially a bureaucratic provision. Every one. If we compare a family business, although too large, we will probably all agree that five members are likely to be sufficient to function well. Everyone there knows exactly what to do. No one will ask if he has to do anything else if he has to if one of the other associates, who are usually family members, cannot do so and so on. There's everybody there, there's solidarity, there's motivation and so on. Unfortunately, this is largely not the case in other companies, so today we have a law that contains, as we see in 227 articles. Covered package of legislation or articles. I am confident that it will be determined if this law is to be adopted, that another article may have to be added. This text, which we have before us, is a work material, because social dialogue is still under way and, in view of the experience we have, Minister Vizjak has so far been a negotiator, especially in his role as an interlocutor, listening to all the comments of the social partners, and with the appropriate solutions he has also tried to translate them into legislation – not only in this, but also in another. I believe his way of working here is the same, so sincere congratulations and commendations. I hope and believe that the social partners will be able to assess where they can insist on their demands and shores – that not everyone will be on their trenches, but that they will also draw closer. If that key issue, which is now so problematic for employers – if we call it a fixed-term quota – on the other hand, it must be realized that this is the biggest problem, especially for our young people, who will have to work for a certain period of time and also for many who have been employed for a certain period of years and years, and this is a huge problem for them. What does a fixed-term job mean? I hope that we are all aware here that this is an uncertainty, that families, where one of the partners is or most of the time, because they are young families and are both employed for a certain period of time, are difficult to decide for the child; that it is difficult to get credit; that they cannot equip their apartment or get to the apartment and also obstacles that prevent the development of that part of the population that is important to us. Here I see that there will be a need to find a way to make the work for a certain time really an exception to the rule. The Minister had previously indicated in his reply some possible solutions, variants. I am also of the opinion that this problem can begin to resolve itself if we are able to find appropriate solutions to ensure greater flexibility in employment. It means that if there is greater flexibility for those who will have to work indefinitely, it will be easier to forgive when the employer is forced to do so. I firmly believe that the employer will not seek employment for a certain period of time if he is able to achieve the same effect in another form. I am firmly convinced, and I know that every entrepreneur, every company, good worker will never forgive, because, after all, the worker is the one who ensures that the matter works. That's the key thing with everyone. I do not know a successful entrepreneur, a successful employer, who would forgive his people if he properly meets those expectations or the mission. If we go back to the fact now, or if someone has had the opportunity to talk to our people who are looking for work, there are more and more, abroad, whether it be Switzerland, Austria, whether there is work to be done there for an indefinite time, or there it insists on different ones, we can say the ratings that our labour law has. No, no, no. There are many jobs for an indefinite period that may last a month, two or three, but there is no problem with accepting such a job, as it is known that if the employer is no longer able to provide him with a job, he is already waiting for another job. Even in the case of some seasonal – not a few months, but let’s say it could be six months, a year, or if a big order comes — the employer will be happy to work for an indefinite period if the flexibility is ensured. I believe that everything will have to be done to ensure that this problem, which concerns our young people in particular – and this is also a problem for employers – is found in finding that common solution and that not every social partner here will stand on his own shore. Here, I think — and I think this law follows — that not every matter relating to the relationship between an employee and an employer should really be included in the legislation. In this way, freedom is also limited between the employer and the employee. I know cases where employers who work successfully give their employees significantly more than legislation imposes on them. However, in cases where the company is poorly standing, those rights can then also be met, it is in a situation of bankruptcy. Therefore, there should be ways to make it more flexible, if we call it, between the employer and the employee – that this should also be recorded in collective agreements. If we expect all these matters to be laid down by the Labour Relations Act, there is likely to be a need for more than one article. That's what this is all about. It will be even more bureaucratic and we will not achieve the goal that we have repeatedly wanted to pursue – reduce bureaucracy, reduce restriction – and then all efforts are in vain. That is why I hope, I also call on both trade unions and employers, that at this time we still have — time is not enough — they will really harmonise that we have this legislation at least in a certain segment comparable to our neighbouring European countries and that we will be able to achieve greater competitiveness, greater interest or, above all, greater interest in foreign investors to come to Slovenia. If they see that the quality of the workforce we have in Slovenia will be able to work without any difficulty, this will not represent bureaucratic obstacles in the event that the business system is in trouble, I am sure we will be able to regain economic growth and job creation very soon. This is an additional stone in these urgently needed measures and also in the laws now being drawn up by the Government, and we are the ones we will have to take. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u9	Thank you. The word has magic. Truda Cinderella and then Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. The current regulation of working relations in our country is such that employers create a lot of unnecessary administrative work, which needs to be changed. However, changes must also favour the preservation and creation of jobs. The reform of labour legislation must ensure good working conditions and conditions for the creation of new jobs, which are the only way to maintain and improve the general standard of living for all in the country in the long term. The legal arrangements for working relations should regulate the fundamental rights and obligations of workers and businesses and other organisations in mutual relations and lay down minimum standards for regulating working relationships in a way that minimises the effective functioning of businesses and other organisations. In order for a particular organisation to survive and achieve success in an open market economy, it must be effective and competitive on an international scale. We therefore need to ensure that the rules in the labour market are at least comparable to their competitors in developed countries or more competitive if we are ever to catch up to them or to overtake them. The rights of workers should be regulated in more detail in the event of a change of employer due to the transfer of undertakings or part of an undertaking, acquisition, merger or other legal business. This will reduce the risk of repeating the sad stories of workers who have lost their salaries, dismissals and other labour rights due to the overemployment of a straw company. The only way to maintain and improve the general standard of living for all in the country in the long term is by creating new jobs. And the bearer of tasks and the creation of new jobs is the economy, so we must allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u11	Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music. Then Mrs. Janja Klasinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u12	Dear President! The labour market or the working relationship, what we are talking about today, is getting smaller and smaller because there is a decrease in purchasing power on the market from day to day. Unless we ensure that employers, entrepreneurs, craftsmen and others have jobs that perform any services, work will result only in forgiveness and not in new employment. We talk so much about this segmentation. What, though, is wrong if we have contracts for an indefinite period of time or contracts? We can't just legislate a contract for an indefinite period of time. Just imagine one contractor, let's invent one craftsman, an entrepreneur, a builder, a smaller builder who has for three months, for five months, a job, and then nothing more, because he's insecure. We need to understand the situation in the square. If anywhere, then we have a lot of experience here – not just at the Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce and so on, everywhere. We've learned. I hope you will know that because it is the first reading, listening to those small craftsmen and entrepreneurs; that you will not be by this law or that we will not be by this law, because we will obviously – I wish to support it together with my voice or with the voices of the opposition – that this law will be kind and that it will allow and that it will indeed regulate this relationship between the employer and the worker. But if purchasing power continues to decline and as long as this financial crisis lasts, we cannot expect new jobs to just open up. The state must take a step forward in the direction of recovery, for example, of the construction sector for which we have allowed it to fall completely. We know that there is a multiplier there, that 2.4 jobs are in connected industries and so on. Maybe even more. With these guarantees and guarantees, the country should launch larger infrastructure projects that would then actually launch – the start of the economy! If we don't do this, this country is over. There is something very urgent — the synergy between the economic and academic spheres. If there is no cooperation here, then we will continue to educate. We're full of young people's mouths to keep them out of work, out of jobs, and no one goes there. We know specific faculties in certain places and locations where there is no cooperation between the economy at all. All of a sudden, we are producing a labour force that will receive a diploma tomorrow, and there will be no jobs for this area, because obviously we are not harmonised. There's a client somewhere, but there's a service provider somewhere. It's just a matter of pure natural law. If we could maybe go back a little bit, a few steps to think a little bit about what we're doing, we might be doing better than we're doing. The National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and all of us are obliged to make sure that administrative bureaucratic obstacles are simplified, that there are no complications – but that is not all. It's just one piece, a segment, that somehow this thing works easier across the street. If there are no conditions for new jobs, if the economy does not recover if there is no economic growth, there will be nothing. I feel that we are always dealing with some of the consequences in this country, but no one dares to shudder at the source of problems — where it trembles. That's where you have to shake, and you'll see that it'll definitely help. This money and this money we have and the new debt we are directing to investments, to investments that are the only solution for this country. I think you all understand that. If I don't understand what capacity I don't know, then you must understand. Everybody. We are, in fact, reminded of this by all the economists who have their attic set up somewhere. Come on, now's the time. The crisis is time and the country must invest in major infrastructure projects. If you don't do this, Minister, then we can also shut down the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, because we simply don't have anything to use it for, because everyone will be out of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u13	Minister Vizjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u14	Thank you very much. At that time, I would not have abolished our ministry, but the Ministry of the Economy. We're not gonna need him, we're gonna need him for social services. But I don't want this scenario, and you're absolutely right. You are absolutely right that nothing means the most flexible labour legislation if there are no jobs. If we don't have someone to hire, then legislation that allows us to work and forgive doesn't do us any good because we don't have a job. However, this legislation is not irrelevant if they are suggested or if they are jobs. We have many companies in Slovenia. This government is walking on the ground, and that's what's following. Many companies that employ, have markets, have increased production, work well and want to work. In these uncertain times, they are accompanied by uncertainty, mistrust, fear. Why? Because they don't know, even in these uncertain times, if these orders are to last forever, if they happen to kneel and so on. We are adopting this labour legislation in order to remove this uncertainty in employment for these same companies, so that we can clearly tell them that today, when they have orders, they should be employed. However, if they are left without orders and have business reasons for failure to work, they will be able to do so with dignity, speedily and effectively. If we succeed in companies, without bureaucratic complications and obstacles, to convince them of this, they will not be employed for a certain period of time. Why would I? When these companies have an order, even companies that use orders to boost their income and their business, they are constantly looking for new orders and growing, constantly growing. They have a constant need for labour; they do not have only temporary labour needs. For a certain period of time, they are employed only because they are accompanied by uncertainty and are afraid of what will happen when the work is gone. And they will have an impossible situation because they will not be able to get rid of excessive workers in a relatively efficient way. Labour law, as proposed, follows exactly this model. We have two types of job failures or a break-up of working relationships, whatever we call it. Let's call it quits. We have an individual and a collective. Collective cancellations are when there is a higher number of surpluses for business reasons. They are regulated by a Directive of the European Union. In fact, we have no great choice here because we are at the minimum of the directive and we are not uncompetitive at all, after all, even after the OECD comparison, we have done everything in collective cancellations and we are better than the Austrians – by the way, when Austria was mentioned earlier. We are more efficient here than the Austrians, we have a better index. In the meantime, we have a catastrophic index for individual cancellations. However, in the case of individual cancellations, we have a catastrophic index. Why? Because we have listed some bureaucratic obstacles that unnecessarily hinder the employer from adapting the labour force to the needs. That is why we have put an end to these bureaucratic obstacles, and I must say that we are not that far away in negotiations with the unions. I think that if we succeed, that's the only reason we're going to adopt this legislation. This is said to debirocratise ourselves in individual terminations to the extent that we allow employers to adapt more easily the number and labour force to the actual business needs they have. Why are economic societies? To make a profit. Every employer tries to have as much business as possible and as much profit as possible, doesn't that make sense? And to get as much employment as possible, it creates profit. There's no one here who'd consciously try not to have a job. It is therefore organically logical that if we allow the employer to adapt the workforce to his needs, then we will also allow him to grow. He wants to grow, every employer wants to grow. That's the basic point. On the one hand, I do not agree with the predecessor, so I also asked that jobs create consumption, perhaps also, but very to a small extent. Significantly more investments are made and therefore the budget you will have in this part or this month or within one month at the table is greatly enhanced by these investments. I am very pleased that the Prime Minister of the Government has promoted the signing of an important infrastructure project in Russia called the South Stream, which will bring about a new investment cycle. A billion euros is not so small when we talk about investments. But we also have other problems with these investments, let me tell you some amazing things. We have, for example, infrastructure projects that there is no doubt – in principle, agreement across the country – such as a hydroelectric power plant on the Lower Sava. The adoption of the State Spatial Plan for one power plant takes six years. Six years not to talk about similar complications in other infrastructure projects, roads and so on. If we do not do so and cut off the tail and the word to those who engage in these procedures under the cover of various environmental, natural protection and do not know any other protection organisations and block them all together, then we will not take a step forward in this area. We have to do this if we want jobs and if we want more employment in this country and if we want it to receive it at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Klasinc, then Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u16	Thank you. Let me start with one statement that I will read to you to be accurate: "If you want to increase flexibility, you must first take care of a system in which people will feel safe." Let's think about who could say that. To the great surprise of all of us, I will tell you that Mrs Annika Elias, President of the Swedish management organisation and not the union organisation, has said this. I have read this because I would like to point out the need for a link between the knowledge of the satisfaction of workers that can start with the employer. I therefore welcome the basic objectives of this law, but I fear that they can then be lost in the negotiations. I would like to refer to the thought of the President of the National Assembly, who said in his debate that the Civil List is on the employer's side. Positive Slovenia, myself personally, is not only on the employers' side, but we are also on the employees' side. If both of them are satisfied if both of them agree in social dialogue, this labour legislation can be successfully prepared and only so can Slovenia start to prosper. Personally, I think it is imperative for employers to facilitate their work in this flexibility. But, ladies and gentlemen, this legislation is adopted in a very complicated time – at a time when most of our businesses are bankrupt, when there are actually no jobs. If we make it easier to forgive, then I fear that we will have even worse problems with these people, who have already been budgeted to reduce their unemployment benefits and everything in this country. Slovenia is not a unique entity. I would like to point out that modern capitalism has completely forgotten the balance I am talking about. And as a result of this balance, these neoliberal currents are today's demonstrations across Europe. November 14th is the day of the demonstrations when European work rose. Ours is very considerate and will rise on Saturday so that they can work. We need to know that union demonstrations – Mr Minister, this is not funny – point out something: that Europe is a failure. It is unsuccessful and we can no longer compete, not because employers would have too little opportunity – they may have too little opportunity for flexibility in Slovenia and elsewhere – but because of the mentality that has won in this Europe, it is only necessary to take on workers, to lower their wages, to send them to the labour market, to reduce unemployment contributions, to reduce social transfers and so on and so on. We're going to have to let go at all levels. For 20 years, Slovenia has given, enabled – all governments, left and right – various layoffs to employers who paid slightly lower taxes on paid personal income, and so on. What did we find out? We found that in the end all this money went into the pockets of some individuals — not everywhere, of course — who were owners or managers in these companies, and then they destroyed and bankrupted these companies. That is why we are in this and that is why we must take into account the fact that the worker will be safe; that even if he loses his job, he will be able to survive while he waits for his work; that the employer will be satisfied when he is not pushed by the bad workers who cannot forgive him.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Dr. Gregor Virant asked for the replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u18	Thank you, Vice President, for taking the time to replace me. Make sure there's no misunderstanding. It was somewhat misunderstood that the Civil Code, in coordination between employers and trade unions, was put on the side of employers. Social dialogue is extremely important and there must be as many coordinated solutions as possible. What I have said is that, if the Minister really wants to flexible the labour market, he must listen very much to employers, in particular to the problematic provision on the administrative limitation of fixed-term contracts. The Minister has given me a satisfactory explanation that he is already thinking this way. Even now – the minister is thinking very quickly – he has already found possible solutions to encourage employment for an indefinite period of time and to undermine employment for a certain period of time. And that's good. We think that this administrative restriction, which is pointless, will disappear from the law, and that is good. See, employment for a certain period of time If we were to stick to the law, if the courts were to effectively and quickly judge in disputes, if the inspection were to work effectively, there would be no problems with employment for a certain period of time. [[...]] The law states very precisely when it is employed for a certain period of time, and these reasons given in the law are very logical and reasonable. If a company has a project that is known to last for one or two years, it is logical to hire for that time. If anyone has a seasonal job, it's only logical to get a job for that time. If it is a substitute, for example, for a coworker who is on maternity leave, it is logical to hire for a certain period of time. If these principles are respected, then there is no problem with fixed-term contracts. Activities are different, companies have different situations and we cannot now, with one administrative restriction in the law, prescribe the same proportion of fixed-term jobs for all companies. That's what bothered me in my marriage. I don't see the kind of antagonism that you might see between employers and employees at all, because in fact interests are in the same direction. Employers and their employees in companies, i.e. corporate management, want to have a good deal, so that they have a lot of orders, so that they don't run out of work, so that the work is done well so that the relations in the collective are good. It is the common desire of all and it is pointless to talk here as if it were two sides of the war. But it is, and I conclude with this, it is undeniable that those who create jobs are employers, i.e. employers.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, prepare Mrs. Polonca Komar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u20	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! When we talk about labour market reform and when there is a general debate, it is good to look around. Our government or our coalition has defined labour market reform as one of those that will help us, in cooperation with others, to stop these negative economic trends. A few days ago in Del, I read a good article by Mr Boštjan Videmsk on the situation in Greece, and I think I saw a similar contribution on CNN that morning about what is happening in Greece. I just want to read you a very short article, which says, "With the first memorandum we got Balkan wages, with the second we got the social system of Eastern Europe, with the third memoranda we became a third world country, with the fourth Greece becoming Asia in Europe." What do I mean by that? What is happening in Greece can be a great lesson for all. If we do not solve our problems ourselves, then what is happening to Greece will begin to happen to us. For every tranche that Greece is fighting for, and for every tranche that Slovenia could possibly fight for in the coming months and years, it would be worse and worse. That is why it is all the more important that the problems we are facing today be solved by ourselves without wavering our hands. For example, labour market reform and bank rehabilitation, which I define as two measures that will be crucial to halting negative economic trends – banks are threatened by a referendum of opposition and labour market reforms are threatened by trade unions. If I heard the Minister correctly yesterday, he said that if they failed to agree, he would even withdraw those two laws. I think it would be a very bad thing to withdraw these two laws, because everyone would lose a lot of money. This law that we are considering today – I think it is a win-win situation for everyone to gain, workers and employers in this matter. Frazes used in the labour market when it comes to flex security, flexicurity and so on, few people understand. Sometimes people ask me how it is possible to increase safety at the same time and to ensure greater flexibility for employers. I think this law offers some of these cases. I will specifically say how we would try to ensure greater safety for workers. One of the things that this law introduces is that it is possible to cancel the employment relationship in the event of non-payment of contributions. Let's roll the film back and we'll remember how many companies there are where they didn't pay the workers' contributions, but they couldn't do anything – that was the problem. The next such thing is that some dishonest, crafty businessmen create some straw companies that hire certain workers and then bankrupt this company. This law introduces the responsibility of the parent company for such circuits of the system in solidarity. There was a lot of talk about agency work, about this being a new form of slavery; this law limits it. I've listed at least three things that try to ensure greater worker safety. On the other hand, how can we make employers more flexible? It is certainly one of the things that this law introduces in order to be more flexible in setting work obligations. Remember, you certainly know the cases where a worker decides not to do so because it is not on his list of work obligations. And then there's arguing, there's trouble, and then there's evidence of a mobbing, and so on. Times are such that it is also necessary to be a little more flexible and adapt to work needs. It also facilitates forgiveness for false reasons and, above all, shorter notices. In each of these matters, I have listed only three examples of how to ensure greater worker safety and, on the other hand, how to encourage greater flexibility for employers. We all know that there is something wrong with our current labour market. So we try to solve it, we try to change it, but, as is typical of Slovenian custom, there are problems in the details and there is always something that some are not for. But it's okay. We have to keep trying. When we are talking about working relationships for an indefinite period of time, I would say that all these names come from other times. Today, times are changing so quickly that I ask you what kind of working relationship is for an indefinite period of time. Our people, our citizens, are more or less employed for an indefinite period of time, understand as eternal employment or "from then on, to retirement". What kind of job can do that to you? I practically don't know jobs like that. Perhaps they know them in the opposition when they wave their hand — they will say. I don't really know them that there are jobs in today's globalised world that I'd say you're hiring today, and you can be sure that you'll be in this job for the next 40 years. On the other hand, we have jobs for a certain period of time that have a time limit — that is understanding. I understand and I think that all jobs are in a certain way for a certain period of time and that we should go in this direction so that all jobs are for a certain period of time where there would not be a limited period of time. When business reasons arise when other things arise, the worker talks to the employer and tries to solve problems. It's an idealistic show, but at least that's what it's supposed to be. Earlier, colleague Gaspar Gaspar Misic had a discussion. He's a very dramatic debater. This time, however, I agree with his debate when he said we could have as much social as we would have a successful economy. And that's what I think was the right statement, and that's what it is. If the economy is not successful, if we do not have jobs to create with, then we will also have nothing to give for social services. Another thing that has arisen many times and is constantly being said about it is that this country should run the economy. This is often heard especially from opposition benches. We must all agree together that the times of socialism are over. When a company came – I will give an example of our stone Titan – and they ordered that from tomorrow on in this company there would be hundreds more jobs and there were more jobs, whether they needed them or not. These times are over. Those times are gone. When you talk about the government creating jobs in the way they were created at the time – now they can no longer be. When you talk about creating new jobs, the only option the country has is to create jobs in public administration. Is that what we want? Another thing that I think Mr Misic has rightly stressed is that jobs are created by investing in infrastructure and that the country can in some way be encouraged. Of course, we have to have money for that. You know what the times are, but despite the time ahead, the future budget promises a few more cohesion funds for these purposes. Mr Minister also said that a larger infrastructure facility, such as the South Stream, is on the way. Despite all these things, it is essential for new jobs to create good conditions in which our economy can function. In creating conditions, labour market reform is a key issue. One of the most important things. I really hope that the negotiators with the minister at the head, the unions, the employers and we here in Parliament will find so much wisdom to take a step forward. Although small, but it's essential that we move on.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u21	Mrs. Polonca Komar, then Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. No change in the labour market will be successful if its assumption is maintained for most of the employed things as they are now. Then that's not a change. So I ask you, my dear colleagues, what are we going to do about it? Successful companies have one boss. It's not a union. That's not the owner. This is the buyer who always decides to make the most competitive offer. The labour market reform envelopes presented in June promised to modernise labour legislation. The solutions proposed to the National Assembly are still a shadow of these ideas. We believe that the labour market should allow employers to adapt the number and structure of employees according to the business needs of the principle "easy hire, easy fire", with emphasis on "easy hire". The employer is satisfied when he can pay high wages and people are satisfied. We are in favour of social dialogue, and the bearer of job creation is only an economy. At least what the government has to do when preparing a proposal for a law governing working relations is to listen to the economy. And if this makes it clear that the proposed changes will not lead to further employment, it is better to reconsider more appropriate solutions. Remember – we are a coalition with a mission, we are an anti-crisis coalition, not because of cosmetic repairs, but because of the changes that are necessary, but mainly necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u23	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat and then Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In my debate, I would have touched on this issue for an indefinite period of time, although much has been said about it today. This is a job chain for a certain period of time, and such a way of employment is inappropriate especially when it is prolonged indefinitely, leaving the employee in uncertainty when he does not know how it will be done with his employment. A particular problem is that employers use such a contract method mainly to establish a working relationship with young people. This is a problem because young people have no perspective, they can't make up for themselves, they can't make a family, and "hotel mom" is all used too often in the late years of young people. Look, even if he has an indefinite contract, he can quickly lose his job and then he stays on the road again. I would like to draw attention to these problems when they take a contract for the purchase of housing, and then they can no longer pay off their assets, and you know that the banks are not waiting for them to act and thus lose their apartment. These allowances, social transfers are too small to be able to repay these annuities. I think that more attention should also be paid to working inspectors or inspectors, and that these services should be strengthened and verified as to how this contract or this law on working relationships in the area of a fixed-term contract is implemented. I believe that there is a need to prevent and do more in the field of control. That's what I'd like to comment on. Young people take every job because they need money, and they take a contract that repeats itself, and they are quiet because they have no other choice. From the point of view of safety of the working relationship, however, I would like to point out something else. I believe that employers, capital owners should do more or focus more on workers. I will remind you of the sentence I heard years ago – that was in the previous regulation – at some training, running a business, when an expert who taught explained the capitalist system – I think it was German – said: "A satisfied worker is a good worker." So I will conclude this part of my debate with this. Let us also remember this password when we are dealing with labour legislation. I would like to point out just one more thing, namely, to the agencies involved. Listen, I think and I think that I am right that they are unnecessary, that these agencies are abusers of workers and that these agencies should be abolished and given back that authority to employment institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u25	Mr. Ivan Hršak. After him, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all, especially Minister Visiak! I will also focus myself on one point, one moment, for my very important moment, on this contract for a certain time, although it has been quite said about it. It seems to me that this solution to the prescribed quota is basically good. Perhaps as a temporary solution, or as the minister has already indicated, this solution is looking in the direction of finding incentives for employers who will have a greater interest in signing the contract indefinitely than for a certain period of time. Why is this quota basically good? Because she's an employee guard for a certain period of time. What is really going on in practice? Employers sign a huge number of fixed-term contracts. However, not a certain period of one year, as we think, or six months, is in practice a maximum of three months, or even just one month, and these contracts, for example for one month, are also extended over a period of two or three years. It's a practice. In my environment, I see that many of these cases and then the employer, after two, three years, sometimes employs for an indefinite period of time and sometimes doesn't even hire him. What future do these young people who sign a fixed-term contract have? They can't get a loan, they can't buy real estate, they can't build a family. Such a way is in practice desperate or impossible for young people. I therefore support the efforts of Minister Visiak to try to regulate this problem in law in a way that will benefit young people and that employers of this institution will not abuse the contract for a certain period of time. Not all employers do this – to understand each other, I do not mean this, but there are many who abuse this treaty institute. I understand that in all cases the contract cannot be concluded for an indefinite period of time, as we have said, project tasks, seasonal work. In these cases, it is absolutely clear to me that this institute must be used. In other cases, however, this is not permissible. I see a big problem and, on the other hand, a solution to this problem in a better part of the inspection services. The work inspection is obviously not working well, and if it improves its work, this problem will also be resolved. If, in practice, we know how it is regulated if a month, three months, is extended in two or three years, we know that the law cannot prove that there is no need to sign a contract for indefinite periods – it means that a worker needs but simply does not want to sign contracts for indefinite periods and then solves these matters for a certain period of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u27	He asked the Minister for a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u28	Thank you very much, President. All I have to do is take some time to defend the work inspection as well. Look, we have in Slovenia, I don't know what, 10,000 employers. Even in Zasavje, you know you have a lot of them. But we have 40 people controlling it. We have 40 inspectors monitoring working relationships, and about as close as they can control safety and health at work. The entire work inspection accounted for about 100 people because there are still some administrations per unit and so on. In order for 40 inspectors to identify the legitimate reasons for concluding fixed-term contracts with, say, 10% of employers, the mission is impossible. You need to know that these same inspectors also identify employment in black, identify all other violations of labour law; pay payments, contributions, other redundancies, such as working time, regression, annual leave and so on. In short, we have relatively few inspections and can work 25 hours a day, but it will not be able to prevent abuse or breach of legislation. She can't because she can't be that much. That might prevent you from having thousands or 2,000 inspectors, for example, but I wonder who's going to pay for them. That is why this labour legislation is primarily aimed at trying to systematically disstimulate the employer for violations, but not to open the door to him for violations, and then to say that the inspector should find a violation — because he is not. See, today we have a legitimate reason, a legitimate reason for concluding fixed-term contracts for business reasons of increased workload. The increased volume of work, Your Honor, is impossible to determine. That's impossible. First, we need to know what the normal scope of work is. In these crisis situations, it is also impossible to identify this in many companies because it varies greatly. Now that one inspector will go – for the first time, he is not an expert in this field, because these are mainly lawyers on labour law – to go into the economic background of business. Even the question is whether he will have access to all documents, all employer contracts, which are business secrets. These are things that are simply not verifiable — that cannot be proved. The system is designed in such a way that it is broken by the current tape and by the current order, and rarely any case is found in a court of law and is generally solved in the interests of the worker. But these things are like a million or a billion of all cases. So it seems to me to point to inefficiency somewhat unfairly. I think that the big problem is that today the conclusion of fixed-term contracts is significantly more favourable for the employer and significantly less favourable for the worker than the conclusion of fixed-term contracts. In the appeal of this form, a solution must be sought.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u29	And Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. Replica, Mrs. Kotnik Poropat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u30	I would like to give the Minister one replica of his performance. I agree, and I know very well that our inspection services are too modest, and there is a problem. I think that if we are the rule of law — Article 2 of our Constitution — and if we are a social state — also Article 2 of our Constitution, then we must ensure that people are not exploited. I know the cases when the employer, because no one in this society controls him, exploits the workers, collects all the contributions to personal income, removes all the administrative prohibitions, and then does not do so – he put them all in his pocket and the workers are out of pay. He promised a month, a second month, a third month, they finally took advantage of the Labour Relations Act and informed him that they would no longer work, go to the inspection and wait in court. This gentleman shut down the company, set up another company, hired other people and worked with them the same way. He's got a third or fourth company today, and he's still doing the same thing. I would like to warn our government, our minister, that it is necessary to strengthen the services, that such scoundrels should be disabled, because this is the exploitation of man by man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u31	Thank you. In front of Mrs. Alenko Jeraj, the Minister has one more word. He's got the upper hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Ma'am, you mentioned one very eloquent case of infringement of workers' rights, not just that – it is a crime. The courts in this country are responsible for the prosecution and sanctioning of crime. I think that this problem has been identified, recorded, probably also announced to the competent institutes, and no inspector can do a second of faster court proceedings if the case is there. So I agree with you that in addition to economic crime, there are also such things when social security contributions are not paid — even on purpose — or whether the money is provided to someone in the worst form of crime.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u33	Mrs. Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u34	Thank you very much. When we talk about the Labour Relations Act, we know that we need to change some things. It has been said on whose side we will be – the law must be that we are on no one’s side. All those to whom we write the law must be relatively one, one, and the other, thus content. We need to take such measures and find optimal solutions for the economy, because nothing helps us in the Workers' Rights Act, but if it is not employed and cannot exercise rights at all. I believe that most entrepreneurs, fair and decent craftsmen, want to do well, want to have good workers, to have orders, to have a job, and to earn something. Normal. Of course, it is always one who is the boss, including one who has to find a job that needs to find niches, where they can sell or be successful and can do something. We can always run into a worker's right here. For example, when it's an order and it needs to be extended a little longer, the worker will say, "Look, I'm working eight hours and nothing else." Maybe that's why they'll lose their job, lose their client. The employer may decide not to work with such a worker who does not understand that this moment is a work and must all make an effort to keep this work in order to preserve this contracting authority, because perhaps the less favorable times are coming when the work will be gone. Most of them also understand that there is just so much and so much to give to the State that taxes must be paid. When we, the parliamentary group, walk in the field and visit various companies, successful companies, we are always told that they will work to understand that there is so much to be given to the country, only that we should not strangle them and burden them once with taxes and new bureaucracy – what they must give. And in fact, they don't know all the time if they're in a crime because they can't even follow all the laws that are passed, or maybe they've forgotten something. They don't want to be guilty, but sometimes that kind of thing happens. Right now, it's the Durs's case that finds out five years ago that they didn't pick something up. Durs practically doesn't know exactly what to pick up and how much, but people are expected to know and even separate it from themselves. Now he sends them notices, informs them. You know what this means for one entrepreneur who was convinced that all things are settled and he's trying not to get on the list of non-payers and the like, and then he gets one thing five years ago because some institution hasn't done its job or it's only happened today. We also talked about straw companies on many occasions on the Labour Committee. The workers informed us that they had been moved from one company to another, perhaps even to another, or they had received new contracts, while the owner sold what was valuable in the parent company. We have also promised on this committee that we will, or even adopt, such conclusions so that we can change this in order to do something about it. With the new Labour Relations Act, we are laying the groundwork for this. However, it also depends on the implementation of these articles. The protection of workers is certainly very important, but as it is said, it does not mean anything if the worker does not work, but is unemployed in the employment institution. We can write down in detail what all the rights of workers are, but our main goal must be that as many people as possible work, that we do not have the unemployed. We were able to monitor the non-payment of contributions on television every day and wondered how this could happen at all institutions, with all the information systems, with all the related databases in all possible institutions; why not all the alarms are triggered when there are no contributions paid anywhere for 3, 4, 6 months. This needs to be addressed immediately. Today, if you're going to talk, people say this started when we shut down SDK, when you couldn't pay your salary for next month, if it wasn't settled for the past month. Today, companies have multiple accounts with different banks, as is the case with them – where the money is, they put down the payment of contributions and all sorts of things. That must be the end of it. And if we extend inspection powers in the labour law, that's certainly a good thing. Here I agree with the minister that it is difficult to say that inspectors work poorly. Not everyone does bad work, sometimes they don't even have a chance, but things don't happen often. Look, we've been lagging behind in court all this time. If, in some cases, a claim can be lodged and dealt with every Monday, or in the case of a Balkan warrior, quite often, why things do not take place quickly, but the claim or hearing is filed within one month, then someone apologizes, it is described in three months and so on. So half a year or so has passed, while, as some of you have already said, the entrepreneur puts this company in bankruptcy, sets up a new company, second, third and so on, and the workers lose everything. I therefore support these solutions, which extend the powers of inspection, as well as sanctions for certain infringements which have not been foreseen by the law so far. Well, according to the new one, the employer who breaks the rules will be punished. Not only will he have to repay the worker, so he will answer the penalty, he will answer the penalty. Let me tell you a case. A friend of mine has a company, a whole bunch of debtors, and he's filed a complaint with the D.A. that someone doesn't pay him the job he did. He can prove that he did it for, say, 5,000 euros, he calls him several times to settle his accounts, and he says, "What can you do to me, I won't pay?" He filed a complaint with the D.A., and he filed six of them. All applications were rejected by prosecutors on the grounds that it was not a crime. Then we really can't get anywhere if things don't even come to trial. In short, such cases are a pile and such cases need to be resolved quickly, because we are wasting time and doing great damage if things are going too slowly. Is the quota good for more fixed-term contracts? Negotiations with trade unions are likely to crystallize some better solution, although in principle I consider this a good solution. In short, there is something to be done about it, because contracts for an indefinite period of time are earlier than the rule, unlike some time ago, and we should probably go back to that. I agree, however, that the economic environment, the market, all the changes that we are witnessing to them daily, weekly, monthly – is really a question of whether there are any jobs for an indefinite time, if they are still, probably not, such jobs as our parents may have had when they were from the first day of employment to the last one in the same service. We will probably never see this film again, so we need to adapt, live with these changes, and properly regulate legislation so that we can sanction things. I estimate that the Labour Relations Act is good. It is necessary to put all the ideas that employers have, all the ideas that unions have, and from this to find the most compromise solution that will at least roughly satisfy one side and the other, to make some real progress in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u35	Even the minister wanted a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Now that we are at the end of this round of debates, let me once again draw attention to the key purpose and key objective of the proposed labour market reform. The key objective is to ensure, on the one hand, the external and internal flexibility of employers in employment and, on the other hand, to maintain a decent level of worker safety. It is true that these two objectives are at the same time difficult to achieve, but can be achieved. Allow me to explain this in the end, although the solutions are not yet complete, they are not yet known, as the social dialogue around these solutions is still going on. First, it is necessary to stop at one of the basic challenges faced by all business operators and to respond to this challenge. The challenge is whether we agree and whether we will allow the employer to employ, as quickly as possible when he has a need for work and can reversely, when he loses his job, loses his job for one hundred or a thousand reasons, to adjust the volume of the labour force to the business process or the volume of the business. If we agree that we need to enable the employer or that we want to enable the employer to adapt the scope of the workforce to his business, then we probably will not have problems with the solutions proposed. But if we think we have to defend someone in the workplace even when they're not working for him, we'll have a bigger problem. In fact, it can then happen that we will push the employer into the abyss, which includes other workers whose work is still needed, and we have done more damage. The basic ambition of this law is to talk about external flexibility, to convince the employer that these solutions, which we are proposing, allow for the adjustment of the required number of people to operate or the extent to which they are operating. I think that these solutions are better — when we talk about an indefinite contract — than the chain of fixed-term contracts. For, by interfering with the notice of termination and with a substantial administrative burden, he did to the employer when he found out the business reasons and as a result he drew the consequences to the employees, they were easier and faster in the contract for an indefinite period than in the case of a fixed-term contract. I therefore believe that the proposed solution is an appropriate response to employers' needs as regards this flexibility. I believe that this is a key problem for employers today. There is no key problem for employers, I think – even though we simplify procedures there and eliminate certain administrative burdens – for reasons of fault or even reasons of incompetence. These are relatively small compared to the employer's need to employ and manage the workforce according to his business needs. In such times of crisis, I think this other challenge is more important and more priority, although we are not neglecting the first one. The solutions we are proposing in practice mean the following: if the employer is employed for an indefinite period of time and the employer after six years or after three years or after, I don't know, even one year finds that the work of this worker is unnecessary because he has lost his job – they have not already paid him for the unpaid work – and he had to reduce the production volume because he simply cannot survive otherwise. If he has fallen into a situation where he has to reduce the number of employees, he can do so relatively quickly. This problem must be detected one month before it wishes to cancel the working relationship with this worker. The worker shall be entitled to one-fifth of the monthly salary for each year. That's what you say if he works for three years — half of his salary. I don't think it's an excessive burden for anyone. No other serious bureaucratic obstacles have as their argument a business reason why it must actually reduce. That reason must also be upheld in court if the dispute is brought against it. With these measures, we do not only want flexibility, we want to encourage employers to work and we want to achieve more employment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u37	With this, we have exhausted the circle of reported debaters. Since there's still a desire to discuss it, I'm going to open the application. We have 39 minutes left. I'm opening the application. The minister can answer it anyway. You've got five minutes. First it's mag. Majda Potrat, followed by Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. It has been repeatedly pointed out in our opinions that the basis for amending the labour law was prepared before the end of the previous term, before the early elections. What I have already pointed out is that the attention of the Social Democrats has always been focused on the most vulnerable groups of people – these are the ones faced in the labour market with harsh forms of employment. When I read the current amendments to the labour law, it seems to me that somehow we have failed, or have not succeeded in finding some better solutions that would reduce the chastity field. Let us now put aside how you have reduced the possibilities for contract work and those forms of work that are linked to short or part-time work to occasional work; that the field of possible employment has been greatly reduced and we are witnessing complications, for example, on RTV and elsewhere, particularly in those activities that belong to self-employed people facing very large existential problems, and some activities are therefore at risk. When we add up the amendments to this legislation, either in the labour market regulation law or in the labour relationship law, some of the risks of unfair employment remain. It is not possible to completely exclude the possibility of chaining, although, Minister, you have talked about these things that you have reduced the possibility of chaining with proposals. It is simply that this segment of the labour market does not have its own advocate in any strong interest group and does not have the status in the negotiations, such as the one regularly invited to social bargaining, either within the Economic and Social Council or elsewhere. I can accept, Minister, your explanation that you've spoken to the Student Organization twice, but I'm reading something else. Who is willing to talk more seriously with the student organisation and students – when the student organisation opens up the issue of the quality of higher education and the Bologna reform, the minister does not find time for them. Having two conversations with them does not, however, mean reaching an agreement on what is going on in the field of employment. Yesterday you were talking about students having different views on how to edit student work than anyone else. Therefore, it is very interesting how students could be acquired in the previous mandate to oppose small work and how you have arranged the student work to some extent, but not so that this would be adequately resolved for those involved in various forms of part-time work or part-time work. Simply, once again, I conclude: I believe that you have proved to be a very skilled negotiator in the negotiations for those permanent social partners. Where there is no strong interest group that would be accepted as a representative interlocutor in social negotiations, you have not shown this and more should be done here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u39	Mr. Matevž Frangež, then Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u40	I am referring to the sharp criticism of this government, but I think it is right that criticism is credible only when we know that when something is good, it is also to commend and point out that. Minister, you have made an impression on me in this debate by sitting consistently in this Chamber throughout this debate and responding to comments, proposals, opinions by Members and Members. That's rare in this government, so all congratulations on holding it. Another time. I think that the debate has shown that we basically agree on many things. I myself can agree with the liberal views of the President of the National Assembly and his view on labour market regulation. On the other hand, I think that there is no difference between us in the approach that there is a need to make our labour market more flexible in this country, but that we may be different in terms of how to ensure greater security for people who lose their jobs. Unfortunately, the measures taken by this Government — those that have been adopted so far, as well as those forecasted by the 2013 budget — are such that this security is reduced and this is not good. I agree that it may be necessary to facilitate forgiveness in the case of business reasons, but I do not agree with the fact that when people lose their jobs, we do not provide effective assistance in ensuring that their social situation does not deteriorate radically on the day they lose their jobs. And that the time of this appropriate state aid, given the Slovenian situation when there are no available jobs, when the average time to wait for work, waiting for a new job opportunity is significantly longer than in comparable and neighbouring countries, is also appropriate and sufficient debt. If that is not the case, we will also re-energize the grey economy, which I fear they are also doing with some other measures of this government. As far as the public-private partnership is concerned, I absolutely agree with the positions previously presented by the mag. Majda Potter. I think it's time we modernise the public-private partnership. Young people are not adequately involved in this dialogue. Some other groups are also not adequately included. On the other hand, we have, for example, an older population that works almost double-protected through two representative partners within the social dialogue. These things need to be balanced if we are to reach a social dialogue that will meet the challenges of Slovenian society in the 21st century. The segmentation of the labour market is, I think, a crucial issue. I am fully aware that exacerbating rigidity on the other hand would also mean for employers to be forced back into even more unfair forms of employment, such as fixed-term employment. That is to say, unfair forms of employment, these are a key problem for the young generation, and I think that an approach that wishes to simplify legislation and, on the other hand, to make legal protection more effective is an approach that I can personally attach to it. Today, it often happens to us that workers are employed for an indefinite period of time after the law, while the rule of law and the effectiveness of the rule of law do not satisfy their rights. For this reason, I can also agree with one general orientation that would be good for the Slovenian state: the legal order must also be simplified. I'm sure when you don't have to be a doctor of science to substantiate the obvious violations of the law, these violations will be seen earlier. At that time, we may also have significantly less problems with labour inspection and inspection mechanisms, which are often ineffective in the field of labour law protection of workers' rights, either because of the lack of labour inspectors or on the other hand because we have complicated the whole process so that it is difficult to prove the infringement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u41	I also join in commending the Minister for the way in which he operates when he adopts, treats this and other laws, and I would like all ministers, like Vizjak, to be present at the debate from the beginning to the end and to answer these questions. I think it's a practice that's good and should be exemplary. I give my word to Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u42	Mr. Minister, you said we had companies that are hiring. I agree with that. But I ask you again – provide the results, tell us what our targets are. Today, we are also dealing with those who are working badly with people. This is about jobs. Most employers and most employees are honest. With those who are not honest, we must account for them in an exact manner. Actually, there's no job market. We are talking about the labour market and there is no market. We need to do something with other approaches, something needs to be done with traineeships, social entrepreneurship, and if we do not open jobs, then we are talking about any legislation for free. I fear that workers, not employers, are paying the main price here as well as this time. Workers tend to work and generally do well if it is work, if it is a good organisation and a good business. Some things were just said here; it would be better if there were no referendums, once about the Slovenian state holding company and the second time about the bad bank. If we, the opposition and the position, do not agree in these crisis situations on what we could do together, and if we cannot find a minimum on what we are talking about with the social partners, if we cannot do this together, then we are in trouble – as we are here, where we claim that our word has not been heard. Mr Minister, the Slovenian government is saying that we will encourage economic movements, the economy, the issue of people and that we are simplifying with jobs. We believe that new jobs should be opened with investments and not that the state is creating new jobs – we have never actually talked about this. If the government is talking about the start-up of the economy, if the government is talking about jobs – that's what we're talking about – then it's only right to say how we're going to open these jobs. And the inspectors, the inspection services. 40 inspectors are few - times 200 working days — 8,000 inspections per year. If we think of it as not all, there are thousands. And if we do a thousand work reviews a year and exact punishment for the offenders, then they'll remember us. Unfortunately, labour inspectors go mainly to regulated companies. They look at organized businesses and do what is right there instead of dealing with the real problem of those who do bad things to people. So it seems to me that the inspectors need to be given a very clear task: do what you have to do. Not that we can say we can't do anything, but then it's the D.A.'s office. So let us adopt legislation so that those who do so can be punished just as they will be fined. Speaking of socialism. Mr Tonin spoke quite a bit about what the opposition was and what was in socialism. Some things were extremely well done in socialism, and this is what workers remember, and often employers too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u43	And Mr. Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! I am pleased that we have found quite a consensus on the proposed amendment to the law on labour market changes. I have to say that I have worked in the economy for a long time and that the stiffness and all these rights that have accumulated around the work for an indefinite period have caused a lot of redundancies in businesses, a lot of bankruptcy and a lot of people have been left on the road. Therefore, in agreement, it bothers me that a social agreement has not yet been reached, particularly with trade unions, which should have been those who would have proposed these changes 25 or 30 years ago, because the harmfulness of such a way has largely brought us into the situation we are in. We are competitive because of this factor at, I don't know, 140th place in the world – because of the rigidity of employment. From my own practice, I say ten cases where practically a worker who had an indefinite contract could not be dismissed. As long as there was work and everything, there was no problem. When the crises began in 1990 and the current ones and how the market situation changed overnight, while the companies were obliged and had to retain the full number of people, it happened that the short-term problems in the market had led to the closure of the whole companies. It would have been much better if more people would have taken care of them. Similarly, it was done in this crisis, but in a very awkward way – it did not have the right effect already under the previous government. That's why I'm so much more happy that something's finally moving around here. I am sorry that this reform has brought too little for us to be radical. I don't understand why we don't agree, because we're all going to have ten times as much of this as we're going to lose. That we can't agree, for example, that lunch isn't on a regular basis. Here we shame the country, and everyone who sees this, who compares our competitive ability, will say so. I don't understand why we're defending this because it's completely illogical and pointless. Maybe one more thing. I said a little joke: how did we upgrade the contract for an indefinite period with all the obstacles, that it is impossible to break the work basically from somewhere we mistranslated it. Indeterminate time means that this time can end tomorrow. But for a certain period of time, you have to have an employee for that long. The thinking and guidelines of the new law are correct – in fact, the terms of the contract change for an indefinite period or that entrepreneurs themselves will see that it is smarter to hire. He himself would not have separated these two contracts for an indefinite period of time – he would have only one contract, where there would be a very large possibility that if there were problems of a company, he could forgive a man. But the country is the one to take care of. We have a mechanism to ensure that for a certain period of time it is taken care of when it receives compensation for the loss of work for a certain period, depending on that time. One part should be provided in some place – some cancellations. In Italy, for example, they have a special fund in which money is collected, and once it comes to forgiving a person, it also has one certainty that he can survive that period when he is looking for work. I hope this package is accepted. I hope that the proposals will become a little more entrenched and even more relaxed and as little interference as possible with the country in this area, because this will actually open up the possibility. This will lead to what Mr Meh has said that they will start to see us, that we are a competitive country, that we can offer quality, that we have knowledge, that we have everything, that we are also competitive. Investors will come and our products will be easier to sell, as they were told, in the world and everywhere. This is the basis that enables us and will, in itself, turn into opening up new jobs. Without that, we are placed in a situation where we are viewed as black sheep in Europe and the world, so unadaptable that they do not want to invest in us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Minister Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your encouraging words, as well as your positive assessments. I am pleased that the whole package of both pension reforms and labour market reforms in this Parliament has received positive responses from all the parliamentary groups. I must say that I have not observed any debater or parliamentary group who would have refused a solution at this stage. You leave the possibility to coordinate further and retain the right to make decisions at the end when the agreement with the social partners is also known. I think it's a good trip for these negotiations as well. It is also important for these negotiations that Members and Members support the follow-up and conclusion of this procedure at this time. I must say, Sir Meh, that in this government we are able to agree with the unions, and if it were not for your signature and signature of your colleagues from Positive Slovenia, the Holding Act would be enforced – because we have reached an agreement with the unions. And after that, Sir Meh, when you saw the agreement, among others, you blocked it politically. Even today, it is up to your signature whether this blockade remains or not, and therefore it is obvious to us that we are not able to agree with the unions on preventing referendums – this is a purely fiction, especially on your part, because you are doing so. That's one thing. Second thing. The unions and I have agreed on the starting points of the social agreement – now I answer to Mr Frangejo – in which we have written that it is not enough to have a social agreement. In such important matters, an intergenerational agreement is also needed – we involve young people in the debate and we want to hear them. We align ourselves with them, as with all of them, which does not mean that everything they stand for will eventually be established. Let me tell you one thing that they advocate in pension reform: that student work as a form of temporary and occasional work would not be subject to the calculation of social insurance contributions. We believe that it can be useful for students and students to have something from this work – especially when we are aware that this work is relatively large in this category – even at their age. They don't agree. In the meantime, trade unions stand for this, and even in the coalition contract we have written down that we want to get all forms of work on a common denominator and burden them with taxes and contributions. When we talk about this social dialogue, about this intergenerational negotiation, we run into very diametric performances and the acquisitions of different groups. Then it's the art of being able to find the path that everyone eventually devours and takes with criticism. But that is what we are trying to do. Dear Mrs. Potrata, it is not true that we are not reducing the scope of unfair forms of employment. ZUJF and I already went to college and we limited it because we put an extra burden on him. We have increased the concession fee for student work and therefore this work is somewhat or quite less, as students warn us. In the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, we have taken stock of the solution that you have already proposed to account for contributions from all, including other legal forms that have the nature of work, from copyright contracts, contracts which are governed by civil law, and so on. With this law, we also want to limit contracts for a certain period of time. So it's not true we're not dealing with this problem. We are very struggling and the results are already here, because there are fewer forms. Your Honor, it is not true that there is no labour market. There is a labour market, proof of this was in 2007 and 2008, when we had reverse phenomena like today. At that time, we had an increased supply of jobs and a lack of demand for them. That's when the employers were looking for people, and they couldn't find them. It's the other way around today. But it is true that, unfortunately, because of the crisis, we have a completely asymmetric market, a debalanced market. However, there is a market. With this solution, we also offer help to those who lose their jobs. In a better way than ever before, we want to ensure their security of employment. If they lose one job, they get another job as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u47	Thank you very much. There's no replica in time-sharing. Neither did the reported debaters, so we are concluding the debate. The proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration will be decided in the context of the vote tomorrow, 15 minutes after the end of the 6th item of the agenda or at 9 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. Agenda item — First draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inventory. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 10 Members and Members with first-signed Janko Webro requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Minister Šuštersič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u48	Dear Members and Members! Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Allow me to briefly present the main solutions to these changes of the law, which are complex and relate to several areas. It may be the most important introduction of the so-called flat-rate taxation of small entrepreneurs or persons engaged in activities. It is administrative and tax simplification, unloading. We are proposing a solution whereby those persons who carry out an activity and do not generate more than 50,000 revenue per year could voluntarily be included in the flat-rate taxation scheme, which means that they would be tax-recognizable to the expenditure determined on a standardised basis at 70% of the tax revenue. It is said that there would no longer be administration and thus the tax obligation established would be definitive. The revenue thus calculated on the basis of 70 % of the standardised recognised costs would be taxed at a Cedural Income Rate of 20 %, not more than the scale. Both aim at both administrative burdens and tax incentives for entrepreneurship, in particular small or initial entrepreneurship, which is a way of survival for many today, but can also be a basis for economic development. The other things that we are proposing are related to the regulation of certain systemic issues and then have their positive financial effects. The systemic issue that we are addressing is that the last element, the last component of income, is transferred from capital to a cedulatory tax, where all other incomes from capital are already. It's the income from renting the property. There is a new assumption, as with other capital incomes, of a 25 % rate of taxation, of 10 % of the recognised costs, by allowing real costs to be applied, which should encourage the collection and issuance of accounts and at least some measure to promote awareness or reduce the grey economy in this area. The third issue is that we are amending the provisions on taxation of agri-economic activities by establishing a condition for the mandatory management of agricultural holdings' books on the basis of an average income of two years – not one year as has been recorded so far. Some fluctuations that may occur by accident or by temporary means shall be taken into account. The start of such a treatment is moving from 2013 to 2014, in order to allow sufficient time to prepare all instructions, rules, including accounting, which must be prepared. The next thing we deal with is to reduce or eliminate or propose to reduce or eliminate certain specific reliefs that, in our view, are non-systematic and are difficult to defend in a situation where many other benefits and also disadvantages, including social benefits, are being reduced or already reduced by the economic crisis. It is two reliefs: a special personal relief for students or a student's work, which we propose to halve, and a special personal relief for cross-border migrant workers, which we propose to abolish. This, in terms of increasing the uniformity of the system, the neutrality of the tax regime and the same or more equal or less unequal treatment of the different incomes, depending on where they come from, or according to the resident status, or what are the reasons now in the law to separate these tax treatments. We regulate, disseminate basics, exempts for volunteering, regulate the area of capital relief in asset leasing, in particular for infrastructure companies, this is relevant. The combined effect of what I have listed is about 23 million and a half more revenue in the budget, even with what we have already introduced in the Public Finance Balance Act; 50% of the provisional rate of income, a 25 % increase in the VAT rate. This is then about 60 million financial impact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Matevž Frangež, Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u50	Respected and respected! We have proposed a general debate on the bill's proposal because we believe that the individual solutions of the Income Bill are not well-intentioned and may be a step backwards. First, on the abolition of the special relief for cross-border migrants. This issue has been raised over the years by the Civil Initiative of Apache, which, in fact, is the only institutionalised form of workers who have been double-taxed due to their employment in Austria and permanent residence in Slovenia. They paid their income tax for their work in Austria and were also taxed in Slovenia. After years of their efforts, Minister Bajuk has already initiated some activities to address this problem, and finally the government of Borut Pahor in 2010, when it introduced this special relief. We can agree that regulation is somewhat extra-systematic, but it is necessary not to burden people across borders in view of their obligation to tax already in the Republic of Austria. We are afraid that the simple result will be that their formal permanent residence will be adapted to their place of work, thus witnessing the outflow of tax residents and thus reducing tax revenues also from other types of taxation – not least the part that is not covered by general tax relief. It is worth noting that this arrangement is particularly important for those of our citizens and citizens working in the Republic of Austria who receive lower incomes, such as Austria's minimum wage, and their taxation in the Republic of Slovenia would increase by several thousand euros in case of exemption from special tax relief. In Social Democracy, we believe that the abolition of this relief is a mistake because it strongly taxes labour migrants and tax policy to expel Slovenian citizens to neighbouring Austria. We have serious concerns about the proposal for a cedular taxation of rental income, not because of the cedularity itself, but because of the lack of adequate progressiveity of these revenues. Therefore, instead of progressive taxation, it is proposed that income tax should be cedular and that the government relieves the richest tenants who provide more housing. At the same time, by reducing the standard costs from 40% to 10%, all other tenants are taxed to a large extent, which means that this results in a significant increase in the taxation of rental apartments. In this way, the Government promotes the placing of rental apartments in black within the grey economy and the encouragement of official rentals. This hinders the development of a rental housing market in Slovenia. We know that the ownership structure of dwellings in Slovenia is such that it in itself inhibits the development of the rental market. We have 94% equity, 4% social and 3% market rent. The structure of the market is therefore such that, due to the lack of supply, it does not provide an appropriate mechanism for the creation of a market price for rents and thus the inaccessibility of rent solutions, which has often – at least in the years leading up to the crisis – not paid in comparison to the alternative, the ownership of the housing problem. In this respect, Slovenia is significantly different from the countries in which we normally want to follow suit and have a level of ownership somewhere at a level of good 50%. A specific way of privatising dwellings in Slovenia has led to this imbalance, which, on the other hand, – from the perspective of new generations who do not have access to longer-term sources of financing – makes it difficult to obtain housing credit – prevent another alternative, which is an appropriate and more favourable lease regime. Developed countries to promote the rent market allow exemption from rent for a longer period of renting. In Slovenia, however, as always, the government is promoting black and black leases. Such a blockage of the rental market has negative economic consequences due to the restriction of labour mobility, but not least because of the decline in the availability of housing and, in particular, the first regulation of the housing problem. In Social Democracy, we will therefore oppose this law, which burdens the richer owners of apartments – those who own more apartments – and, compared to landlords who rent a separate apartment, part of the property and so on, significantly discourages such rent. Based on the information that we have a number of double - house houses with only one elderly person, this is a step backwards. However, these types of real estate, with the promotion of the rental market, represent an important potential for young people to be able to solve the first housing issue properly and more favourably. On the basis of the existing legislation, the rental income was taxed on the principle of tax fairness, which means, according to the ability to pay the tax. The government is now de facto introducing a uniform tax rate for such a lease. While we do not oppose cedular taxation in Social Democracy, we must stress that this should be fermented with appropriate progressiveity, as in Finland, for example, where rents were taxed as tax revenue, but with three tax classes on a progressive scale. We believe that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration and we call on the Ministry of Finance to reconsider these solutions and send more appropriate solutions to both issues before the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code, Mr. Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice hello to you all! The Civil Code will support the amendment of the Income Act. This change is intended to bring about improved conditions for the operation of natural persons who generate their income by some activity and live in this way. I think that the law is a significant improvement in the light of the law in force so far, as it represents a much higher percentage of the amount of expenditure generated; rather, it was valid that the expenditure was recognised 25% of the turnover, which now provides for a 70 % recognition of all expenditure, flat-rate recognition. The threshold for those who can benefit from this flat-rate or tax treatment also increases to EUR 50,000. Thus, the number of those who choose to do so is expected to increase significantly. Personally, I think that this whole income may be the wrong choice; it would be better to look for another economic category. This will be interesting for all those who have clean services or something like that, but otherwise the whole income and the recognised costs are not fairly regulated because the activities can be different; one has a very large cost structure and a small new value, and one has largely a new value and very little cost. This will result in a certain inequality. But since everyone has the option of deciding whether to do so, he will decide. I think it would be wiser and in line with what we have already talked about and proposed some form of flat-rate taxation, and thus in some way try to ensure simplification of business. This should go so far as to ensure that those who choose to do so do not have to keep any books, which would mean great costs to many. It might be useful to consider raising the rate where you do not have a exempt payment of a traffic tax or do not charge it with EUR 25 000 — it seems to me that now there are EUR 50,000 — which would in fact allow all those who would decide on such a way of dealing with and taking into account the standard costs, identifying the result and determining the tax, to direct the activities of such an entrepreneur exclusively to business activities, rather than to manage books and various calculations. This could only be for his purposes and in his own way. We think this change is very useful. It may need to be complemented in these two directions, found a fairer way to address these recognised costs in full revenue and determine the basis of the total revenue by activity in a different way or to take something else as a basis. In this way, more people would be interested in introducing a standardised cost levy, which is also the objective. The aim is also to simplify business for entrepreneurs, to know in advance what their tax expenses are; to realize that if they produce a better result, they will be left with them personally, not to pay consultants again, how much more income they will hide somewhere. That's how they'll get it in advance. I think that this is a very positive change, which will need to be upgraded a little bit more and will be a step towards improving our management conditions. Such steps take very slowly – even if they marginally improve the conditions for the management of small entrepreneurs, they are very important. If we add to this some other changes that have already been adopted, such as greater investment reliefs – these are many. We often talk about small entrepreneurs and we do not realize that this is a very large number of people, we are talking about 88,000 natural persons only from this area that are engaged in entrepreneurship. This is a big deal in total, and it means a lot to the economy. Many of these entrepreneurs are service providers, and many also live in connection with larger economic systems. All of this affects business, and this change, when observed, will bring greater will, greater momentum and more people will decide to find their own employment and their own income. In this way they will also find the tax and thus the opportunity that has now been given to them by this law. They'll be able to calculate what they're worth and how much they'll actually have in their accounts after the end of their business year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Janez Ribič, Slovenian Human Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u54	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us one of the laws of the government package, whose main objective is the additional administrative burden of small business in meeting their financial obligations. A major change is to facilitate the entry into the tax base system on the basis of standardised expenditure and to set a higher limit on operating revenue, which is set as a condition for entry into the system of EUR 50 000. If I stop at this point right now. According to the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, such a threshold is too low. Especially in the case of independent entrepreneurs, it is virtually 42 000 to 50 000, which could be said to be more in line with inflation than a major change. This is much more current in smaller companies, where a higher limit would come to light, but this is no longer the subject of this law. According to the Ministry, this limit covers 68 per cent of all independent entrepreneurs, but the question is whether this is really the most potential for further development, i.e. for the transition to a multi-employee legal entity, or whether this measure is the best way to promote activities that already have low recognised costs, most of the various complementary activities, advice, lectures, design and so on. The fact is that in the instant that the entrepreneur expands his activity a little bit more, he may employ an additional person, he increases the amount of income, he will already relatively quickly exceed the threshold for such taxation. All low margin activities will simply remain in the existing regime due to high input costs. It is true that the amount of standardised expenditure increases to 70% of the tax revenue recognised and that income determination is introduced in accordance with the principle of accrued realization. Although we could not convince the Minister during the negotiations in the Slovenian People's Party that the coalition would try a higher level of total income to enter this system of taxation, we will hold it to the floor. He promised that within six months of the entry into force of the law, he would also present its effects publicly. Thus, we can see from the data, especially how many entrepreneurs have decided to enter the system, whether this law is effective enough or whether further improvements are needed. But there is something that needs to be highlighted. The main purpose of this legislation is not in the additional tax advantages, as the financial situation makes them increasingly difficult to afford. The aim is to get as many micro-entrepreneurs as possible into a simplified system of taxation, so this should be much more encouraged. We relieve entrepreneurs of unnecessary administrations, large-scale accounting services, dealing with tax regulations and the like. If we do not attract a more specific number of entrepreneurs into the system, then the purpose of the law will not be achieved, and from this point of view also our concerns about the low income limit. But, as we say, time will tell if we were right. The law provides for a number of other changes. This limits the use of losses from past tax periods to 50% of the tax base of the tax year and allocates student relief. In this place, the first plans were a complete abolition, but despite the crisis we decided in the coalition to halve the relief. Thus, the work of the students will still be possible or will have a special tax treatment, but not to the extent that it has so far been possible. Changes are also made in the issuance of immovable property outside the performance of activities which will be taxed at a fixed rate of 25 % and no more than the income scale. In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group, this simplifies the real estate system and also facilitates control. For agricultural activities we are delaying the transition to mandatory accounting for 2014, as the system for keeping records is not yet ready. We're not solving the problem here either, we're just moving it to the future. However, this has given us time to regulate income legislation more favourable to agricultural activity in the following year. The biggest problem that we have detected in the Slovenian People's Party's Group is the immediate abolition of the relief for residents, who are also cross-border labour migrants. The fact is that this is a very complex problem that has practically been solved for almost six years, and today, with the proposed measure, we are all back to square one. This is not the right way, and in the Slovenian People's Party we expect this problem, which is also due to the non-implementation of international double taxation conventions, to be resolved somewhat more systematically and in cooperation with those concerned. About 12 thousand people, according to some estimates of work in neighbouring countries, even though they live in Slovenia. Most of them thus solve their social problem and thus the employment picture of our country. Many of them compete in the open labour market of neighbouring countries, in particular with a willingness to work for low pay. So we're not talking about some fabulous wages across the border. The immediate abolition will drive them either into the grey economy or the evasion of taxes or bring them back to the scope of the State's Employment and Social Transfer Office. We certainly do not claim that the current special relief they have is a systemic solution. It was accepted as a temporary solution. However, there is a need to find a different path and try to implement international agreements to avoid double taxation. This is no longer a problem of working migrants abroad, it is a problem of the ministry, government and state, and we cannot behave machetely here. The projected financial impact, €2 million, can quickly turn in the opposite direction and can ultimately lead to even a negative net impact in terms of the overall budget, in particular in terms of reducing consumption, higher social transfers, particularly the worst, can also lead to emigration from the country. That's not what we want. With some different solutions, including through the cooperation of tax administrations, the tax burden of these workers could be considerably more evenly distributed and significantly more taxed than the current proposal would have provided for in the treasury. We expect further coordination at this point. As a whole, the new Income Act will have a positive impact on the business environment mainly in the work where we administratively relieve entrepreneurs. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will try to coordinate the issues that have remained open during the parliamentary hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs. Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u56	What a lovely greeting to all present! We have yet another proposal for a tax reform law. This is a proposal for a new note on income. This is a proposal from which the government promises higher budgetary revenues, and for the economy itself it is an incentive to introduce flat-rate taxation for micro-enterprises and independent entrepreneurs. Thus, flat-rate taxation for independent entrepreneurs will apply to those with up to 50,000 Euros of annual income. When determining the tax base on the income of natural persons operating the activity, the amount of standardised expenditure shall be raised to 70% of the tax revenue recognised. The identification of revenue in accordance with the principle of accrued realisation and the cedual taxation of taxable persons who decide to determine their tax base from the activities carried out using standardised expenditure shall be introduced. The tax liability will be charged using a proportional tax rate of 20 per cent and the possibility of applying the actual costs of social security contributions is eliminated. More income on income is expected by the applicant from halving the special allowance for student work, abolishing the relief for cross-border migrant workers and introducing a VAT on rental income. In the case of renting taxes, 10 % of the standard cost will be recognised and 25 % of the tax will be applied to the income thus established. In the meantime, these revenues were now subject to a step-by-step progressive tax scale. The landlords will also be able to apply actual costs. With regard to the treatment of the income of volunteers, it is laid down that the income of volunteers is taxed as a category of other incomes, which should encourage the social-benefit activities of individuals who, through their knowledge and experience, contribute to improving the quality of life of individuals and social groups and to the development of a solidarity, human and equal society. The calculation of the credit ratings for the use of service cars will be followed by a new consideration of value added tax. Revenue from Slovenian investment funds will be taxed regardless of whether it is established and managed by a company for operation from Slovenia or any other European Union country, thus eliminating the inequality between funds. With regard to income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities, however, a different method of identification is laid down, the fulfilment of the income price for the compulsory transition of farms to a tax base system based on actual revenues and standardised expenditure. The criteria for total annual income are replaced by the criteria for the average total income of two consecutive, previous tax years. In doing so, larger farms will not have to go into accounting management until 2014 and not until next year. The DeSUS Group considers the proposal to be appropriate for further consideration. Nevertheless, there are certain concerns about the solutions presented by the proposal for a novel. For example, we are concerned that the provision of flat-rate taxation, which is an optional decision, will be of particular interest to those businesses and entrepreneurs with a small volume of business which do not intend to expand and create greater profits. In particular, it will benefit only those undertakings and entrepreneurs that have minimum operating costs which do not have the costs of purchasing basic funds, investing in research and development and labour costs. These are mainly companies and entrepreneurs offering intellectual services. The fact is that the impact of the crisis was first demonstrated in activities related to the production of specific products, such as the automotive industry, the production of various appliances and in transport. Later, the crisis widened and affected craft, micro and small enterprises in the field of construction and the construction of related activities. It reached its peak in recent years due to the bankruptcy of major construction companies, whose subcontractors were precisely these crafts and small companies. The carrying out of these activities, even if they are carried out in micro and small enterprises and do not reach the proposed level of revenue for flat-rate taxation, is almost necessarily linked to higher operating costs than the projected limit of standardised costs. Therefore, it may be possible that these entrepreneurs or such undertakings will not decide on the flat-rate tax offered and therefore the administrative burden will not be taken into account. At the same time, we note the potential danger that businesses and entrepreneurs will further reduce labour costs by entering the flat-rate taxation system, thus paying employees. In the DeSUS Group, changes to natural persons and the introduction of flat-rate taxation for legal persons are expected to contribute significantly to higher economic growth, to promoting investment in research and development, to promoting job creation and thus employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Members of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, Honourable Fellows and Fellows, Honourable Minister with Fellow Workers! The Slovenian company is in a position to face an economic crisis, a fall in gross domestic product and public financial deficits. Such a situation requires appropriate measures to promote the economy, to reduce budgetary expenditure, and at the same time to provide additional revenue to the state budget. All these objectives are now being pursued by the new legislation on income. In New Slovenia we support all legal solutions that help to promote economic activity and balance public finances. We are aware that the mere adoption of new legislation will have no real impact unless we ensure consistent and effective implementation at the same time, for which state authorities and supervisory institutions are responsible. An important novelty brought by the amendment of the Income Act in connection with the proposal for a new Law on Taxation from the Income of Legal Persons is the new regime for flat-rate taxation of taxpayers. Individuals and companies that generate less than €50 000 per year will have the opportunity to enter this system. Newly, they will not have to document actual costs, but will be recognised as a standard cost of 70% of income, and the difference will be treated as their income, from which the taxpayer will pay the tax liability, at a rate of 20% for natural persons engaged and at a level of 18% for legal persons for 2012. In the coming years, this rate of taxation for legal persons will continue to decrease until 2015. The key advantages of flat-rate taxation from the point of view of the taxpayer are: simplified identification of the tax base, elimination of the obligation to manage the business books and the compilation of the annual report, and the tax obligation will be predictable in advance. From the point of view of the country, flat-rate taxation means: firstly, easier control and disposal of employees and tax administrations within the framework of public administration; secondly, an increase in budgetary revenues from taxes collected; thirdly, a reduction in the volume of the grey economy. In this way, one of the important commitments under the Coalition Treaty is realised. We expect that a large proportion of taxpayers, independent entrepreneurs and small and micro-enterprises will be included in the flat-rate taxation scheme. Another important novelty of the new Income Act is the novelty in the way in which income is taxed from renting assets. Cedular taxation of these incomes is introduced in order to stimulate the real estate market. It is expected that owners of unoccupied property will rent. Indirectly, this new law will encourage the owners of these properties to make voluntary forecasts of income from this property. In New Slovenia, we expect that the competent tax authorities and inspection services in this area will, with greater activity, ensure that the tax obligations set out in this Title are properly identified, measured and recovered, as will the remaining tax liabilities of taxable persons. The Law introduces some other solutions in order to ensure higher inflows into the state budget, as well as with a view to greater tax fairness. Some solutions will certainly need to be further examined and further amended or supplemented in the course of the procedure. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act is suitable for further consideration. I will also continue to address the income problems of daily migrants, our citizens and citizens, who work mainly in neighbouring Austria, as well as in other countries. This is not a systemic solution in the area of income law. This so far is not a systemic solution. The proposed amendment to this amendment, which we are considering, also does not bring about a systemic solution. We are advocating a systemic solution. As it is said, more is involved in the further discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Aloji Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u60	Your Honor! We are not changing the Income Act for the first time this year. As early as spring, the Act on the Balance of Public Finances in the Income Scale between the provisional measures for 2013 and 2014 added a tax class, the fourth. In the case of income tax on the common income of natural persons, taxation is at the forefront of the principle of economic capacity. A key question for each company and decision makers in it is how to share the tax burden among the taxpayers in order to finance the projected or possible volume of the budget. The burden distribution is supposed to be fair. The problem of fairness is the most frequently discussed tax problem – buy books and daily bills in hotels and the problem remains unresolved. Everyone has their own idea of him. Many of the solutions proposed by the Government extend to very different areas, including importance. There is only a few clarifications, such as in terms of ratings and property thefts, some consistent with other regulations – I think about volunteering and investment funds – some standard incomes from basic agricultural and economic activities. But for agriculture, at least that's a hint. Because of all the facts and specificities, and in particular because of the benefits and interests of farmers, we want the competent ministries – more in this area – to become part of the solution and not part of the problem. Otherwise, the main topic of the changes seems to be the tax rate or better, flat-rate expenditure. This is a measure that measures the administrative burdens of small entrepreneurs with greater certainty as to the amount of the tax liability. The measure, which is not intended in principle for some short-term budgetary necessity, but for the promotion of entrepreneurship, although it is not possible to overlook it, is cautious. It is not clear, even because trust in society is at the lowest levels, to what extent the proposed solution will also be attractive to small entrepreneurs, because the proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the Law on corporate income tax also has a completely comparable solution. That's good and good, by the way, but at the same time we'd be expecting him on the sent-off bench. Recalculation and tax and status adjustments are expected for entrepreneurs. According to trade halls, entrepreneurs and professions, as well as ours, the barrier is clearly too low a threshold for entry – 50,000 euros. We believe that the conditions for entry in this respect need to be changed upwards and without unnecessary prejudice. More questions than answers are also about the proposed cedral regime, both in flat-rate taxation and in renting assets, as well as in the elimination and reduction of certain special personal allowances, for example more in students, and less in tax losses and at least in migrants, since they are still those who benefit all the rights that go to citizens in our country. In Positive Slovenia, we believe that the proposal for a law, subject to some reservations, urgent considerations and additions that have already been made today, is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs. Patricia Schulin, Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u62	Madam President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present in the hall and to those who accompany us through television sets! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act provides for new solutions in several areas. In particular, in the area of determining the tax base on the income of natural persons engaged in the activity, taking into account the standard expenditure; in the area of eliminating the reduction of certain tax revenues; in the field of the income of volunteers, ratings, investment funds, the removal of real estate in the decommissioning processes, income from the rental of property and income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities. Changes in income from income will also have a direct impact on the change in expenditure on social transfers. In this way, those who lower their tax burden may be entitled to lower and lower social transfers, and those who increase their tax burden may be entitled to more and higher social transfers. By simplifying corporate tax operations by upgrading the existing system of standardised expenditure, it is desirable to promote small entrepreneurship so that the system of standardised expenditure is accessible to a wider range of taxpayers. Taxpayers entering the tax base system, taking into account actual revenue and standardised expenditure, are not obliged, in accordance with the provisions of the Company Act, to keep business books and to draw up annual reports, which means a substantial administrative simplification of business. Following the current law, the system of standardised expenditure could be entered into by those debtors whose business income did not exceed €42 000 in the last 12 months and who did not employ workers. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act, which we are considering today, follows the upgrade of the existing system and sets a higher limit on the revenue from carrying out activities, which is set as a condition for entry into the system of standardised expenditure, so that revenue should amount to EUR 50 000 and be determined in accordance with the principle of accrued realization in the tax year preceding that tax year. The percentage of standardised expenditure is set at an absolutely higher rate by a new proposal for a law. This raises the current 25% to 70% of tax revenue, making the tax base system more commercially acceptable on the basis of standardised expenditure. However, it also means the administrative burden on taxpayers who carry out the activity. The draft law also introduces the taxation of taxable persons' incomes which decide to determine the tax base of the operating income by using standardised expenditure, meaning that the tax to be calculated and paid by the taxpayers will be considered as a final tax and will not be charged at the annual level as part of the calculation of the annual income obligation. The revenue for the tax year of such taxable persons will be calculated from the tax base at a uniform rate of 20% and, as has already been said, will be considered as a definitive tax. In the area of the use of losses from past tax periods, which the taxpayers may have imposed up to the level of the tax base, it is now established to limit the use of these losses from past tax periods to 50% of the base of the tax year. The bill also aims to promote the social activities of individuals who, through their knowledge and experience, contribute to improving the quality of life of individuals and social groups and to the development of a solidarity, humane and equal society. Thus, in determining the tax base on the income of volunteers under certain conditions and up to certain amounts, there are certain exemptions for the payment of income from certain benefits received under the Voluntary Act by natural persons engaged in voluntary work. Thus, the tax base does not include compensation for the use of the volunteer’s own resources; compensation for the personal costs of a volunteer who is assigned to perform an organised voluntary work abroad in Slovenia or from Slovenia abroad on the basis of a European or international programme, or on the basis of an agreement with a voluntary organisation; the award paid by a voluntary organisation to a volunteer for exceptional achievements; and the payment of a voluntary organisation for the accident insurance of a volunteer. The law also provides for the exemption of income from state prizes and recognitions for outstanding achievements in the field of volunteering and awards for outstanding achievements in the field of volunteering paid by self-government local communities. Furthermore, the proposal for a law setting out the definition of purchase value, which is the basis for the valuation of ratings in the form of the private use of service vehicles, aims to eliminate inequalities in the determination of the value of ratings in the case of different methods of acquiring a motor vehicle. Thus, the law provides that, irrespective of the method of obtaining the vehicle, i.e. ownership, financial or operational rental of the vehicle, the purchase value of the vehicle, which is the basis for determining the worker’s rating, shall be included in the value added tax. In the case of natural persons who do not achieve income from renting within the framework of the activity carried out, a tax on the income derived from the renting of the property shall be introduced, which means that these incomes will be taxed at a rate of 25 % tax and thus the tax paid will be considered as a definitive tax. In determining the tax base, a standard cost of 10 % will be recognised, or the actual cost of maintaining the assets on the basis of the invoices paid by the owner of the property to be leased. Such taxation shall be used to stimulate the rental market of real estate by individuals with unused properties. It also indirectly encourages voluntary forecasting of these revenues by those taxpayers who have not yet announced these revenues. It is also intended to encourage lessors to request the issuance of an account from service providers related to the maintenance of assets. There is a lot of gray economy on the ground in all of these segments that I have just said. The proposal also closes the deadline for the transfer of farm households with more than €7 000 500 of total income from basic agricultural and forestry activities, by flat-rate taxation on the determination of the tax base on the basis of actual income and actual expenditure or actual income and standardised expenditure, from 1 January 2013 — as originally intended — for one year ahead, on 1 January 2014. As already heard today, this law also reduces the specific relief granted to a resident who is educated and has the status of a student or student up to the age of 26 for income for temporary or occasional work carried out on the basis of a travel authorisation, an authorised organisation or the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for employment in an amount equal to the amount of general relief for this year, which is 3 000 228.45 euros, for half of this amount. This law also provides for the abolition of the relief granted to a resident, a cross-border migrant who, from a employer who is not a resident of our country, receives income from the employment relationship carried out abroad and returns to Slovenia on a daily basis or at least once a week. These incomes are also taxed in the country where they are achieved by actually double taxation, but this is eliminated by reducing the income paid under Slovenian regulations by the migrant worker in another country, which proves to the tax office with proof of payment of the tax or income in another country. With the implementation of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, it is estimated that all these changes will have a positive effect on the budget, which in a few million, will also increase for the following year, 2013/2014, this revenue, also due to the impact of reducing the potential for tax losses from previous years. For the sake of all that has been said in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we believe that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and starting a general discussion of Members and Members. In view of the fact that there have been quite a few changes to the debate that has been announced, I would like to inform you that the first three discussers are mags. Diane jedan, mag. Katarina Hotchevar and Joseph Horvat. Here you go, mag. Thirsty.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished Minister with fellow Members, nice greeting! One question is: Can every minister, when he becomes a minister, imagine that the world began with his appointment, or is there continuity? I'm talking about people who are looking for a way to survive themselves and their families in Austria, maybe somewhere else, because they couldn't find work in Slovenia. In the time of the government of Janša, when the minister — unfortunately, the deceased — Dr. Bajuk, was with the country, they agreed on a way of compromise. Unfortunately, it was not done to the end and they again agreed with the Slovenian State on a compromise that led to some obligations being settled back and also that part of the income began to pay in the Slovenian state budget – this compromise was concluded with the previous government. The current minister, who, by the way, has not been able to meet with representatives of the civil initiative, has again broken this compromise, which they have concluded, not with a specific minister, but with the Slovenian state. I suggest that, even on behalf of this country, which was not created yesterday or a year ago, you reconsider your history, your esteemed minister. You, too, a respected coalition that has been part of a compromise and you have agreed with it, reflect again on whether it is right for people every year, again and again when a new government appears, to change their way of life in this country, or whether it is right — in my opinion it is not — and find a way that the life they have so far will not be completely changed again. I call on you, just as it is appropriate for you to take into account, as reasonable politicians, what the Pahor government has agreed, to take into account what the former government of John Janša has agreed, and to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The purpose of amending the Income Act is to make it more transparent and equal treatment of natural taxpayers and, above all, the burden on small economic operators. If they voluntarily join the tax base system by taking into account standardised expenditure, they will receive both tax and administrative burdens, and I am most impressed by this amendment of the law. After independence, the Slovenians were regarded as an entrepreneurial nation. We had a large number of independent entrepreneurs, and I say that, above all, we strangled independent entrepreneurs with an unattractive business environment and bureaucracy. I believe that the law is a good journey, that as many of our citizens as possible, including young people with good ideas, with innovative solutions, will decide on the way to create their own jobs. I am pleased that the control of these debtors is being simplified, as it will focus only on the revenue review. I believe that these measures will also stimulate economic activity. I hope that this will also be an incentive for those who work in the area of the grey economy to engage in legitimate activities. I will support the new law on income, in particular in the belief that it will contribute to the mosaic of job creation and to a more transparent, simpler legislation that is particularly friendly to small businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Following Mr Horvato will be the next three panellists: Renata Brunskole, mag. Andrej Shircelj and Mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! As I have already announced, my debate will go towards finding a just solution for those of our citizens and citizens working in neighbouring countries, I am thinking mainly of about 12 000 citizens working in neighbouring Austria. Why is he actually going? Maybe my friends and colleagues don't even know the background. Something's been said today. But I think we were right with a fellow magician. I've been spreading around since the beginning. I must say, I am disappointed that there has not been a systemic solution in this area to this day. First, I have to take the minister to the defense. Earlier it was said that he had failed to meet with the Civil Initiative Apache – as far as I know, the Minister of Civil Initiative Apache has accepted. We also met with this civil initiative yesterday with representatives of coalition parliamentary groups. The income from the employment relationship that residents achieve through employment outside Slovenia is in line with the 2005 global income concept – let me remind you that we entered the European Union on 1 May 2004 – also taxed in Slovenia. As these incomes are also taxed in the country where they are achieved, there is double taxation, which is eliminated by reducing the income paid under the Slovenian rules by the income paid in another country. It's a mistake when someone says that our employees in Austria, the daily migrants, pay double taxes. That's not true. I just explained what the principle of taxation is. The problem is, however, that in Austria the amount of earnings on an annual basis is relatively high — the amount that is not taxed and therefore there is an additional tax on us. These workers do not pay the advance, and then it is a grim realization when these workers have to pay relatively high amounts at the end of the year or in the calculation of the income. In 2005, for the first time, I met representatives of the civil initiative, in Apache, in the sports hall. I had about 700 employees at the time. Today I can say that I have nothing against these people, but that we are all in a desire to find a system solution. I have also met several times with them — not for the last three years because I was not important and I had no voice in this national assembly. The matter began to be resolved by the Convention between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Austria on the Prevention of Double Taxation. For reasons not explained to me, this Convention has remained in the drawer. Why? I have no answer to this question, but I think this is the right direction in which we need to find a solution for these workers. I would like to say on behalf of the Apache Civil Initiative or on behalf of these day-to-day migrants that they also want to pay taxes in Slovenia so that they do not run away from it. Of course, it's the right height. Where's my review? My criticism is that, on the one hand, we are talking about 10 to 12 thousand workers working in Austria from the data we have received from the Ministry of Finance, and the number of commitments made by these migrant workers, which has made it possible to make it easier for EUR 7 000 400, only EUR 1 000 560. I logically conclude that this means that others do not pay any taxes in Slovenia. It's about finding a systemic solution. This will be good for the citizens who have found work in Austria – and thank God they have found it – and it will also be good for Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u70	Thank you very much. How nice to meet you! I will also support the amendment of the law at first reading, although I cannot say that all solutions are such that I can fully agree with them. Taxes are the most important source of public finances. The tax on the income of natural persons — that is, income — is one of the so-called large three taxes charging the state budget, in addition to VAT consumption and social security contributions. In amending the law, there are two approaches to taxation of the income of natural persons. In the case of a comprehensive approach, all incomes shall be treated equally, aggregated and a certain tax rate applied to the sum obtained. However, in the case of a cedular approach, different sources of income are taxed differently. Tax systems are based, in principle, on a comprehensive approach, but most of them have disguised cedularity. This introduces in the system a different recognition of standardised costs in the acquisition of individual types of income. The operating income limit, which is also discussed in the proposal to supplement and amend the Income Act, is increasing from €42 000 to €50 000. If we are to encourage trade, self-employment and the operation of small businesses, we should consider the threshold, as far as the threshold is concerned, because the threshold is still too low, according to our assessment and also my assessment. They say that we are looking for the administrative burden of taxpayers, small entrepreneurs, but they are mainly, as we say, small entrepreneurs of masters and acquaintances of their craftsmanship, and the administration at this point presents them with an excessive burden of time. So we're for administrative unloading, less paperwork than the craftsmen say. However, we cannot ignore the fact that we would like a more comprehensive approach by the competent ministry and government in the preparation of tax legislation to avoid, in addition to encouraging entrepreneurship, the search for legal and tax emptiness when entrepreneurs calculate and seek the status form of the greatest tax advantage and therefore carry out status adjustments. The changes are expected to result in an increase of €23 million in the budget, although income in the area of flat-rate income taxes in 2013 will be reduced by €2.3 million. Special relief is being reduced for migrants, including for the income of residents who are educated and have the status of a student or student, for the income for temporary and occasional work carried out on the basis of the travel of authorised organisations or employment institutions engaged in the activity of intervention of students to the level of half of the current general relief. However, I cannot help but resolve a number of issues in this area, including in the area of taxation and transparency and consistency, by adopting a small work law last year, and students would not, as they did yesterday, have come before the National Assembly with shopping carts. According to a certain continuation or consistency of the drafting of legislation, administrative burdens are also foreseen in the field of agricultural activities. By transferring the case to 2014, when measures are to enter into force and by transferring the matter of accounting in the field of agriculture or such amendments to 2014, the Ministry has in fact transferred this matter to a later period, as has already been presented in its views today. It would be wise to be more willing to discuss and listen to individual factors in the preparation of tax legislation. I have in mind both the areas of agriculture, barracks, farmers, as well as the areas of crafts, entrepreneurship and other matters. We will also come to the following taxes when we talk about VAT and so on, and obviously also in this area, we are not talking enough with individual chambers, representatives of craftsmen, entrepreneurs, farmers. Here there will be dissatisfaction and fear, which I have already said in one of the debates, that we will see an even higher rate of unemployment, that we will not be able to increase employment in new jobs, but vice versa, by this change in tax legislation. I will support this first-reading income law, but in the following, I will carefully consider whether it will not go to the detriment of those who are self-employed, who have a significant impact on survival as well as on the existence of legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Shircelj, the next three behind him are Mr Mag. Ivan Vogrin, mag. Majda Potrat and Mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! By amending the Income Act, we give natural persons, independent entrepreneurs, farmers, those who rent real estate, certain signals. Determined signals on how to operate on the market, how to behave on the market and how to operate on the market so that they are as successful as possible. In addition, we give certain signals to certain groups, such as students, migrant workers, about what they can expect in the future and what these signals actually give them. The first point I would like to point out is that each country in the European Union is doing this on its own, so that there are no European directives in this regard, except perhaps an interest directive, which concerns natural persons in part. Everything else is done by the states as they wish. They take into account, in particular, the financial, economic, social, cultural characteristics of each country. If we're talking about personal tax and certain signals, then we're giving a signal here to entrepreneurs, especially those who start again, to make it easier to start. Those entrepreneurs who have less than 70% of the costs or expenditure will still be interested in flat-rate taxation, as 70% of them are assured. Those with higher expenditure will continue to go to bookkeeping in this case, as well as to identify these expenditure and profits. It is necessary to know whether we are giving a certain signal, whether these are mainly service activities, advisory activities, or perhaps some other activity, and what could be changed in this case; what effect this would have on entrepreneurship if the price now raised from EUR 42 000 to EUR 50 000 increased. For those renting real estate, we also admit in taxes that they are issuing or earning property income and will be taxed. Student work will be more taxed because we need financial revenues, the country needs financial revenues, and this special status will be limited and it will probably go further in this direction. There are also so-called labour migrants, weekly, day-to-day migrants, who do not just work in Austria, also work in Italy and probably in other countries. There's a lot of confusion about that. This bill abolishes their facilitation and does not examine the following: for the first time, it is also explained that the tax is charged if double taxation occurs. According to my information, the Treaty on the avoidance of double taxation with Austria should be examined where Austria has an exemption method for its workers working abroad. In other words, the Austrians who work in Slovenia and receive income from Slovenia are not taxed for these incomes in Austria. For us, Slovenia, according to my information, something may have changed in the last few moments, but this is not the case, and in this regard, the Austrian Finance Ministry has already asked for it, and by 2008, it was negotiated, but I do not know if anything had been negotiated and what wishes. According to my information by Austria there were no reservations, more reservations at the time perhaps even by Slovenia. This case is inconsequential here. Indeed, we are talking about a systemic solution – Austria, Germany and the other countries, for their taxpayers, are regulating this by means of an agreement to avoid double taxation. It is therefore necessary to examine this and, in my opinion, to regulate it before such an facilitation. Otherwise, I support that the law goes into further consideration. However, there is no need for these conditions to change in a way that is not usual in the countries with which we make agreements to avoid double taxation. This should also be complemented in the explanatory statement and in the international comparison, where we are talking about that Austria does not have a specific solution for this, but, according to my information, it does not have 100 %, but they are quite ready – special solutions to the double taxation agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u73	Thank you very much. My friend Vogreen is not with us. It's mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister with fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! It has already been said in the opinion of the Group that the Social Democrats will oppose this law in the first reading. But I would like to say for my own reasons why I will oppose this law. I will rely only on one point of the proposed amendments, which are essential to me. In view of its work and monitoring of legislation so far, as well as the problems associated in Slovenian society with the late self-reliance of young people, it was possible to see that solving the housing problem is one of the main problems of the young generation. If I link this to the fact that in ownership structure and in comparison with the rental in Slovenia of the owners of dwellings is incredibly large – even enormous for European statistics – it would be more beneficial for a young family or a young person to choose to rent an apartment if the apartment could be rented at an acceptable price. I believe that lending to young families can also be linked to a reduced quality of life for young families, because a large proportion of their income has to be paid or spent on housing loans. This is the situation we've been in. I am not saying that in the Slovenian space there is no need to change the housing law and find any other solutions. I see the last such solution in the company, which is introduced into Slovenia by the Swiss model. But what effects and the extent of the partnership in managing housing problems will show time. There's no such thing so far. If I derive from the legislation in force that has now been regulated – that the rent revenues have been taxed on the principle of tax fairness, which means, given the ability to pay the tax – it would seem to me that what I see as a problem is an appropriate solution. It may be possible to follow the Finnish model, which introduces three differentiated rates in the case of taxation. However, in the final sequence, the final user raises the victim. That's a tenant. Because the lessor will always find himself on a certain path, so that the higher tax costs will pass on to the lessor. I don't think I can agree to giving entrepreneurs any kind of signal. Yes, if real estate is a business activity. But it is important to ask why it is necessary to put on the same level those who have the opportunity to broadcast only one real estate and it is only part of the income of the real estate owner — but it is not his primary activity. From this point of view, such a proposed solution cannot be accepted. Maybe it would be different to find one. However, as proposed, it is unacceptable for me, so I do not intend to support the law at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek. It is followed by Aloyz Potočnik, Janko Weber and Maria Plavčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u76	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. I believe that my colleagues and all the debaters are in front of me and, above all, my colleague Patricia Šulin and my colleague are mags. Andrej Šircelj, have already explained in detail the reasons why this novel is suitable for further consideration. Since I'm running out of time, I'm probably gonna drop by the rest of the time later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Aloysius Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. One of the key tax laws, and this is indisputable, the Income Act, is based on the premise that individuals, economic operators, institutions and others in society behave in mutual relations within the framework of some generally accepted standards, including ethical ones, if you wish. This is essential for some social cohesion. Probably not far from the truth is also a claim, the most frequently used mantra of modern entrepreneurship, that anything that is not prohibited is allowed. From this point of view, I will allow myself in this general debate to relativise and question some of the starting points followed by the proposal for a flat-rate regulation. According to individual sectors of activity, it would probably soon be difficult to separate activities where flat-rate taxation is appropriate from activities for which it is not appropriate. For example, flat-rate taxation of lawyers, notaries, dentists and so on would be inappropriate, as in most cases they achieve high incomes and show a significantly higher base for income than other activities. If the flat-rate taxation is to be determined differently according to the type of activity, the question arises as to the correctness of determining the basis for the income and also the correctness of the classification of the individual undertaking according to the classification of the activity. The first problem is already in revenue. Here is a record of revenue problematic and from supervisory experience is actually known, and this is no secret that the taxpayers tend to conceal traffic, to be prone to tax adaptation – some more, some more, some nothing, some much different. This makes it difficult to talk about the classical flat-rate taxation that was in force before the first introduction of income into our system. Only a flat-rate minimum tax obligation should be laid down, which should be paid by the taxable person carrying out the activity — I would like to stress the word “must” — and should ensure a certain degree of reality in the exercise of expenditure. Data on expenditure suggest that it is not only an incorrect display of revenue, as I mentioned earlier, but also that there are large illogicalities and types of incomparability in expenditure, even within individual sectors. For independent entrepreneurs, it is clear that only a few industries, a few professions, can also be mentioned — dentists, accountants, athletes, notaries, doctors and lawyers — those who show less than 70 percent of income expenditure and all other activities are higher, i.e. the average share of income expenditure is probably over 90 percent. The result is, you can imagine, undetected revenue and irregular or over-expenditures. Because of the large number of commitments, this is very difficult to control or control — we know those in this business — only to a small extent, which cannot have a significant impact on the overall situation in this area. Let me go to micro-enterprises. However, the share of income expenditure is even higher for micro-enterprises, particularly those who do not employ workers. The average share of expenditure in the income of micro-enterprises without employment varies between 95 per cent and 100 per cent. In other words, colleagues and colleagues, the tax is nothing here. These companies are mainly creating losses. To consider what would have been the case if all independent entrepreneurs and micro-enterprises had determined the highest percentage of the expenditure that had been taxly recognised in relation to the revenues achieved, ranging from 50 per cent to 80 per cent according to the type of activity. That's the problem I mentioned at the outset. This percentage would not take into account the remuneration paid and the duties paid relating to them. This would, in my view, strongly stimulate those who are committed to hiring and paying taxes, which is a rapidly acceptable objective of economic policy, including those governments, of any government that comes. The ranges could be set in cooperation with the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, depending on the type of activity and existing standards, which I believe are also not a secret to the Ministry of Finance. Thus, for example, it could be said that the maximum percentage of income expenditure should not exceed 80 %. According to the conduct, there is a similar arrangement in neighbouring countries, including those already mentioned today. If I were to conclude, then the government decided to make one of the simplest decisions in the flat, I would say, even elegant solutions. That's right. Also, it is true that each style has its own price. The solution is not optimal in terms of economic capacity and also in terms of the scope of the taxes collected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber, followed by Mirko Brulc, only Bevk and Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u80	Thank you. I would just like to point out briefly that we also requested a general debate on the grounds that the Government can further consider its decision when it wants to abolish a special tax relief for cross-border migrants. If this happens, we can expect many to apply better abroad and pay full taxes there. In this case, Slovenia will lose both its taxes and its citizens. Last but not least, the problem of taxation of rents in the way that even those with very large amounts of housing pay almost the same tax as those with possible housing, two, and trying to survive from month to month, in our opinion, is unfair. That is why I do not support this law alone, and I hope that after the general debate there will be further reflection on the Government and will not insist on these very criminal solutions in our opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Look, we're forcing young families to buy apartments, and this is a bad forecast for all those who want to fix a housing problem. Instead of allowing them to rent apartments as cheap as possible – we know that we have many apartments in Slovenia, but there are many young families who cannot afford to buy and then live with their parents. We should encourage housing by legislation that would not force housing owners to broadcast in black. It happens to us that some part of the rent is recognised, which is published publicly and also pays income from that, while the contribution of the lessor remains hidden. I am not opposed to the cedular taxation, but I am opposed to abolishing the progressive taxation of rent income. This makes a mistake and once again extends the rich. About border migrants – everywhere, Slovenia is small, we are bordering on richer countries. Because of the threat that Slovenians and Slovenians could be evicted because of some better living conditions on the other side of the border, this is extremely damaging for Slovenian citizens. Let's be careful and solve this problem. At present, this is a problem with the state of Austria or with citizens living along the Austrian border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Just Bevk. Since certain Members are absent, I will tell you how they follow: Mrs Marjana Kotnik, Mr Jože Tanko and then Ivan Hršak, because I see that he is here. No, no, no. Then Matthew Frangež, if there's any time left. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! As some have already mentioned, it has been regulated on the basis of the existing legislation by taxing the rental income on the principle of tax fairness, which means, given the ability to pay the tax. The government is now introducing a uniform tax rate. There is very little time for a longer debate, but in monitoring today's debate in the National Assembly, I would expect Minister of Finance, Mr Šušteršič, to respond, comment and respond to the dilemmas that have been put here. Let us remember earlier how the President of the National Assembly commended one minister for his active participation and I also expect that from the Minister of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u85	Thank you very much. So the next person who's here and still has time is Mrs. Patricia Schulin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u86	Madam President, thank you for your word. Perhaps you would just comment on the dilemmas and concerns you have about renting real estate. My opinion is that whoever rents real estate is certainly not poor. If you're renting something, then you're living somewhere else. If you're renting an apartment, you have another apartment or you have an apartment. It's over. In time-sharing, I will tell you more about the secrets in this area, which sometimes go to the detriment of those who rent the apartment. With regard to the raising of the threshold of up to €50,000 for entry into the system of standardised expenditure, I would like to say that, after the current system, when this threshold was €42 000, these pledges were around 95,000. By raising the threshold to €50,000, we will cover a largely wider range of these debtors, and this also means administrative relief in the sense that these debtors will not have the costs of accounting services. These are two measures, which are then regarded as a definitive tax after the tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Now for the proposer, Dr. Janez Šušteršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. I've been listening to all these discussions. I did not comment, because the discussions were such that there was no need for direct replicas, but at the same time it seemed reasonable to listen and then comment. It is clear what the main issues are – around working day migrants. That's all there was to it. First, I would like to confirm that we have already met with representatives of the civil initiative. It was found that it was an old story — this is quite clear — that it was a variety of attempts to solve it, first by an international treaty. I don't know why it didn't happen, it was stopped years ago, and then this extra income relief was introduced. Somehow the general view was that this was an non-systemic solution, so that it would be better if we found something different, otherwise this solution is in constitutional judgment. There's probably no constitutional judgment this year. If it is negative, it means that we lose without having any other solution. We have proposed, given that together we are aware of the problem, that perhaps the representatives of the civil initiative – not only those working across the border, but also those who are tax experts – are proposing some different solutions to come up with a compromise. The fact is, in the Income Act, it is difficult to have a provision that specifically excludes only some income, depending on where it is obtained. It is, in fact, exempt because – and I think we need to be clear – the burden of working in Slovenia is too high. That's what we're dealing with. Unfortunately, because of the financial situation, we cannot solve this any faster. We have also proposed changes to the tax scale, where we are slightly expanding, as far as financial effects are concerned, the limit of the middle tax class. This is important because most of the people who report these incomes – this is a civilian initiative talking about 12,000 people, we have a thousand 500 of these people in the tax records, the latest data is from 2010. These incomes should apply monthly, but I wouldn't go into it. Most of these people, more than half of them, receive income of between one and two average Slovenian wages. These aren't such low incomes. With such incomes, say, a highly educated person in Slovenia, a highly educated person on average receives 1.6 average wages. The revenues of many of these people are comparable to relatively good income – I stress relative – in Slovenia. However, for our situation, relatively good incomes are significantly more burdensome than those charged in Austria. There are two reasons for that. One reason is a very high general relief compared to ours, which is in Austria. The other is a significantly higher class compression with us. In our country, we have the custom of setting tax classes according to the average wage. With us there is a great compression, but in practice there are very few people who come over two or three average wages, although we always point to them, I would remind you when we introduced a 50% rate of income, how few people and how little financial impact we could achieve by doing so precisely because of the tightness of wages and wage relations in Slovenia. These are problems that were very clear when the principle of global income was introduced and resolved, as was described very precisely by Member Horvath. I would no longer add to this, except that some discussions are under way. Our wish, too, is not only to end this relief, but to find a solution that would be the middle way, which would be more systematic, perhaps even in terms of exceptions and so on. As far as renters are concerned, the new rate will be effective – this is easy to calculate, taxes on rent – 22 and a half percent. When we calculate from the data we have, what is the tax base for this tax, what is the tax base for this tax, and how much of this is collected, this effective rate of 23.8%, it says, is higher. Here it comes to being smaller in some, but it is smaller because this income goes to the income base. First of all, it's not systemic, because it's not income from work, it's income from some property that's being leased. All other rental incomes have been taxed on us on a regular basis for several years. This year, we raised this rate of taxation from 20 per cent to 25 per cent due to demands that more income from capital be taxed, especially during the crisis. The dividend of interest per thousand euros in capital investment sales – this is about such income. And it's something like that. I'd like to join in in having people who have properties that they can rent, some assets that generate some income. While other people with the same income, perhaps from other sources, do not. Tax data show that on average about 20% of their total income from this source is in the case of people who rent assets. It will be difficult to find cases where people would be existentially dependent on the fact that they are renting a property in which they do not live. I do not think that this change will have the dramatic consequences that have been mentioned. As far as students are concerned, we're talking to them, too. I would like to outline the situation a little bit. The policy towards young people is complex. I would be very happy if we could talk more about the situation of this generation. What does this relief mean today? All we're suggesting is that it splits, not that it stops. It means that a student who works has the right to twice as much relief as anyone else who works. For a student whose parents or the person who cares for him as a dependent family member, this amendment, which we propose, means that he will still have an untaxed salary of about 150 euros per month, which is likely for someone who is supported by parents – or at least they claim to maintain him and to have certain benefits in his income, there are benefits – there are not so few. It already covers almost the cost of renting one room — for example, if we talked about this earlier. This law does not prevent them from earning more. It says that 16% of income will be paid from what is more than 150 euros or twelve times per year, which is compared to people who are also doing casual work and so on, and who are paying or should be paying income, and as soon as they exceed that basic general relief that we all have, it is not such a very bad situation. However, for students who are not enforced by their parents or guardians by no one as dependent members, this change means that they will be able to earn as much untaxed as the gross minimum wage. I also asked these students today how they can – and still after this change – justify such a thing to someone who also deserves a gross minimum wage, and from this they pay social and pension contributions and some small income and care for children, and maybe care for parents with the same income, while they need a report to finance the study. Another problem is that a student who works enough to earn, say, €700 a month is very likely then not to be able to study so much that teachers who are seriously doing their job can admit that he knows enough. It is certainly justified here to adapt to these reliefs. Some conversation with the student representative will continue. It will also be linked to solutions in some other areas, regarding scholarships and other matters that concern them. The last thing that has been discussed is the introduction of flat-rate taxation for entrepreneurs or for persons engaged in activities in this law and in the law on the income of legal persons. There were many discussions with the professional public, including colleagues, even when we were preparing the law. It was presented and made available on our website for a while. How do you actually do that? There were ideas to put a higher limit on not only 50 grand. At first we proposed only 60% of the recognised cost, then it was the idea to go maybe even to 80 – we finally proposed 70. The dilemma was quite great. Different activities are in different situations; someone has high costs, someone has low costs. This will probably be interesting for activities that are not very capital intensive, where there is not much investment. It is true, however, that those activities which have this activity have an unlimited investment relief since this year, because we have lifted the restrictions, have 40% and not only 30% relief, and so on. That's where the benefits are, too. With regard to the amount of 50,000, we have committed ourselves to the proposal to raise the threshold for compulsory inclusion in the system of value added tax to up to 50 000, which means that someone can decide that he is a lump sum and is not a VAT taxable person; he can decide that he is a flat-rate and also a VAT taxable person; nor can he decide that he is a flat-rate person. The estimates are very different, and in particular these savings in administrative costs are difficult to estimate. There's two important things here. One is the management of costs, the records by which you prove tax-exempt costs – this cost is off and this cost is in many cases related to the payment of certain accounting services or similar services. It is not only a cost of work, although it is important, it takes time here, but a service also has a price to pay. The second thing that is very important; such a tax obligation, which has once been ceduaryly established, is final. It can't happen that someone comes in three years and says they're going to throw one of your bills out and so on. This is important in terms of certainty, in particular for small entrepreneurs who do not have this option, they do not have these reserves in order to cover some legitimate or unjustifiablely established tax liabilities – they do not have these reserves. I am pleased that you have supported this solution in principle – in the opposition with comments similar to the dilemmas we had ourselves. Finally we said, "Let's bring it in, let's see what happens! Let's keep an eye on it." Of course, it will be very easy to see how many people will decide what will happen to the tax revenues there, what will be the structure of the activity. Although this data – someone has a major activity, it can actually do a thousand and one things. When we see what is happening, and if we see that the measure has not fully achieved its purpose, we will be able to adapt it very quickly. It's important that people start to get all winded up. We wait maybe six months for all these adjustments to happen, and then we see if anything needs to be corrected. Given some principled understanding of this measure, I do not think it will be a problem if we want to fix and modify relatively quickly on the basis of data. Today, we are in a situation where we cannot predict exactly how someone will respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u89	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted the word for got it. However, since the time for discussion has not run out, I ask if anyone else wants to discuss it on the basis of Article 71, paragraph 1. I can see the hands, so I'm opening the application. Please, the application is in progress. Mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u90	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice hello to you all! This government, together with the coalition, has decided to prepare a favourable business environment for small businesses, independent entrepreneurs, craftsmen and also farmers engaged in basic agricultural and forestry activities, and to make a favourable tax environment that will be predictable and allow less administrative burdens for these debtors. And that's what this law does. I would focus in particular on the biggest change contained in this new flat-rate tax, and we have already heard that the limit for entry into the flat-rate taxation system is EUR 50 000 and is also linked to an increase in entry into the VAT system. The entry is simple, with notification, and also exit is simple, with voluntary exit on the basis of the application of the taxpayer. When entering by notification, it is important to extend automatically. It also introduces the identification of revenue on the principle of calculated realisation for natural persons who determine the tax base by taking into account standardised expenditure, in order not to disregard them or to take double account of them when they arise. In this way, income, which is taxable, is also predictable for both the taxpayer and the State budget. We always have a 30% tax base, which is taxed on a cedual basis with a fixed tax of 20%, which means predictability for the taxpayer and also a predictable inflow into the state budget. According to the 2010 tax accounts on income inflows from activities, there were 60,000 debtors who paid the bill and had an accounting income of up to EUR 50,000. All but 15,000 taxpayers have shown positive results, so that we can expect predictable tax revenues from this title. It should be noted, however, that it is important for taxpayers who decide to enter this system of standardised expenditure that, at the time the tax base is established, the enforcement of unused tax losses is excluded by taking into account the standardised costs. The right to enforcement shall not cease if the taxable person decides to enter the tax base system on the basis of actual revenue and actual expenditure — of course, if he exits the system. At a time when the taxable person is in the flat-rate taxation system, it is also impossible to impose reliefs which, as unused, may be transferred to the time when the taxable person will re-examine the tax base by taking into account the actual income and actual costs or expenditure, but only if the deadline has not yet expired. This is very important. It is important that the tax is definitive, is levied on the basis of a tax invoice and is not charged on the basis of income. Here I would like to draw attention to the rationality of the procedure in the case of ex post tax supervision. Once irregularities are identified in the procedure, there is no renewal of the tax procedure or two procedures, including the tax procedure. This is not the case because the tax is definitive. I would just like to reply to Mr Potočnik – my opinion on why the limit is EUR 50,000. I also look at it in terms of the rationality of the decision-making of taxpayers. Those with higher annual income also choose to invest, reinvest in profits and not to opt for flat-rate taxation because there is no enforcement option [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u91	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Mr. Michael Prevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u92	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! I agree that the law that we are considering and whose primary objective is the additional administrative burden of small entrepreneurship in meeting their financial obligations is suitable for further consideration and that is why I will support it. I am pleased, however, that in his debate, the Minister has indicated that further procedures will need to be followed, in the procedure for the adoption of this law, still have to be followed up on certain matters or on certain matters. I would like to stress once again the problem we see in this law in the Slovenian People's Party. It has already been mentioned by my colleague, Janez Ribič, in the position of our Group of Members, that this double taxation can happen to these people by directly abolishing the benefits for residents, who are also cross-border labour migrants. This problem has been solved by our country for quite some time – it is said that this problem has been solved for six years – and it can be reversed six years ago. I believe that the solution currently in place is not the most appropriate one to find a systemic solution and then to implement international agreements based on international conventions that are not being implemented at this time. However, as has already been pointed out, this double taxation can create considerable problems, as we know that it is estimated that some 12,000 people working in neighbouring countries are in Austria and Italy. This is mainly for people from the northeast of Slovenia, where employment is the hardest to get, and we know that this is how they solve their social problem. I think that these are workers who do not have very high salaries to work more for low wages, and this double taxation could cause these workers to return to the scope of the employment agency and to the scope of the country's social transfers. The projected impact of this is estimated at approximately EUR 2 million. In the Slovenian People's Party, we argue that the impact of these 2 million can quickly turn in the opposite direction and can ultimately lead to even a negative net effect in relation to the entire budget, in particular in the area of higher social transfers. I am so pleased that the Minister has indicated that this is one of those topics that we will try to resolve in the process of adopting this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs. Patricia Shulin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u94	President, thank you for your word. I would like to point out once again that we are removing administrative obstacles in two main matters, namely those taxable persons entering the system of standardised expenditure and in those natural persons who rent real estate and do not mean activity to them. These two matters will also be taxed by a definitive tax, which will no longer be recalculated in the income forecasts, but this does not mean that this type of taxpayers will not be taxed and taxed, so it is also possible for anyone to check the actual data. In particular, it would focus on renting apartments and infringements occurring on the ground. So if we take a case where someone rents an apartment and with a tenant does not conclude a rental contract, thinking that it will cover 200, 400, 800 or more euros a month, and this does not result in taxes, in practice, when a tenant who does not have a contract does not pay liquid costs – electricity, heating, water and so on – the supplier of these energy products will pay the cost of the owner of the apartment, because the owner of the apartment does not have proof that he is renting this apartment to someone and thus has to pay these costs to those users afterwards. I give this thought to those who rent apartments or properties, do not enter into a contract with them and do not report this tax on the income of renting the property. Other infringements, which occurred here: when the apartment was renovated or adapted, up to a certain height, natural persons did not receive invoices from craftsmen for this purpose, so that it was part of a grey economy — in fact, on both sides. We also know from practice that a craftsman asks you if you want an account, because if you don't want it, then his dancing is 30% smaller. This introduction, that costs may also be reduced by the submission of actual costs, means that the person who regularly rents an apartment will have any interest in receiving an invoice from all craft repairers. All these guards present in the field of the grey economy are gradually being introduced here. As I see in all areas, we also need to change our thinking, because the case that I described earlier, when the owner of an apartment that does not conclude a lease is later, if the tenant does not pay fixed costs and additional costs, to pay the costs instead of it – I am thinking about what is the final price of the rent from this rent-free apartment from which the rent is not paid? The price for the owner of the apartment is probably significantly lower or more expensive if it makes the grey economy or gives the apartment and the property, if I say domestically, black. These things are being settled slowly. I am pleased that the Ministry of Finance is also going this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u95	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. The proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration will be decided in the context of Thursday's vote, fifteen minutes after the end of agenda 6th. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a tax law on financial services. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of ten Members and Members with the first signed Janko Webro requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr. Janez Šuštersič, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u96	Your Honor! Allow me first to present a few backgrounds to this bill. It's mostly two pieces of information. One is that in the spring, as you all know, we talked, negotiated, negotiated, if you like, with trade unions regarding the law on public finances balance or measures to reduce the public financial deficit. In the context of these discussions, it has often been called upon to find a way to raise the tax burden of the financial sector in order to contribute more to the reduction of the public financial deficit. There were other suggestions. To take these proposals into account, or to predict that we will take them into account, in the end, it also helped us to reach an agreement with the unions – at least in the sense that they did not challenge the Public Finance Balance Act by a referendum or any other measure, if I say so. The second behind this is that there is an intensive debate in the European Union on the introduction of a financial transaction tax. This debate has also been successful in Slovenia, the National Assembly has already adopted its position twice. The first position was to support the introduction of a financial transaction tax if introduced throughout the European Union. This is mainly because financial transactions – we are talking about this tax at European Union level, financial transactions on the stock exchange, on capital markets or on financial markets – are very sensitive. Countries that have tried to introduce similar instruments themselves in the past have experienced a very large decline in financial activity and have then, say Sweden, put an end to such measures. Since it was not possible to reach any agreement within the European Union to discuss the introduction of such a tax, a group of countries to which Slovenia also joined proposed so-called enhanced cooperation, a process which, if successfully implemented, would allow a limited number of countries that so wished to introduce a financial transaction tax in their own context. Things are not going very fast, and we cannot normally expect this in the European Union, but the National Assembly has already supported Slovenia's participation in such a narrower scale. Yesterday, it was announced that this group of countries would also join the Netherlands, where a new government came into existence, and thus also to discount – it is sometimes good and sometimes not. In this case, it goes in the direction that we agree with. That is why we have decided not to propose and wait for a harmonised European solution to the financial transaction tax, which, by the way, was the most discussed by the unions. We have decided to propose a second form of taxation of the revenues of the financial sector, namely the introduction of a transport tax on the payment of financial intermediation services, i.e. services that are not taxed on value added tax. This is a very simple transport tax to cover those financial services that are not covered by the basic or are exempt from value added tax. The debtors will be persons who provide financial services in the territory of Slovenia – mostly banks, as well as other financial institutions. It is important that this activity is carried out in the territory of Slovenia, i.e. foreign branches, foreign financial institutions that do this to us. The basis will be the compensation paid for such a service. It can have different names, refunds, commissions, entitlements and so on. The tax period is a month, so once a month financial institutions will settle this and pay it — for the first time in May for the month of April if the law is enforced as planned. The proposed overall rate of this tax is 6.5%, the estimated financial impact is €35 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Bojan Starman, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National List, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. As you can see, the proposal to introduce a tax on financial services is 6,5 %. We will support this proposal in the Citizens' List. The reason is that this part of the service is completely non-taxable because it is not already taxed with any traffic tax. We believe, and it will probably happen that this tax will be passed on to citizens, as it has always been, some take this into account earlier when banks raise prices. But I do know that banks try to make money with these services, inventively and in some cases excessively. For a long time, our current accounts have been kept at no cost, now the costs are there from 2 to 2.5. We know that paying checks and all these bills is almost free, now it's quite a cost. We choose for ourselves, we decide for e-commerce – in the post office it is cheaper than in banks and some banks offer all these things. We know that they charge quite a lot for the extension of credits, for the renewal of credits, for the granting of credits. These are all things that are important, but they do not mean such a terrible amount, even assuming that everything will be transferred to their committees. We have also heard, I don't know where, Mr Governor's debate that this part of our banks' revenues represents quite a share and is growing. Banks also cover their bad business in a way that is essential and excessive and already – we have heard and read that the country should cut down and in some way freeze the prices of these banking services and make order in this area. But now we are in a situation where we are looking – every euro is good enough to increase our public finances. If we look for them and try to find them in places where it is even possible and meaningful, it is one of the things that, as I said before, has not been taxed and will have no significant and disastrous consequences for us citizens. In these debates "tax or not" there were also some confusions, often mixed and misunderstood. Many times this mixes with the anticipated – and we have discussed this many times – financial services taxes. Some European countries, such as France, have been in favour of introducing themselves, but some have not, for example, England. This is where the tax is added to financial transactions and where this dislocation of these events can take place in some countries that will not have this tax. In this case, there will be no escape from these services elsewhere, because of this tax, these services will be provided here and banks themselves will make sure that more than they will be, more quality and cheaper services will be available to citizens. In numbers, if we pay 2 euros for a bank account management service, 6% does not mean even 20 cents – 15 cents per month will increase and this is relatively small. However, in the total amount of all services, something will come up, as we say, in our budget treasury. We will support this proposal in our letter. It is one of the possibilities of improving our situation in a way that will not hurt too much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Mr. Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! The tax on financial services will be a new tax in the Slovenian space. You know, in the Slovenian People's Party, we don't like raising any taxes. The business environment in this country is already too busy, and we also accept it with a lump in our throat. However, certain additional revenue needs to be taken into account. Otherwise, with the serious consolidation of public finances, we should cut even more sharply into the cuts in the expenditure side of the budget. This means more austerity and yet another reason for the opposition to harsh criticism by the government coalition. The competent ministry has presented a number of proposals to increase revenue and, as in many countries in Europe, we have decided to put a little burden on the financial sector in the crisis. The undeniable fact is that certain services in the financial and insurance sector are completely taxed, since they are exempt from both the VAT system and the special transport tax and insurance business. At the same time, it is true to say that in recent years some European countries have even introduced a value added tax on financial services. The decision of the coalition is a specific tax rate, 6,5 %, equivalent to the sales tax on insurance transactions. We estimate that the tax will only be partially passed on to the final user. Because the need to change prices for services will also create a certain price competition and a search for competitive advantages. In a slightly more popular language, it is taxing commissions or certain compensations. These are often low amounts. For example, a cash raise on an ATM charged by some banks, suspected to have raised some heavy blood, moves about half the euro. If the bank puts the full burden on the user, this cost will increase the user by 3 cents. We really can't talk about the price shock. However, the principle of this tax is that a number of small transactions increase high amounts. This is also the financial effect of this law. There is, however, a point that I hope that the Minister will be able to clarify later in the debate. This tax also includes the taxation of management commissions of asset management companies. Since this is their basic income from activities, it is likely that these companies will be the most affected by this law. Also because the prices of their services are difficult to adjust overnight because of the nature of their business. Some companies are also thinking about moving their headquarters out of the country — we do not want such movements to happen, and we hope that this will not happen. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we hope that a system will be put in place in time and without complications to settle this tax on the part of the tax administration. As has already been said, we do not welcome the additional tax burdens dealt with. If we were an opposition party today, we would have no problem voting against this law on the principle of non-taxation. But today we also have a responsibility to the sustainability of the budget, and sometimes unpopular solutions need to be adopted. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have decided that this is the least painful solution between those solutions that provide some additional source of income. That is why we will support the marriage at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Plevčak on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u102	Once again, everyone's welcome! As we have already heard in explanation, the Government is introducing a new tax in the Republic of Slovenia with this bill. This is a financial transaction tax which is not taxed today compared to insurance services comparable to financial services. This is a completely new tax source, the purpose of which is simple – charging the budget treasury. The law follows basic tax principles; the subject of taxation is financial services; the taxpayers are banks and other financial institutions; the tax base is compensation or commission; and the tax rate is 6,5 %. The proposal will receive our support from the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners for the following reasons. Today financial services are not subject to taxation, nor are VAT. The financial sector has clearly co-founded the emergence of an economic, financial and thus a social crisis. Citizens, citizens alone bear the cost of bailing out the financial sector. On the other hand, we also have concerns within our parliamentary group about the introduction of a new tax. Paper plans, legal provisions are correct and drawn up in accordance with the rules of tax law and the rules governing the drafting of the text of the bill by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Nevertheless, in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we asked ourselves whether this tax would actually be a tax on financial services to which financial institutions would be liable. We don't think so. In practice, it is highly likely that the actual taxable person will be an individual, either a natural person or a legal entity. Reasons for our concerns: we all know the financial situation of our financial institutions, so it is unlikely that they will be able to fully bear these new costs themselves. It is true that a business decision, i.e. passing this cost on to consumers, is in the full domain of financial institutions. However, it is also the responsibility of the Government, which, in the light of the financial sector's well-known state, indirectly encroachs on consumers. We know that banks don't do anything for free anymore. Every favor, every paper is payable. In the DeSUS Group, we concluded, when weighing all the arguments, that the proposal for a new tax on financial services is suitable for further consideration. Corrections, better solutions, if technically reasoned, will receive our support during the legislative process. The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will support the decision on the appropriateness of the law under consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! For the introduction perhaps something from the New Slovenia programme and the coalition contract. In the New Slovenia economic programme we have written down that we strongly oppose any increase in tax in this mandate. We agree only with the introduction of a real estate tax which is intended to compensate or supplement the present compensation for the use of the building land and the possible imposition of a tax on luxury. In the Coalition Treaty, however, we have stated that the coalition will balance public finances by the end of the mandate and ensure that public debt does not exceed 46% of GDP. This will be achieved mainly by reducing public expenditure and by introducing also a coalition contract to reduce the tax burden. The aim of this new Financial Services Tax Act is to introduce a new tax source at the level of the Republic of Slovenia, which would provide additional revenue from the State budget in the most simple way possible by additional burden on the financial sector. The new tax is introduced in a way that ensures that the tax burden is distributed as evenly as possible, and therefore a possible tax base is introduced as widely as possible. The aim is also to minimise the administrative burden on financial institutions and the tax authority. What are the main solutions to this new law? Firstly, the new Financial Services Tax Act introduces the obligation to pay a financial service tax under which financial services are subject to taxation, which, under the existing arrangements, are exempt from value added tax payments in accordance with the law governing the VAT system and insurance intermediaries and agents. Secondly, the taxpayers for the payment of the financial services tax will be all persons in the territory of Slovenia who provide financial services for which the law provides for taxation. Thus, they will be liable for this tax, for example, by banks, other financial institutions and other persons providing financial services, including branches of foreign banks and business units of foreign legal entities in the Republic of Slovenia, including those of foreign persons who are legally able to provide financial services directly. Thirdly, the financial services tax is a transaction tax and therefore will be charged from the services provided. The formation of a tax liability shall be prudent at the time when the financial service is provided and the financial service shall be deemed to have been carried out at the time when the commission is paid for it. Fourthly: the tax base for the payment of the tax constitutes the refund or commission received by the taxable person as a payment in respect of the financial services rendered. As a rule, in practice such fees shall be defined as compensations, commissions, entitlements or costs. The tax period is the calendar month. The tax rate is 6,5 % of the tax base. The law provides for the exemption of the tax on certain financial services, namely services already subject to value added tax and value-added tax on insurance and financial services carried out by certain entities, such as the Bank of Slovenia, the European Central Bank, the European Union, the European Financial Stability Instrument, the international financial institution set up by two or more Member States of the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Investment Bank, international organisations and the diplomatic and consular representation of foreign countries. The law also deals with basic procedural issues, including the issue of storage of documentation and so on. What are the public financial effects? On the basis of the assessment that the tax base is totaling around 540 million per year and taking into account a tax rate of 6,5 %, this amounts to EUR 35 million per year of the State budget's revenue for the introduction of this tax. We also respect the different responses to the proposed law. The introduction of a financial service tax is opposed by the Bank of Slovenia, the Association of Banks of Slovenia, the Union of Consumers of Slovenia. Banks and other financial institutions are expected to bear most of the burden of this tax on the final consumer. The collection of this tax will require additional costs for the taxpayers to establish information support, to account for this tax and so on. We also understand the Minister of Finance, Dr. Janez Šuštersič, who is certainly the first to be called and responsible for filling the state treasury. The New Slovenia Group announces its support for this Financial Services Tax Act, but we believe that the law will further improve during the parliamentary procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Aloj Potočnik on behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u106	Your Honor! The proposal for the Financial Services Tax Act, which we are considering today, is one example of the adoption of legislation, where it continues with established practice and forwards proposals to the National Assembly that are at least not aligned with the professional public. As we know, the whole professional public has come together in the view that the introduction of a new tax on financial services is inappropriate. In the European Union, at least that seems to be the case, this issue is still open. The government has chosen perhaps the most inappropriate moment to impose the tax. The introduction of the tax will be further affected since the crisis, in one way or another, by the operation of banks, brokerage houses whose turnover has fallen by 90 per cent in recent years and by companies whose turnover has been reduced by half. On the one hand, the Government is setting up a so-called bad bank to stabilise and rehabilitate the banking system and, on the other hand, it is burdening them with an excuse that the financial sector has not contributed sufficiently to the resolution of the crisis. In fact, it is different, and in fact it contributed much more than it had to. Remember, last year a tax was introduced on the balance sheet total of banks to encourage banks to more actively lend to the economy. The measure did not fall on fertile soil, the goal would not be achieved, but it still awaits us. Now a new source for charging the state budget has been found in the financial sector, which has been plagued by increasingly poor business results. The result of the additional burden may also be that part of the financial institutions will take the path under their feet and move abroad and that banks will transfer this to the citizens because of the heavy economic burden of the new tax. An additional burden on the tax administration is also problematic in the proposal. The government in its explanation for the bill states that the information system of the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia will need to be upgraded in order to implement the law, as we already know from experience that it can be a source of new problems. For days ago, we witnessed unloved events related exactly to the non-action of this. It is not irrelevant, however, that financial service providers will also have to adjust their systems in order to properly account for and decommission the tax, which normally means an additional burden for the financial sector. If we have all this in front of us, it is clear that the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia cannot support such an approach to introducing new taxes so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Ms Patricia Šulin on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u108	President, thank you for your word. Once again, a nice greeting to all present! A new tax on financial services introduces a new tax form that will ensure a more even distribution of the tax burden of the financial sector compared to other economic sectors charged with indirect taxes. The proposal for a Financial Services Tax Act introduces a commission tax to be charged by persons providing financial services to the contracting authorities of such services. The added value generated by the financial sector remains untaxed in Slovenia following the current regulation. A tax rate of 6,5 per cent of the tax base represented by the commission received by the taxable person as a payment in respect of the financial service performed is foreseen. The rate is the same as already in force for insurance and financial services, as defined by the law governing banking. The primary taxpayers will be the payment of this tax to the bank, to the savings offices, to the branches of foreign banks and to other financial institutions providing financial services, and to legal and natural persons providing insurance intermediaries and agents. The obligation to pay a tax on financial services is introduced, under which the tax will be subject to a financial service which, under this law, governs the VAT system, is exempt from value added tax. Under the law governing banking, insurance services charged with the turnover of insurance transactions shall also be considered as subject to taxation, provided that insurance and representation services are also provided for in this law, which are exempt from the value added tax system as well as from the specific transport tax on insurance transactions. The tax will be charged and paid on the basis of monthly tax accounts, for which the deadline for submission is set at the end of the month following the tax period, so that the tax will also have to be paid within that period. The proposed law expects positive financial effects on the state budget, although the law will also have some financial implications for the public treasury expenditure side, as taxation also covers commissions paid for financial services by public treasury. The draft law also provides for the exemption of the tax on certain financial services, i.e. services taxed on VAT and insurance business taxes, and financial services taxed on VAT and insurance transactions, and financial services provided or provided for certain entities. The law imposes on the debtors the obligation to keep documentation and data relevant for the correct calculation of the tax, so that the taxable person must provide in the ordinary records and general accounts all the information required by the tax authority for subsequent control. The Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia will exercise control over the correctness of tax collection under this Act. Social Democratic Party Group [L.A.] considers that it is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u110	To make no mistake, you are Slovenian Democrats, we are Social Democrats. It would be extremely embarrassing if someone would take our place. At the time of this government's launch, when it presented a plan for sharp fiscal consolidation, we called on it to extend consolidation for a longer period of time and to consolidate public finances also through new tax revenues. On the one hand, we are pleased that at least part of the advice the Government has taken into account and prepared a package of laws that introduce some new tax revenues. In view of the content of these laws, I regret to conclude that these laws are more than an increase in tax inflows, a package of laws to promote the grey economy. This can be said for the Income Act, for the Financial Services Act and for the Value Added Tax Act, which we will deal with a little later. The grey economy represents a wide field of not covered public money and a wide field, from which, due to unpaid contributions, a lot of people are also denied their social security. In this broad field, which is estimated by international organisations in Slovenia to range from 20 to 30 % of our GDP, they should cover most of the public financial revenues. By the measures we are taking these days, we are actually going to encourage a grey economy. The Financial Services Tax Act is problematic. Following warnings from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Association of Banks of Slovenia and the Bank of Slovenia will increase the need for administration, increase the costs of accounting, introduce the so-called cascade effect of the taxation chain, where the tax rates will not be included, but will be added up. This will encourage services, financial services and, consequently, reduce the activity of banks. The final result will be that, due to the increase in the taxation of the financial service, we will witness an ever-increasing cash payment scale that will result in an increased grey economy. Don't let anyone know the similarity of expressions. This is not a financial transaction tax that we are talking about at European Union level in dynamic but unfortunately long-standing, global discussions. This is a national tax that will create the exact effect that the Slovenian Democratic Party feared when we talked about the financial transaction tax – it will increase the non-competitiveness of Slovenian financial and banking institutions. By the way, it is an interesting comparison – while taxing large financial transactions, speculators, money outflows into tax havens, are the least burdened on these services. Each of us has the need to pay the bills for heating, energy, water, waste disposal, and all of these services are financial services, which, according to the provisions of this tax, will be properly encouraged by the shift of the burden from banks to final consumers. This isn't the right way. In the end, we will witness more expensive positions, most precisely in the poorest, encouraging lending and dissuading people from long-term savings. All of this will result in an increased grey economy. Let me mention another comparison. Financial transactions will be taxed at the level of the participating countries of the European Union at two rates. 0,1 % of transaction taxation and 0.01 % of derivative transactions. The rate of this tax that the government wants to introduce today is 6.5% on the scale of the fee at the time of the financial payment. It is not appropriate, and therefore we call on the majority of this House to reject the law at the general hearing, to send it back to the government with the task of making more tangible proposals, to make proposals to encourage greater borrowing of the financial services provided in the grey economy today. In this way, let us increase public finances and get rid of the unfair competition that is unfortunately massive in Slovenia in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u111	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mrs Renata Brunskole. Please, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. In this law, I think it is important to stress, however, whether it comes from what Mr Minister said in the introduction. He says that the unions have spoken and agreed that banks as well as a sector that is supposed to have money should be taxed further. At the same time, he said in the introduction that the taxation of financial transactions on capital markets was not acceptable because it would reduce their activity and create a major problem. We have the same scene as we do in the work of this government. So it's not taxed on those who have capital, it's taxed on those who live on the edge of some normal survival or on the social edge. Taxation will be significantly more felt by those who receive pensions, social benefits, because when they receive all of this, they will also be taxed further. Taking into account the warnings of the Chamber of Commerce in this regard; in the case of a financial service in case of two intermediaries, the tax will be specifically charged to each intermediary. This particularly burdens the economic work, and if we talk about wanting to encourage some economic activity, we can come to the fact that our companies will rather operate through foreign financial institutions where these transactions are not taxed. So, reckless action and I can say again the Government's unconstant policy in view of the situation in Slovenia. With some simplified issues, they want to obtain some funds in the budget, without even asking themselves if they will make the most of it right, say, craftsmen and those who receive pensions and pay utility bills and whatever you receive from your home. Such a policy is unacceptable to us, and I cannot support this law alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin, get Mr. Mirko Brulc ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u115	I'm sorry, mag. Vogrin. Is time okay? Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u116	No problem. Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! I cannot support this bill. As already presented in the presentation of our Group's position by Mr Potočnik, the following financial services are subject to taxation: the provision of credits or loans in cash and the provision of credits and the management of credits, the issuance of credit guarantees, transactions including transmission, transactions including currency, banknotes, coins, deposits, current or transaction accounts, payments, cheques and other payment instruments, transactions relating to shares, shares in undertakings or joint commitments, the management of investment funds, insurance agents and intermediaries. The expected financial implications: the revenue side of the budget – €35 million for the introduction of the tax, the expenditure side – the estimated amount to be paid by the public treasury is €230,000. Given the time in which we are, and according to the legislation that has recently been adopted in our country following a rapid and urgent procedure – I am also thinking here in connection with banking and the law on bad banks – the introduction of the tax would have further affected banks since the crisis, as well as the stock exchange houses which have fallen by 90% in recent years, and the companies for the management of funds whose turnover has been reduced by half. However, in order not to say that there is only a possible political opposition by the opposition Member, I would like to present the public's attitude in relation to the proposal. The Association of Investment Fund Management Companies estimates that the introduction of the tax would have a very serious impact on their industry, which is not the cause of the financial crisis. Since the management of EU investment funds is liberalised, the introduction of a tax would, in their view, result in the transfer of the management of investment funds to other European Union countries. The Association noted that the imposition of a tax on the one hand would have an impact on smaller savings in mutual funds and, on the other hand, management companies would probably cease to operate or move it abroad. The Union of Slovenian Consumers is of the opinion that there is a risk that most financial service providers will fully pass the cost of financial services tax on consumers. They stated in their statement that the costs of payment services are already so high today that many people are having difficulty affording them. For example, more expensive positions would affect the poorest and exacerbate financial exclusion. A higher tax burden could further undermine lending and at the same time deter people from long-term savings. The Bank of Slovenia also submitted an opinion that the current economic situation was inappropriate for the additional burden on banks. Banks are already specifically charged with a balance sheet tax. There is a risk that the additional tax burden will be passed on to financial service users or that the activity of banks will be reduced due to higher costs. Taxes may also have a negative impact on the international competitiveness of Slovenian banks. Mr Marko Kranjec, in conjunction with this bill's proposal and with the proposal for a bill on the balance sheet tax, said that this was a complete professional disaster. With regard to the proposed Financial Services Tax Act, the Governor fears that the idea of this tax is taken from the thinking in Western Europe, where investment banks have been very intensively financing derivatives. This tax would increase costs according to Kranjč's words, as banks would go to prices. If they do not put it in prices, their profits will be reduced, which is already negative, and this would make the situation of banks significantly worse. So much for the response of the professional public. At this point, I believe that this amendment of the law is not suitable for further consideration and that it would be more appropriate to examine and prepare the matter when the general situation in the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the general situation in the Republic of Slovenia, is ripe for it. It's not like that today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin, get ready, Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I think we're always doing things too late. We're always on time for at least a few years. If you remember, a few years ago, no one had ever talked about letting the economy breathe. Today we will be Members of the Brdo pri Kranj, where the economy will top, and some architects from bureaucratic and over-taxed Slovenia will be very much affected by how the economy needs to be unloaded. Too late. Our economy is suffocating and we will soon no longer revive it. It'll take five to ten years. The same is true of the financial transaction tax. We are dealing with three stakeholders: the country, the population and the economy. What are we gonna do? While the country will receive a few more incomes in order to be able to carry out its function more or less economically, the population will be even more impoverished and the economy will be even more impoverished. The economy is also divided into the primary sector, namely production, secondary and tertiary, where financial and other services belong. The measure is completely wrong and follows only one objective: how to fill the state cash register. Look, we won't have anyone to take anymore. We understand! This is a measure that shows that we always follow the line of least resistance or the easiest route. The easiest thing for those who have been assigned to manage the country is to raise the tax. What if we did something else? To increase economic activity, there will be more tax payers. By raising taxes, we reduce the circle of those who are able to pay taxes. I don't know if we live in the same country. In Slovenia, I see those who are capable of leaving Slovenia, both individuals and businesses. Why are we surprised if a successful athlete goes to Monaco? Here we would create such conditions that foreign athletes and foreign businessmen would come to Slovenia. Here we make a tax-friendly country, a kind of tax haven, not a tax hell. With this measure, we are only pouring a little more petrol into this tax hell. This is unnecessary, in the long run harmful, and in the short term it will fill up the cash register somewhat. Therefore, I believe that if we are serious about making Slovenia more economically friendly to make Slovenia an economically successful country, then we should abandon the intention to introduce this tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor. I guess you won't have any more time in SD. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, you are, but next. Here you go, then we'll see.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Let us be aware that the cost of one bet today is already one school meal. For the rental apartment that I have, I pay 6 to 7 bills a month – times 12 months is 70 places per euro and a half. Consider the cost for a young family or elderly pensioners living in such homes. I think that with the action "each account counts" in the state budget we would gain a lot more money on the basis of the payment of the service we receive in a restaurant, in a hairdresser and elsewhere. I suggest to the government that you reconsider and prepare a new measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u121	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Just Bevk's turn. But you have very little time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Such taxes are not introduced at the time of crisis, nor are they introduced at the level of individual countries, but if so, a tax on financial transactions should be introduced at the level of the European Union as a whole, and it is probably not a coincidence that some strongly resist this. My colleagues have already said how we are going to burden the poorest part of our society. Today, however, prominent ministers in the previous term have often said to the Government: "Create new jobs and the money will also come into the state budget." You do that, Mr. Minister. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u124	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. And on my part, a nice greeting to everyone who's in the hall. I have a more question than a debate. Above all, I would like to know whether this tax will actually be a tax on financial services to which financial institutions will be liable. Personally, I do not think this will be the case, but that these financial institutions will translate their obligations into individuals, legal persons or natural persons. Here I am most concerned that the population will pay the most – these are older people, pensioners – who are not used to financial transactions in some other forms, but with rates that are actually the biggest cost in financial transactions. That is why I would like to receive an answer that belongs to the government, including this reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mrs. Patricia Shulin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u126	President, thank you for your word. This new tax on financial services is taxed on the financial sector, which is not burdened by taxes as is the economic sector. As far as bets or bets are concerned, I think these commissions are a problem. We know that the fees on the bills are very high. For some stores from 0.39 euros to the highest commission in the bank, I think about 2.30. Therefore, as users of banking services when paying the bills, we can also choose where to pay the bills. On the proposal of this law, we can also look at the possibility that we will also think about banks, which is already happening — as far as I am listening to you — so that perhaps these commissions will be reduced in some banks. Our citizens, who are unable to afford the commission, are already going directly to suppliers, where a bill can be paid and no commission charged. I also know that in our country some municipalities already operate municipal cash registers where citizens have the possibility to pay their bills without commission. Thus, it is possible to look at this proposal from several sides. In view of today's debate, I am also of the opinion, which will also happen in the procedure followed by this law, so that some improvements may be considered and Members' concerns regarding the proposal of this law will also be examined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Minister Janez Šušteršič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u128	Nicely greeted! First of all, I would say that we should be careful when we talk about professional institutions and the public. I think that this term "interested public" is much closer to describing those who have the most comments on this tax. However, they could simply be called "interest groups" because any tax we propose to introduce or increase will be announced by those who will be burdened by this tax. In view of the fact that banks are being advertised, that the Association of Banks, stockbrokers and so on are also being advertised, they obviously do not assess that they will be able to fully transfer this tax to the users of their services in such a way that they, the financial intermediaries, will not feel it. Because if they could think or ask as elegantly as you think or ask, they would not really be affected by this tax, and they would probably not resist much. The problem is that those who carry out an activity and are experts for their activities — which does not mean that they are tax experts — are, of course, looking from their point of view, where each tax is potentially harmful. I would be most pleased if I didn't have to propose any tax increases, but this is simply not going to work, for reasons that I think we all know. As far as administration costs are concerned. These administration costs will be borne by those who are taxable, and these are those who provide these services. Therefore, I find it somewhat unusual that representatives of small businesses and craftsmen have made this argument because they will not have these costs – the costs will be borne by banks and those providing financial services. It could be a small business in a certain case, but there aren't many in my opinion. These costs will be no different than those of others in the economy, for example, all taxpayers for value added tax already have today. The value added tax liability must submit a monthly, three-monthly or six-monthly invoice of all invoices issued, determine the value added tax, calculate the amount it has paid and send it to the Tax Administration, and then check if it is not in their information system that this payment has been lost, misconceived or similar. Now the banks will do the same for the commissions they charge. So they're going to be as administratively charged as the others. In this I do not see any particular problem, rather I would say that it is a less discriminatory treatment than it was before, or as it is today. As far as overcoming is concerned, let me explain. Every tax you tax on traffic and the taxes you tax on income raises the issue of prevalence. Someone pays this tax in the end. It is paid in different shares by those who are the debtors and those who are the buyers or consumers of that service or the taxable product, depending on how many negotiating options, the possibility of adjustment, the choice of other services and so on. Even if income were raised, some would have passed this tax on to the one who pays the income. I am sure that a number of those who are taxed with a 50% income rate over the new year – which was somehow an idea that virtually all the parties in this Parliament eventually supported in one way or another – have passed on to the company that it employs, because they are people who often have very high incomes and have an appropriate opportunity to negotiate, but on many occasions the owners of those same companies that they employ. This issue of pervasiveness occurs everywhere. We even have rules, for example, when we propose and the government accepts to adapt excise duty to petrol, this is automatically transferred to the price because it is a price model. There is no automatic transmission here, but we cannot prevent it – we cannot ban banks from adjusting the costs of services. As has already been said, these costs are relatively low in these services used by ordinary people – earlier the Member spoke of the euro and half at the post office. Where I pay the bills – but it is true that I use the computer – is 35 cents. Last time I found out there was a little bit less of each other, and I'm not trading banks for three cents. I may replace her if she's in even more trouble than she already has, but anyway, that's very little, and I can adapt. When I was a student and a young family at the same time, we did exactly that; we went to pay the bills directly to the supplier. I don't mean to say that it's something that I think is nice, that it's good, but there's a possibility that there's a lot of adjustments. Sometimes it's not easy and it can be painful for someone. As previously stated, there is 6.5 tax in 35 cents, and even if it is fully priced, there is no very high additional cost. As far as the issue of the financial sector or capital markets is concerned. We have also received a warning from management companies — perhaps slightly more justified than others. We will examine this because it is actually a different form, and this has also been summed up by Members. However, another thing about capital markets is that we do not avoid, as has been seen, taxation of financial transactions in capital markets, with shares and so on, but we want this to be introduced in at least one larger round of countries in the European Union, because there is a much greater possibility of moving to other countries. As you know, we have been in the first round of countries that have supported the proposal for enhanced cooperation in this area, and we want to be present here – but we have decided not to go alone at this risk that only in the area of one small country where the internal financial market is very poorly developed, we have introduced this in the way proposed; the whole transaction is taxed with some supplement. I think these are the main questions that have been. Even with regard to the cascade effect. We are, in assessing the effects of this tax, the publicly available data on the amount of so-called works, of all fees charged. This number is 500 million data, then 540 is some estimate of how much more is not included in this data, all of it. This is close to half of the bank's income; what they create with interest rates is slightly more than that, but it's proportional. Thus, there are some great opportunities for all of this income to be eliminated and created on interest rates — virtually a few of them should be doubled. I don't think they're going to do that. As far as the cascade effect is concerned, this is very difficult to see from this data — how important it is and how important it is. But we also agree to help us evaluate this. In principle, this argument, like any other principled argument, is worth listening to, but this needs to be documented. Finally, we may find that the extent of this is so small that it does not present any serious problem. At least for the time being, we are assessing that this is the case and that there are several ways of adapting here as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The list of reported debaters is so exhaustive. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask if anyone wishes to discuss the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly on the basis of paragraph 1 of Article 71 of the Rules of Procedure. I'm opening the list. Please sign up. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u130	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Indeed, it is a bizarre measure, as it is said at home — a tax on bills. In fact, this law introduces a tax on bills that will be most taxed by the weakest part of our society. It will also tax pensioners, who do not use electronic banking services very often and mass, but pay post office bills which charge the highest fees for bills. This somehow proves that the burden of the crisis will be borne by the poorest in this country. See, on 1 October 2009, the delegation of the largest opposition party then led by President Janez Janša visited Pomurje. At that time, the president of the biggest opposition party said in 2009, saying, "The best social policy is the one that creates new jobs, so the key question is how to create new jobs." When we discussed pension legislation in the previous term before the referendum – at the time this discussion was the hottest – it was written on the SDS website that the government did nothing to ensure and create new jobs. Mr. Minister, tell us how you're going to create these new jobs. I know you weren't very active in politics in the previous term, but your superior chief was the leader of the opposition, and today he is the Prime Minister of the Government. How will you and the ministerial team provide these necessary jobs in this country, but if we have consistently listened to the mantra in the previous term, that new jobs should be opened and that additional resources should be provided for the state budget and for the development of the country. Or the government is planning any more ambitious measures to open up new jobs, not to impose taxes on depositors and burden the weakest class of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Just Bevk. You are well aware that the Minister cannot give you this answer at this time. I'm closing the debate. The proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration will be decided in the framework of the vote, which is tomorrow, 15 minutes after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. Procedurally, Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I may have partially abused the rules of procedure, but in fact, the Minister holds that he will be able to answer this question at the next meeting when we have a second-reading marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u133	That's for sure. You probably wanted her to answer you at this point, which is not an option. So, like I said, I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, that is, firstly, a proposal for a law on amendments to the law on value added tax. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. With regard to this bill, 42 Members and Members of Parliament, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, this is Minister Janez Šušteršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u134	Your Honor! As you may have seen in previous tax measures that have been dealt with, we have followed a general logic in proposing tax measures, which we would have taken in particular to broaden the foundations and eliminate certain exemptions in the tax system, or to reduce them where we felt that there were not many legitimate reasons for this. With this, we wanted to avoid some more general measures that would generally burden the economy or people, and we were looking for those areas in the tax system where it is possible to impose certain measures on those who are not yet burdened, such as financial services or commissions for their payment, or, say, where they are burdened, but have some reliefs, as we said earlier on student work and so forth. Let me add that, as has been said in the presentation of the budget, we have thus proposed measures that, as a whole, are worth, or are expected to bring some 300 million additional euros into the state budget next year. When we looked at the value added tax system, we found that there were a lot of services and goods in this system taxed at a lower tax rate, with a reduced tax rate of 8.5% and not a general rate of 20%, so we made a selection and asked ourselves what could be justified and what might not be justified. In doing so, I stress that this is a reflection in a time of crisis. When there is no crisis, it seems that every relief is justified because for each relief there will be someone who will say that he is serving a good purpose, and for every good purpose there will be someone who will say that this purpose is really good, and for every such purpose there will be someone who will also report it to the media and defend it further. In the field of expenditure, too, we took a lot of unpleasant measures in the spring, where we said that some things that seemed normal at a time when there was a lot of money in the state budget and did not have to be owed by high interest rates for large amounts, perhaps justifiable, and today it is difficult to defend them. In the area of value added tax, we have a general principle that lower rates of taxation on things that are essential to life or that have a social purpose. If you go to look at the arrangements across different European countries, you will find a lot of things in this lower tax rate. The directive on this issue is written widely enough to satisfy many different stakeholders in many different countries where different stakeholders are distinctly strong. At a time when these Directives were adopted, or sooner or perhaps later, they were able to exercise their interest, even when it could not be justified by two basic principles: the urgent needs of life or some social reasons. In the end, we have come up with a set of several products and services for which we propose to move the general value added tax rate from a reduced tax rate to taxation. I could have divided them into four groups. The first group is pet food. Here, unfortunately – I have four pets – I find it difficult to say that this is an emergency for people. Another thing is newspapers and magazines, where it is difficult to say that there is an urgent need for life, even though the media are sure to play an important role in this society. I think that anyone who is a member of this society plays an important role, and by this logic, no one would deserve relief or anyone would. Then there were no effects on the reduction of the grey economy: window cleaning, use of sports facilities, hairdressing services, including the supply of pots and seedlings. Then it's the kind of thing that I would mention in the end and it's officially called public hygiene services, but it's mostly about waste management services that we all pay for. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] for some general increase in the rates for the euro or two in each household. [[...]] This is some balanced contribution virtually everyone makes to solving the economic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u135	Thank you very much. In the context of the presentations of the views of the groups of Members, I give the floor to Mr Michael Prevc to present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u136	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have also reached the beginning of the consideration of the law, which has raised the most dust in recent months – raising some lower rates of value added tax to the general level. As we understand in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, a coalition has gone to amend this law in order to review the whole set of things that we tax at a lower rate and in other countries such special treatment has not been established. In this way, some fresh funds could be obtained from certain budget items. Later, it became apparent that the preferences or perceptions of individual coalition parties on what should be taxed at a lower or general level are very different. If I speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we are looking at the matter a little wider. So not so much in the direction of the individual raise as it means for the budget, but what it means for the final payer and also for the individual sector. Of all the suggestions in the marriage, there will be a direct rise in the tax on newspapers or periodical publications. Only very few countries have such publications taxed at higher rates, while quite a few countries that completely exclude this industry from taxation and thus help it. Slovenian printing is not in an enviable state. In the last decade, literature has practically halved in many newspapers. Given the crisis we are in, it would be very difficult to pass the increase on to the final buyer. I would even like to say that people would seriously consider if it wasn't one of the things that they could give up at the time of the increase in subscriptions to the bills. It's an instantaneous psychology. Regardless of what we think about the objectivity of any newspaper, we do live in a democratic country where freedom of expression applies. The country must promote as much information as possible for citizens and not further restrict them. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that there will be changes in the media industry, in one way or another, there will be changes to be made, there will be strategic partners, there will be some consolidation, there will be different approaches. With the tax rise, all of this would probably be greatly accelerated, but collateral damage would probably be quite large — a strong reduction in diversity, less content, lower quality, and so forth. The financial impact would certainly be lower than expected. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have constantly drawn attention to these concerns and to the meaning of this measure. It is true that we have not come together, so in the Slovenian People's Party we still oppose this measure in the field of media. The second thing is to increase the public hygiene tax. The biggest factor here is utilities. There is also the financial impact of this law. While it is true that most countries in this segment do not have an established lower rate of taxation. But we have another problem. The government or community of municipal services prices simply cannot hold on to such low levels. The new year promises the release of a regulation on price methodology for the calculation of municipal services, which would coincide with a higher tax on time. There are even higher environmental benefits here. The amounts at the counters to be received by households in the following year could be shocking. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will take this solution very seriously – a basic service that everyone needs. In practice, it cannot be avoided and therefore the lower rate of taxation is likely to make sense. That's exactly what's interesting. The lift for newspapers and other publications raised huge amounts of dust, which is logical and understandable on the one hand. However, on the other hand, this led to a completely oblivious and almost unobserved rise in municipal services, affecting virtually every household, irrespective of its social status. If I stop even higher taxation of hairdressing services and flowering industries – this is a direct intervention in a particular business segment. In the case of hairdressers, a basic activity will have a much greater sense of crisis when tax rises. In summary, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we agreed that the amendment of the law continues the procedure in the National Assembly, although unfortunately the entire content of this law has never been harmonised by the coalition. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we have agreed to support the law at first reading, but, as has already been said, there will be changes in the second reading. You can only end up with an item, two items or three, which is still better than nothing. Budgets for the next two years shall provide for certain revenue under this Act. If there are changes, we will have to find a different source, and this is already a matter of further discussions and coordination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Plevčak, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u138	Hello again, and thank you for your word. VAT is now one of the most important and widespread taxes in the European Union and elsewhere in the world, as is already evident in the daily meeting of individuals with it, as it is paid at all levels of transport and sales of goods and services. Since this is a very important tax – specifically in the Republic of Slovenia, it represents an 8% of GDP inflow – the European Union also tends to unify this tax. Therefore, a European directive setting a minimum VAT rate of 5% and a minimum general VAT rate of 15% was adopted. For refreshment – the lowest VAT is 8.5% and 20%. On the basis of the balance of public finances or the inflow to the budget, the government has proposed to narrow down the selection of goods and services that are subject to a lower VAT rate today. This move is interpreted by arguing that the lower VAT rate is set for a very wide range of goods and that the lower rate represents indirect subsidisation of economic operators. Let me begin by explaining that the DeSUS Group was informed of this intention of the government. We were also familiar with different proposals that we have before us. I must point out, however, that we have had in DeSUS all the time comments and concerns about raising lower VAT rates, even at this moment the content of this novel is not acceptable to us. We have reservations about raising VAT for newspapers, for the use of sports facilities, and especially for public hygiene services. It is true that changes are possible during the legislative process. We don't deny it. The question is whether, simply put such content into further consideration or even reject it at this first stage. For no one denies to the Government that the situation is a crisis, that the budget needs to be balanced. But is this the right way? See, the lower VAT rate is prescribed for a certain reason, it is a matter of goods which represent the basic essential necessities of life of each individual whose country is obliged to provide to the individual. Here I do not mean only the bare provision, regardless of the price, the state is obliged to provide them in a way that is accessible to everyone, I stress to everyone – including those who are socially weak. In the DeSUS Group, we stress that VAT is exactly the tax that touches each individual. In doing so, it should be pointed out that VAT is the most burdensome of the social weakest strata with the lowest income. Why? Simple. VAT is paid at all levels of transport and goods sales. A wealthier part of their income may be devoted to saving, and this part of their income is not burdened by this tax. In the meantime, the poorest layer cannot save at all, but it is forced to spend its income on bare survival. Since VAT is paid practically from every good, their total income is taxed by this tax. With us, the social injustice of VAT only partially alleviates the level of 8.5% for certain vital necessities of life. On the other hand, the question of the eligibility of the value added tax is also raised from a completely financial point of view: will the budgeting of this measure be sufficient? The government has recently argued that higher taxation of goods is seen as an extreme option, so the submission of this proposal constitutes an extreme point. Not according to our estimate. It is true that raising VAT in a hypothetical way brings more money into the budget register, but it is necessary to know that this can affect lower consumption, the larger black market and the avoidance of VAT payments, which would make the inflow less. As has already been pointed out, by this time our parliamentary group has not convinced the Government's arguments, and we are therefore more inclined to reject the proposal. However, we will closely monitor the debate and arguments both for and against the rise in value added tax and on this basis shape our final position.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! Before us, before the National Assembly, especially before the coalition and before the Government and Minister of Finance Dr. Šuštersič, it is a difficult task – to close the financial budget or budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014. We are all experts in the field of budgetary expenditure, and we are less than enough time to increase revenue. While we were preparing the electoral programme, we were aware of the economic crisis, but we were convinced, given the economic developments in European countries, that the crisis was nearing its conclusion. In 2011, economic activity in Slovenia broke down again, gross domestic product fell again, we recorded a reduction of two-tenths of a percentage point, and we also faced unsuspecting economic developments in most of the Member States of the European Union. The prospects for economic activity in our most important trading partners have also deteriorated significantly in recent months. For the euro area, the European Commission has announced this year a reduction in gross domestic product resulting from the poor mood of businesses and consumers and from uncertainty in financial markets. OMAR forecasts regarding economic growth in 2013, when GDP growth will even be negative, are worrying. Despite poor prospects, we need to address the excessive public deficit by 2013 in line with the European Union's requirements, thus reducing it below 3% of GDP. The European Commission assesses whether an individual country which is in the middle of an excessive deficit process, i.e. Slovenia, has taken effective measures to remedy it in an efficient and sustainable manner. In order to achieve these objectives, Slovenia cannot avoid seeking additional tax resources despite a number of measures to revive the economy. One option is to increase tax rates for certain commodity groups and for certain services. The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act proposes an increase in the tax rate from the current 8.5 per cent to the higher tax rate, i.e. 20 per cent for the following goods and services: food for pets, newspapers, magazines and other periodical publications, cleaning of windows and private households, use of sports facilities, public hygiene services, hairdressing services, delivery of pots, seedlings and cut flowers. With realisation, the implementation of this bill would result in an additional inflow of €70 million to the state budget in 2013. In the New Slovenia Group, we are extremely reserved for these proposals – let me mention that the party's executive committee has decided not to support this law. We are particularly sensitive and opposed to raising the VAT rate on public hygiene services. I had just calculated that some microbusiness or more precisely an auto-mechanical workshop that employs three people would pay for the disposal of waste – we know what kind of waste is there – about 20 euros per month more. Someone will say that this is no money – but it does not go into the concept that we have set ourselves to create the best development environment in the economy. I also met several people in my field activities, in my office, with representatives of family companies growing pots, orchards and so on. These are successful family companies. Recently, the rate of tax on their goods has been reduced, and now we want to raise this rate again. However, despite all of this, we believe that during the parliamentary debate we will find an optimal solution, one that will be good for Slovenia, so in the New Slovenia Group we believe that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Added Value Tax Act is still suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-20.ana.u141	Thank you very much. In accordance with the agreement of the College of the President of the National Assembly, I interrupt the 6th item of the agenda. I also interrupt the 20th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed tomorrow at 9 p.m. on 15 November. Thank you very much.
