ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the continuation of the sixth session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mag. Melita Zupevc, mag. Lejla Hercegovac by 12 o'clock, Dr. László Göncz after 20 o'clock. I welcome everyone here. We're going to six. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on personal assistance within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 5,000 voters and voters. With regard to this proposal, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Magi Committee. Jani Jenko for further explanation of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. It's a nice greeting for everyone! At its 5th session, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the proposal for a Personal Assistance Act submitted by more than 5,000 voters to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption under Article 88 of the Constitution. Representatives of the proponents Klaudidi Porat and Elena Pecarič, representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and representative of the State Council participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects. The Law-Legal Service also made specific comments to the individual article of the bill when commenting on the legal system. At the meeting of the Committee, their representative presented the introductory comments and considered that the proposal for a law should be updated both legally and in terms of clarity and certainty of the regulatory regime. She warned that the bill was incomplete, which could also cause implementing problems. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Government, which does not support the bill and proposes to the National Assembly not to adopt it. In its opinion presented by a representative of the Council of State to the Committee on Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, the Commission adopted a strong positive position on the issue of the need for legal regulation of the right to personal assistance, as it sees it as an important element of social policy, which requires early legal regulation. On the appropriateness of the content of the proposed law under consideration, however, the opinions of the members of the Commission were shared. As additional material, the members and members of the Committee received a number of comments and suggestions from interested public and written support for the draft law. During the course of business, qualified applicants have not tabled any amendments. At the beginning of the hearing, a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group stressed that they support the efforts of persons with disabilities to improve their lives in their parliamentary group as well as in the coalition. They also appreciate their efforts with regard to the proposal, which is in the parliamentary procedure, but in the light of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Council of State, the Government and also the Ombudsman, which points out some of the inconsistencies and shortcomings of the law submitted, consider that it is not appropriate for further consideration. At the same time, it is necessary to instruct the Government to prepare a more appropriate law by the end of 2012, which will be in line with all actors and also between disability organisations. He therefore proposed a decision on the basis of Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure to conclude that the draft law was not suitable for further consideration. In addition, a representative of the positive Slovenia Group and the representative of the Social Democrats Group proposed not to reject the bill, but rather to accompany it to one of the future meetings and the competent ministry, together with the proposers, to prepare amendments on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. In the debate on the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, the representatives of the motions pointed out that this bill has been in preparation for years and has been prepared on a proposal from the Ministry. The bill is harmonised with users and users are from different disability organisations. They said that, on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Services, they were preparing proposals for amendments, that much had already been done, so they agreed to postpone where necessary improvements would be made with the competent ministry. The Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs said that they disagreed with some of the proposed solutions, but that personal assistance was already being financed through the Programme and through the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations. He stressed that system regulation was certainly necessary, so he agreed with the proposal to draw up by the new year a proposal for a law that must be harmonised, as many disability organisations disagreed with the proposal. Proponents of the bill considered that it was right that the law should remain in the procedure, that the area should be regulated, so they did not support the proposal on the inappropriateness of the bill, but considered that they would give the law the opportunity to correct and harmonise itself further by postponement. Following the discussion, the Committee agreed that the proposal for a Personal Assistance Act was not suitable for further consideration. Finally, the Committee decided to propose to the Government that by the end of the year a harmonised proposal for a Personal Assistance Act should be drawn up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the draft law on the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of Ms Elena Pečarič's mother's working body, which I welcome very well in the National Assembly, as well as to the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u4	Hello, Members and Members of Parliament, and also those who are watching us now on television. Especially you. Leave hope to you who enter, you would say, in this temple. Our children sang about hope in front of our hall. We had it almost to the end, so we embarked on this adventure, which was not easy, but after years of fighting and preventing these and those political options, it was not difficult for us either. Let's cut to the chase. As a joke to us, Members of the coalition on the committee rejected the proposal for a law on personal assistance with virtually no arguments, since you were almost all quiet, conscience and shame, supported by more than 7,000 voters and voters through the people's initiative. Well, that obviously means a lot to you, too. We have not been given the opportunity to present it thoroughly on the committee at all. We have not been given the opportunity to table the amendments that we have written together or on the proposal of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. You immediately tactically took our word and killed the law. You weren't prepared to hear our repeated requests for marriage with the Ministry to be properly completed, but you abused your power, and I will use this word that has given you the people to crush this unique initiative in the mud. You stole our future, our right to a decent and independent life. Many young people have been sentenced to living in nursing homes, dying of meals and social death. You have also trampled on the United Nations Convention, Article 19, which speaks of personal assistance, signed, ratified in 2008. Members of the coalition voted on the order of Minister Visiak to reject the law, even though you did not know why. We know why – it is the FIHO funds, the lottery money of Slovenia, which we have foreseen for co-financing and is also used for such programmes of personal assistance. The funds that are earmarked, outside the budget, beyond any serious control, are in the hands of a handful of disabled officials, whom I will call the "disability mafia" here in public. Assets that are not transparently used are inadvertent and are often used to buy wrong things. So what's the problem? They would take power and finance from so-called representatives of disability organisations, who live luxury lives and buy real estate with these funds and leave the membership with bits, just so much so that they don't "screw". We're just an object of trade in this country. The law was written on the basis of more than 16 years of experience in the exercise of personal assistance and intended to ensure the right to personal assistance to a wider range of beneficiaries, as is the case with the existing programme. He wanted to ensure the right of the most handicapped, those who are dependent on the daily foreign aid to the intellectual and movementally disabled. So it's not true that we've ruled out any group of people. This would be the first law to grant the right directly to the user and he would choose a suitable contractor. We are not talking about disability organisations in the proposal, but we are talking about contractors. We would reverse the existing practice where fundamental human rights are realized through societies that have the power to condition, discipline and take away services. But this would probably be a real revolution, as disabled officials would have run out of funds for their dirty business, and especially probably the policy that comes from this black lottery fund of Slovenia. It was therefore necessary to invent some factions that the law did not have the appropriate financial resources, which is a complete fabrication, because if they had the opportunity, they would have proved it exactly. Our proposal would be far more effective and financially sustainable than this proposal from the Ministry under the influence of different lobbyists, not least from the NSIOS, which does not officially exist, as well as for information, which was deleted from Apes in 2010. But of course you don't want to know anything about it. We should be pleased to see the Ministry draw up a new proposal. We're afraid of what they're going to lose. We fear that personal assistance will be regarded as a social transfer, which means that all of our assets or property will be taken away. It saddens us that many of you have listened to the crowding of disabled organisations and that this important step in the right direction follows. I still hope and I wish that maybe someone among you would be able to vote differently than he was told, because I think that would be the right move and I hope that you are aware of what you are doing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs Elena Caverič, for presenting the position. I give the floor to the representative of the Government or the representative of the Government of Patricia Chular, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, for an introductory presentation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u6	Madam President, honourable Members, thank you for the floor. The Government's position on the proposal for the Personal Assistance Act itself is that the proposal tabled by the Association for the Theory and Culture of Handicap, on behalf of 5,000 voters and voters, is not suitable for further consideration. At the outset, I would like to say that personal assistants today have their own solution, that this is not a systemic solution, but a software solution. The Ministry of Labour, together with the co-financing of FIHO funds, will ensure the implementation of the Assistant/Assistent Programme, and then other programmes in the field of social affairs with which personal assistants are provided. The bill represents a systemic solution. For this systemic solution, the Ministry has already approached the drafting of a bill in the past. The proposal by the proposer summarises to a large extent the proposal already prepared by the Ministry with the professional and interested public. However, there are differences that we consider important and so great that this proposal is not suitable for further consideration. And these differences are three. Funding. While the proposal itself sets out funding sources, it does not specify exactly how self-financing will take place. The proposal by the proposer sets out a new procedure for the exercise of the right to personal assistance and the most important distinction comes from the beneficiary point. The proposal itself foresees that the beneficiaries are only severely affected and excludes deaf, blind and mentally affected persons. According to our estimates, there are approximately 500 beneficiaries in the first group covered by the proposal and a thousand 500 in the second group. It is also likely that this proposal did not receive support from the National Council of Disabled Organisations, because it was prepared without the participation of the entire professional as well as the interested public. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that this government has an interest, that it is aware of the problem and has also entered into its coalition contract as a obligation to resolve personal assistance with the law. That is why we fully agree and accept with all consciousness the decision of the Committee and the Ombudsman to prepare a law involving both the professional and the public concerned. I would like to point out that personal assistants are today programmed and that we accept that we will be preparing the bill with all interested parties by the end of this year. We advocate a law on personal assistance that will deal properly with all beneficiaries, regardless of their age or type of disability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I politely ask for order in the hall! At the same time, I would ask the representatives of the Government to sit in the premises where individual ministries are located so that there will be no problems in this direction. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. Mag. Jana Jenko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello again! The parent working body which examined the proposal for the Personal Assistance Act assessed the proposal as inappropriate for further consideration and stopped further consideration at this point. The latter does not mean that we will not be dealing with personal assistance, as a decision has also been taken to propose to the Government that by the end of the year it prepares a comprehensive and coordinated bill with users. The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners supports both decisions of the parent working body, as our Members and Members of the Group will also assess that the proposed law is still quite incomplete, so that the maintenance of the law in the procedure and consequently the necessary amendments to the law would not produce the desired results in terms of the system-wide regulation of this area, which the disabled clearly deserve. In view of the fact that the draft of this law is already ready and that the coalition agreement also provides for the establishment of personal assistance, in the DeSUS Group, we have assessed that the Government, as proposed in today's decision, will take a step forward and regulate this area. In our Group of Members, we are also convinced that personal assistance should be dealt with in relation to other social policies, as the basic purpose of assistance through personal assistance is to reach different vulnerable groups. In parallel with the consideration of this area, the issue of ensuring permanent care for the elderly also opens up, which also increasingly require a certain amount of such daily assistance. Therefore, we believe that Members and Members of our Group should approach the establishment of a system of long-term care as soon as possible. We will not support the proposed law in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. However, we will closely monitor the continuation of activities in order to obtain as soon as possible comprehensive care arrangements for people who need long-term assistance due to illness, injury or age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group and Mrs Iva Dimic have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! New Slovenia supports the regulation of long-term care and personal assistance for persons with disabilities. We have already written in our electoral programme that we will advocate the development of programmes that will allow people with disabilities to stay outside institutions. Personal assistance is important for people with disabilities, as it means 24-hour physical assistance to people with disabilities in things they cannot do on their own. We have already committed all coalition parties to this in the Coalition Treaty on Cooperation in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the mandate of 2012-2015. However, the adoption of an appropriate law on personal assistance for persons with disabilities is placed among the priorities of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and persons with disabilities. The Ministry must draw up a proposal that will be professionally and legally appropriate, taking into account the interests and needs of the personal assistance of all persons with disabilities, while also taking into account the current financial and economic situation in the country. In the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, a company with a YHD and a group of 5 thousand voters and voters submitted a proposal for a law on personal assistance, which we are discussing today, which most closely sums up the proposal prepared by the working group at the Ministry. However, the maximum deviation of this proposed Personal Assistance Act is in the following areas: the question of who the beneficiaries are and the procedure for exercising the right and financing of personal assistance. At the same time, the bill tabled by the group of 5,000 voters and electorates is also legally and systematically flawed or incomplete. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Disabled Persons will therefore continue to provide funding for the Assistant/Assistent programme in the coming years. This will maintain at least the current scope of the implementation of personal assistance from public funds. In the New Slovenia Group, we call on the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Disabled Persons to draw up a proposal for a law on personal assistance and a law on long-term care and long-term insurance and to bring it into the legislative procedure as soon as possible. The new Slovenia will closely monitor whether the competent ministry will actually prepare a proposal for a law within the time limit set by the home committee and examine it thoroughly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we're talking about a human initiative. A few less than 7,000 citizens and citizens, with their signatures, have sent an appeal to the members of this National Assembly to legislate an extremely important legal substance, a law that we have adopted in Slovenia for more than a decade, and as a society we are still unable to bring to life. It's not about marriage. It's about people we leave behind as a society. That's not right. Today we are talking about a respectful or disrespectful attitude toward life.What is a personal assistant? It is one of the forms of organising community care, which, last but not least, follows the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities ratified by the National Assembly. This recognises the same right for all persons with disabilities living in the community and in the same way as others to decide and take effective and appropriate measures to enable them to fully enjoy this right and to fully participate in and participate in the community. It is about respect for fundamental principles such as respect for the dignity and independence of the user, freedom of choice, social inclusion in the community, individual treatment and equality of opportunity and accessibility. Have you ever wondered what the fate of a young man who opens up to him a field of endless possibilities in life, and his path crosses fate, becomes a tetraplegic? Have you ever wondered what his fate is in this country? Such a person depends on help 24 hours a day 365 days a year in basic tasks such as feeding, getting out of bed. Such a person cannot do the basic things of life alone, just as we can do, each one of us. Thank God, I'll say it. But today we decide whether we will give these people the opportunity and the opportunity to have the power in their hands, not at 17, 20 years of age, to land in retirement homes that are not intended for the lives of young people, but are intended for life in an age period, for the elderly. I had the case or the opportunity to perform personal assistance at the home of a man who, despite his disability, is a tetraplegic, preserving hope and faith in life and creating such wonderful art with a brush in his mouth. I was really touched. But this man had the opportunity and opportunity to decide for himself whether to go to a retirement home at 20 years of age or stay at home and enjoy a full life with the help of a personal assistant, according to his abilities and abilities. When some of you are making excuses today, both the Ministry's representatives and representatives of the government coalition, that the law does not provide in sufficient detail for funding, that it lays down a new procedure for the exercise of personal assistance and that not all beneficiaries should be covered. That is why I am asking you, and I call on you, so much so that you have learned the parliamentary procedure, that if we reject the decision of the parent labour body today, we can reopen the law at second reading or correct it to the extent that it is acceptable both to the government and to all other stakeholders. In the Group of Positive Slovenia, we have invited you to do this once. Today we invite you again. And I believe that we all agree together that we are obliged to do this.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, mag. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u14	All hailing, distinguished Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members! The Society for the Theory and Culture of Handicap has tabled a proposal for a law on personal assistance. The applicant refers to Article 19 of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which provides for the same choice of permanent residence, decision-making, where and with whom they will live without having to stay in a specific environment, access to various services at home and housing and other support services in the community. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support the efforts of the Association for the Theory and Culture of Handicap, which has so far enabled at least some of the disabled to make these improvements possible for their stay and for their daily activities. However, this is possible through civil society, public works, humanitarian organisations and calls for such activities. Personal assistants involved in activities to help people with disabilities also do not have permanent status, but only for a certain period of time. The Personal Assistance Act will systematically regulate this area, apply to all persons with disabilities and also include assistants with greater social security. The existing proposal of the law has been met with numerous concerns mainly by the Legislative and Legal Service, the State Council, some disability organisations and, above all, by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government’s view is that in the proposal of the law only disabled persons need personal assistance for at least 30 hours a week are beneficiaries. Disabled persons with the most severe sensory impairments that would require different assistance are excluded. The government is also concerned about funding. While the resources are listed in Article 25 of the Law, it is unclear how and by what criteria the resources from these resources would be redistributed for the purposes of personal assistance. This is also about FIHO funds. The government already had a long-term supply law in place to include the area of personal assistance. However, since long-term care is not yet available under the given circumstances, the Government agrees to prepare a separate law on personal assistance. Some of the highlights are from the Coalition Treaty: we will strengthen those programmes that support the development of social services that enable people to continue to live in their environment; in the field of disability protection, the Coalition will develop systems based on human rights, prevent discrimination and ensure equal opportunities and thus follow the guidelines of the European Strategy by 2020; the Coalition will seek to provide adequate and permanent resources for disability organisations to implement specific social programmes; and for this purpose, resources will also be allocated from the development of gambling; and finally, the Coalition will also advocate the establishment of a personal assistance system for persons with disabilities. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we listened to both the Hellenic Theory and Culture Society as well as the Legal and Legal Service and the Government. We are confident that we will only be able to reach an appropriate marriage with our collective strength and effort. Society's already done a lot of work, so it deserves all the credit. Now he's at the government to take care of the proper marriage. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, as well as throughout the coalition, we rejected the existing bill on the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, and we committed the Government to draft a new law on personal assistance by the end of 2012. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have already continued our activities with the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs of Mag. Andrej Visiak, who assured us that the Ministry is preparing a law on personal assistance that will be ready by the end of 2012. Therefore, all those who have already become involved in the proposed law are invited to continue their cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The text is by the Group of Social Democrats and Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u16	Good afternoon, very nice to meet you! We have also supported the efforts of the drafters of the Personal Assistance Act when dealing with the Social Democrats, because we believe that personal assistance is one of the important forms of community care to achieve independent and quality lives of people with disabilities and to exercise their rights. Personal assistance is still being implemented in Slovenia through various personal assistance programmes, which are project-funded. This mode of funding, as we all know from our own experience, is extremely unstable and uncertain, so the profession and users have for at least a decade been pointing out that there is a need for systemic regulation in this area. Social Democrats believe that the proposal for a Personal Assistance Act, which has been put into the legislative process by a group of more than 5,000 voters and voters, constitutes an appropriate basis for developing appropriate solutions for the exercise of personal assistance. For despite the long-standing promises and commitment to the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Government has not yet prepared a comprehensive regulation of this area. In the light of this, we expected the Social Democrats to constructively support the necessary additions to the draft Law on Personal Assistance, together with the drafters of the law, to produce an improved version, based on the comments it has made and which would in practice be feasible as soon as possible. We expected this in particular because, on the basis of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service, the bill-makers prepared extremely correct amendments which could only be adopted by the Committee and put into a further procedure. But no! The opposite has happened on the committee responsible. With the support of the ruling coalition, which, by means of procedural proposals, even tried to prevent a debate on the substantive solutions of the bill, the Government gave a negative opinion on the basis that they would prepare a harmonised proposal for a personal assistance law by the end of the year. So much effort, so much effort, so much coordination, so much expertise as has been put into drafting this law, has simply been rejected by the fact that it is not suitable for further consideration and that a new proposal prepared by the Government, of course, needs to be prepared. It has therefore become an irrelevant proposal for a decision prepared by the Social Democrats that the Government, together with the drafters of the law on the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, prepare a law that could go into further procedure. While the huge efforts of civil society have been completely ignored, which have been put into over a year and a half of coordination, the government has simply waved its hand, if, no, no, this is not good enough, we are going forward with our proposal, which will, of course, take into account the opinion of disabled societies, which we know are not speakers of target groups, but, above all, advocates of our own interests. The Personal Assistance Act refers to the personal rights of persons with disabilities, their personal right to decide, when and how they will live. We are saddened and concerned by the fact that in a democratic country that gives special care and protection to persons with disabilities in the Constitution, the laws proposed by persons with disabilities are so easily ignored and brought to the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. We can be really ashamed. To the logic of suppressing the democratic debate that the ruling coalition has shown on the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, we do not agree. Therefore, we will also vote against the conclusion at the meeting of the National Assembly that the proposal for a Personal Assistance Act is not suitable for further consideration, and that it is also in order to arrive at appropriate solutions as soon as possible to resolve the personal assistance of persons with disabilities who already have this right and who should receive it as a rule in the future, if their needs dictate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Gazette and the Mag. Truda Cinderella.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Prime Minister and representatives of the Government! In the introduction, I would like to point out that the content of the law itself relates to an important and sensitive issue of ensuring the rights of persons with disabilities to life in the community, their full involvement and participation in it. The Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code respects and appreciates the founders of this law, supports their efforts and supports all the time and effort required for this bill to be put into parliamentary procedure. The bill itself received comments from competent institutions, such as disabled companies, which did not participate in the formation of this law, by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the proposal of the law in terms of its consistency with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the legal and technical aspects and made a number of comments and warnings. The Ombudsman also found some shortcomings in the law. After studying the law, the Government and the Council of State also gave a negative opinion on the content of the law. The disadvantage is also that not all competent institutions, such as disabled companies, participated in the formation of the law. We do not want the representatives of YHD to feel incompetent, they certainly are, but in preparing their proposal, in both the process and the bill, they themselves have excluded other disability organisations. In view of all the above, it was found that the law was not suitable for further consideration and was a good basis for upgrading. Just because the marriage did not receive support does not mean that the disabled who benefited from personal assistance lost it. This will not happen because the Ministry of Employment through the Office of the Republic of Slovenia has called for a programme on the basis of which 250 jobs are envisaged in subsidised posts for the exercise of personal assistance. The Ministry is also planning the necessary funds and has already announced in due time a call to extend the implementation of the programme by two years. This means that work goes on and personal assistants continue to do so and do not stop, which is essential. The Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette does not support the draft Law on Personal Assistance, as it is not substantively appropriate for further consideration. When we do not support the law, this does not mean that we have destroyed the work of all those who have tried to design it, but we want all the shortcomings to be addressed and to be aligned with all the other stakeholders, that is to say with other organisations in the field of disability that have not yet cooperated and, of course, also with co-funders, that the financial structure will be clearer. Since the Law on Personal Assistance is very important and sensitive, we expect the Government to draw up an appropriate law by the end of 2012, which we will be very happy to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Slovenian People's Party's Group and by Mr Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear government representatives, everyone else present, colleagues and colleagues! We support the regulation of the rights of persons with disabilities in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and in accordance with our Constitution, and we hope that the Government will put into effect as soon as possible a law that will systematically and comprehensively regulate the rights of all persons with disabilities in need of personal assistance. The programme of personal assistance funded by the Ministry will continue to run for all 95 existing assistants, and in this time we will also adopt a new regime of personal assistance. Such a decision was also adopted by the home committee. Let me give you a few more reasons why we cannot support the law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. The rights of persons with disabilities, like all other rights, must be regulated in a coordinated and comprehensive manner. However, the Act releases groups of people with disabilities, such as persons with mental disabilities and even deaf and deaf. Personal assistants must also be regulated in a proper manner in relation to other forms of community care for persons with disabilities who already exist under social legislation. The bill therefore does not provide clear and comprehensive solutions and sufficient provisions to be feasible and is a more wish list. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has found legal and substantive inconsistencies in the law and inconsistencies and legally unacceptable provisions in all articles of the law. We certainly appreciate the efforts made by investors, since we rarely get a bill tabled with voter signatures if this is not even the only case in the longer term. Nevertheless, and despite the great pressures that we and we are still experiencing in dealing with this law, it is our duty to make a decision based on the content and not only on the purpose of the law or public pressure, even though it is a vulnerable group such as the disabled. In the parliamentary group, we are committed to finding a way, in line with the new situation, when we are becoming an increasingly ageing population, when more and more disabilities, especially at a time when we are facing a financial crisis, to develop a comprehensive new social strategy and to regulate the rights of people with disabilities and older people who also need assistance or assistance, in a comprehensive way, including with tax incentives for families, social legislation and the promotion of a number of self-help organisations, societies and other forms of appropriate neighbourly assistance. In view of the apparent unintended use of budgetary resources for disabled organisations, their unfair distribution and even the Taiwanese operation of individual influential disabled officials, we expect a thorough review by the relevant institutions. While we hope that the composition of the FIHO world will change something. Since the bill before us does not take these concerns into account, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group do not support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THAT IS THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE INCOME LAW, WITHINCLUDED PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Aleš Živkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u22	Dear President, honourable Members! The proposal for a law under consideration today is prepared on the basis of a decision of the Government of 5. 4. In 2012, which ordered the Ministry of Finance to amend the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act by including a transitional period for the determination of tax treatment of taxable agricultural subsidies in connection with the flat-rate taxation of agricultural activities on a tax basis in 2011 and 2012 in the amount of 50 % of the amounts actually paid, also to 2013. The decision followed the initiative of the public and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment to extend this tax advantage due mainly to the delay in the implementation of the new method of determining cadastral income in 2013, as well as to the expected changes in the amount and structure of the measures of the European Union's common agricultural policy, which will also be adopted in 2013, by at least one year. The draft law interferes with the transitional provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, which complements a single article, which is Article 15, which adds the year 2013 as the year of favourable tax treatment of agricultural subsidies. This is a nomotechnical and substantively small intervention in the Income Act, whose enforcement does not require the debtors, nor the tax authority to make specific adjustments to the conduct, and it is therefore proposed that the law be dealt with in a reduced procedure and that it also proposes a shorter period of application, the following day following publication in the Official Journal. It is also important to allow as soon as possible the initiation of the procedure for addressing other urgent amendments to the Income Act, which are already being prepared and should also enter into force no later than 1. 1. 2013 The bill under consideration today is inter-sectorally coordinated and in line with the Government's Law Service. The solution was also supported by the State Council. The law also received support from professional associations. No amendments were tabled to the law, and the Government therefore proposes to the National Assembly the adoption of legislation in the proposed content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u24	Madam Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At its 6th meeting, on 12 September this year, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered a proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act. The Government has submitted this law to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects. In its opinion, the Service notes that the proposed deadline of application departs from the general 15-day deadline and that there are no specific circumstances and reasons or need to depart from the general deadline. Within a set time limit, none of the qualified applicants tabled amendments to the draft law. In its opening statement at the meeting of the Committee, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained that the draft law introduces a solution whereby a transitional period of favourable tax treatment of taxable agricultural subsidies, which is extended to 50 % of the amounts actually paid in 2011 and 2012, is extended to 2013. As reasons for the proposed solution, he cited the general crisis, the introduction of a new method for determining cadastral income in 2013 and the expected changes in the size and structure of the European Union's common agricultural policy measures in 2013. The Secretary of State also stressed that this is a change that does not require the adjustment of the taxpayers to this amendment or the adjustment of the tax authority. This is also the reason why the Government proposes a short-term hearing and a shorter deadline. In the discussion on individual articles, the draft law expressed support for the bill in particular in terms of incentives for those engaged in agricultural and forestry activities in the country. In this regard, it was pointed out that 2013 will be a turning point from a tax perspective, as larger farms will for the first time switch to a income-finding system based on actual revenues and actual or standardised expenditure. In addition, a reform of the European Union's common agricultural policy will be launched in 2013, which will lead to a significant change in the amount and structure of direct payments. In accordance with Rule 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law on the working body, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes that the draft law amending the law on amendments and additions to the Income Act be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u25	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group and Mr Jožef Horvat have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! The new Income Act contains only one major amendment. The transitional period for the inclusion of agricultural subsidies in a tax base of 50 % of the amounts actually received, applicable for 2011 and 2012, is extended by this amendment to one more year, i.e. to 2013. With such a tax exemption, farmers in particular want to facilitate the transition to a new system of common agricultural policy measures, which is expected to result in significant changes in the amount and type of subsidies that individual farms will be able to implement. What are the public financial effects of the new Income Law? The tax base on income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities for 2013 will be reduced by around 30 % by 50 %. Taking into account data on the level of income generated by the cadastral income and actually paid agricultural subsidies in 2010, and taking into account the average effective rate of income for these events, around 10% of income in 2013 will be reduced by an estimated EUR 6 million, but these effects are difficult to assess, as they depend on the future changes in the cadastral income system and the new rules of the common agricultural policy of the European Union, which will be shown for the first time in practice in 2013. We are pleased to have broad support for the amendment of the Income Act and the New Slovenia Group also announces support for the amendment of the Income Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and Mr Aloji Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u28	Dear Chairman, Your Honor! The path of finding suitable solutions for taxation of income from agricultural policy measures and other state aid for so-called agricultural subsidies is long and from 2006 alone, i.e. from the last tax reform to today, agricultural subsidies and thus their beneficiaries have gone through some arrangements. Most of the solutions were considered transitional periods due mainly to the various causes of the economic crisis. The law under consideration is also of an extremely transitional nature. The proposed solution for 2013 is the same as in 2011 and will be valid in 2012, i.e. after the content, 50 % of the amount of taxable agricultural subsidies actually paid was included in the tax base of the agricultural subsidies. In fact, it is a kind of tax exemption in terms of tax law and tax policy. There are a number of arguments cited by the applicant which cannot be overlooked. As already mentioned by the chairman of the committee, 2013 is expected to be a turning point in tax terms. Farms, for the most part larger, will move into a income-finding system based on actual income and actual or standardised expenditure. In 2013, the implementation of the European Union's common agricultural policy reform will also be launched and we will face a revised structure of direct payments. The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia sees no reason for not supporting the novelties of the law. However, what happens in the adoption process, and perhaps at least in this law, is often resorting to so-called transitional solutions, even after the introduction to the state-of-the-art assessment states, I quote, "that one of the objectives of the tax reform is to provide a system that will allow the taxpayer a transparent and stable tax environment of employment". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Magi shall have the floor. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Once again, hello. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this solution in order to ensure that, at a time when farmers are becoming increasingly difficult to operate for various reasons: due to the change in the cadastral income system, due to the upcoming change in income or income from the European Union and also because the weather conditions do not give them the best conditions for doing business. Such changes in the agricultural business increase uncertainty. And the fact that there is an increase in business uncertainty in some activities is, of course, bad. Therefore, the possible amendment of the Income Act in 2013 would further exacerbate their operating conditions, which would show not only in their income position, in the income position of farmers, but also in order to reduce the activity of agriculture or to reduce food production and thus domestic supply of the population. These are the main reasons why we will support the proposed solutions in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by the Group of the Social Democrats and the Magi. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u32	Dear President, distinguished Members and Members, distinguished Minister with fellow Members, nice greeting! We will also support the change of the income law in the case of Social Democrats. There are many reasons for such thinking. The first is that this is in line with the spirit of the conclusions of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment, which was intended for agriculture – drought. This committee presented a report by the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber that this year, due to the natural conditions that cannot be secured, lost or damaged 128 million or another number was presented, this is the number of the Minister of Defence of Mr Hojs to continue to be large after the currently officially collected data, that is EUR 60 million. The second reason that we will support this is that, in fact, the European agricultural policy system is changing in 2014. We don't know what's gonna happen at this point. If the debates were still optimistic some year ago and it showed that Slovenia would be able to negotiate at least direct payments as much as we are receiving now, the discussions currently taking place within the European Union, where it is trying to save up to transfers in agriculture, are of concern, and it is right that we are essentially waiting for what will happen in 2014. Last but not least, I would like to say that the consensus that is present today, as we hear in the amendment to this law for the benefit of Slovenian agriculture, farmers and farmers, is also a signal that this Parliament is continuing the path of the previous Parliament, which unanimously adopted a resolution, which provides food for tomorrow, placing agriculture and food production as a strategic activity in Slovenia, where neoliberalism will not be allowed, but the State's concern that we keep this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Gazette and the Mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister with colleagues and dear colleagues! With the proposed amendment, we extend the transitional period of reintroduction of the inclusion of agricultural subsidies or payments of agricultural policy measures into the tax base in the amount of the amounts actually received. Restoring the actual amounts of subsidies received will increase the tax liability for some recipients of these subsidies. For this reason, an aid has already been introduced for 2011 and 2012 already in force to include only 50 % of the amount of these funds received in the tax base. Unfortunately, 2013 in which a new way of taxing subsidies is to be implemented fully coincides with the scale of the crisis, which we are also witnessing in the agricultural sector. It also coincides with the delay in the application of the new method of determining cadastral income. In addition, as has already been said, a new programming period under the common agricultural policy will be launched in 2014, indicating changes both at the level and in the structure of the actions of the common agricultural policy. For these reasons, the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, as well as the Ministry of Agriculture, have therefore given an initiative to extend the period of tax benefit and we are following this initiative with the proposed amendment. This is a minor intervention in income legislation. Its application does not require both the taxpayers and the tax authority to make specific adjustments to the conduct and, for this reason, we will support the amendment of the law in the Civil Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Slovenian People's Party's Group and by Mr Roman Žveglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u36	Good day to you all! Again, we have before us an amendment to the Income Act, which amends only one transitional provision in December 2010 of the adopted Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act. Article 15 of this Act provides for a transitional period allowing for a gradual transition to full taxation of the proceeds of payments for agricultural policy measures and other State aid paid in connection with that activity. It is established that for 2011 and 2012, 50 % of the amounts actually paid are included in the tax base, thus facilitating the transfer to a new way of taxation. The reasons for the adoption of the proposed law extending the transitional period to 2013 have been highlighted by my colleagues and I will not repeat them myself. At this point, however, I would like to draw attention to some other issues in the field of basic agricultural and forestry activities which, according to Members of the Slovenian People's Party, should be exposed to the following amendments to the Income Act and are already made known to the competent minister. First of all, Article 47 of the Income Act, which provides for the compulsory determination of the tax base on the basis of the accounting data of tax records, should be adapted. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that, as with the law under consideration today, the date of the beginning of the determination of the tax base on the basis of accounting data should be extended by two years until 2015. The reasons for such a change are quite similar to those for which we accept the novel that is before us. Therefore, the introduction of the novel method of determining cadastral income in 2013 and the expected changes in the amount and structure of the actions of the European Union's common agricultural policy after 2013, is from 2014 to 2020. In addition to the one mentioned in Slovenia, we do not yet have the practice of keeping accounting for farms according to the rules of amendments and supplementing the Slovenian accounting standards. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the extension of the farmer's term would facilitate the transition to a new income-recognition system and improve their chances of preparing for such changes. With regard to compulsory accounting, we propose that the average income of two years should be taken into account as a basis for inclusion in the mandatory bookkeeping, while the average is dwindling, or that the obligation should only be made when the threshold is exceeded two years in a row and the mandatory threshold should be raised accordingly. It would also be welcome to make changes in the payment of income for co-financing of insurance premiums for agricultural production and fisheries insurance, since the current process of accommodating income is rather administratively complex. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we therefore call on the Ministry of Finance to include our proposals in the next amendment to the Income Act. We are confident that this would make it easier for farmers to adapt to the new income-recognition system and, in addition, to reduce administrative burdens. If we look at the administrative burdens being reduced everywhere, it is said that they are reintroduced for farmers with mandatory accounting. We also believe that these agricultural policy measures should also be treated differently, because these revenues are, of course, revenue and not income, according to our existing legislation are automatic revenues. I sometimes say that it is necessary to see from this money how much you poured into the tractor oil, how much the bull ate and only then determine how much remains of the farmer for income. Otherwise, today's amendment to the Income Act will be supported by the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u38	Dear Vice-President, Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a new Act amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act provides for a solution to include, as for 2011 and 2012 as well as for 2013 as a tax base on income from agricultural subsidies, where these are part of the incomes of basic agricultural and basic forestry activities, only 50 % of the amount actually paid of taxable agricultural subsidies. According to recent income figures, in 2010 income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities reached around 95,000. Most of them also show income from agricultural subsidies as part of their income from this activity. Taxable agricultural subsidies range around €120 million in recent years, accounting for around 60% of the total income of basic agricultural and basic forestry activities. The tax base on income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities will be reduced by around 30 % in 2013 by 50 % of the amount of tax subsidies paid. As this proposal for a legal novelty extends to farmers the transitional period for a more favourable tax treatment of agricultural subsidies as early as 2013, which is still a good thing in today's difficult situation, we will support MEPs and Members of the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting of the National Assembly. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda or at the latest at 19.15 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Period of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law on the Slovenian state holding by emergency procedure. With regard to this point, two draft laws were introduced into the legislative procedure, namely the Proposal for a Law on the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia, first reading, EPA 487/VI, of which the proposer is a Mag. Mr Alenka Bratušek and Mr Jani Möderndorfer, as well as the Proposal for a Law on Slovenian State Holding, urgent procedure, EPA 516/VI, of which the Government is proposing. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy decided in its debate on those draft laws to deal with it in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, he decided that the follow-up procedure in accordance with Article 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly would be guided by a proposal for a law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give the floor to the motions for additional explanations. I give my word to the government's representative. Here I welcome the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and give the floor to Dr. Janez Šuštersič, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u40	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members! A proposal for the Slovenian State Holding Act is quite complementary to yours. As you know, this law was tabled following an urgent procedure at the previous meeting, and the proceedings were suspended. During the summer, we carried out a series of coordinations with all representatives of parliamentary groups, as well as with the other professional public. The goals of the law, its purpose, its basic idea remain unchanged. But there are some important changes and, above all, I would like to draw your attention to them briefly. As far as the goals of the law are concerned. The main aim of the law is to increase, improve the management of the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia, and increase their value in the long term. This is what we want to achieve by establishing a single management system, one company organised under the Company Act and managed by it. At present, this property is scattered to several legal entities. Various organisations, agencies, funds have partial powers to manage it. In the past, there have also been conflicts, different objectives between them, uncoordinatedness and non-operation in managing these investments, which ultimately is known in their values. The law provides that this holding will operate on the basis of management acts such as investment management guidelines. This is a new issue compared to the current regulation and it means some general direction to be followed by the holding company, some general principles, an investment management strategy to be adopted by the National Assembly and then an annual investment management plan, a management code. Until the strategy is proposed and adopted, the law imposes an obligation on the Government to propose within one month a classification of investments, which the National Assembly then adopts. This classification will be the basis for the holding company to know which companies are allowed or even desirable to reduce the state share, whose investments are strategic and should remain in majority state ownership. The capital investment management agency will cease to exist as soon as the law is in force. The Slovenian compensation company will take on the provisional role played by the agency today, the holding agency's temporary administrations and will carry out all the necessary procedures within three months for the holding company to form and start acting as a stand-alone company. Key changes in the light of the previous proposal of the law, which are also proposed through amendments, are that the Capital Society remains a separate legal entity, in particular with a view to – this has been strongly stressed in the debate – maintaining the separation of assets serving as a reserve of pension funds. At the same time, although Kad is a separate legal entity, he is a subsidiary of holding company, which means that uniform management under the same strategy is ensured under the same principles. It is said that these conflicts and the problems that have been in the past will no longer be possible. Of course, the property, which is a reserve of the pension fund, will be clearly separated and preserved. All the provisions of the current legislation are also maintained with regard to the fact that Kad annually points EUR 50 million into the pension fund; that also 10% of the purchases from the possible sale of investments to be transferred to the holding company at the start of the operation will then be transferred to the pension fund reserve. Two more important matters. The Blue Insurance Company is not now repealing the law, which was the original proposal, and remains in Kadu. The Kad governance structure, too, remains the same as it is now. And the last thing is that those provisions that have been included in the Holding Act have been removed from this Act so that the holding company can also play the role of resolving the problem of bad bank claims, and we propose a special law to be discussed in the coming days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the parliamentary law, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u42	Your Honor! At the outset, to avoid any major serious confusion, I must complement the part that the representative of the Government, Mr Minister Šuštersič, has not said. In Positive Slovenia in July we prepared our proposal for a law on the management of the country's capital investments for the prudent and responsible management of state assets and also put it into the legislative process itself. The basic purpose of the proposed law was to transfer all of its capital investments to the management of the state management company, which would replace the existing state capital investment management agency. The company would also manage investments and take care of the obligations of the Slovenian Indemnity Company, the Capital Company, the DSU, thus abolishing the Capital Investment Management Agency and monitoring compliance with the Code would be carried out at the Ministry of Finance. We have proposed that the management of the country's capital investments should be regulated in one place and at the same time we wanted to protect state property. Our aim was to help the government and at the same time to prevent the human resources tsunami that the Government had announced with its proposals for a solution. In addition, we wanted a broad debate to be held, including the professional public and others interested, which did not allow for the urgent procedure by which the Government proposed its solutions. Of course, in the meantime, two months of rest took place on all that Mr Minister was talking about. And today we are just before the debate. The ruling coalition did not back our bill at that time. It has already rejected it in its consideration of the working body of the mother and is expected to support the government's proposal for a law instead of ours. In this way, property management from the country changed overnight or at one night’s meeting of the Committee on Finance. However, it later appeared that if the government proposal for a law were adopted in such a form, this could result in irreparable economic damage. Only a government or political crisis, which was not mentioned by the President of the Government by the announced vote on the confidentiality, prevented the adoption of a bad and harmful law. Thus, we all together have gained additional time to study thoroughly all the solutions proposed. As a constructive opposition, positive Slovenia participated in the working group of representatives of parliamentary parties and the Government or the Ministry of Finance during the summer months, coordinating the text of the Slovenian State Holding Act and not as they say on the coalition's side. The text of the law has been subject to many substantive and technical corrections, so that we can talk almost about the new text of the law. Most of the dilemmas highlighted by the Positive Slovenia, as well as by the social partners and some coalition partners, were satisfactorily resolved in the coordination phase of the working group, but the differences remained. Since it was obvious that agreements would probably not have been reached, even if they continued to be coordinated, a decision was taken to continue the consideration in the National Assembly or on this open-ended decision. Today we will therefore decide on these open issues, the amendments we have tabled in Positive Slovenia, and these will also depend on how Positive Slovenia will act. In the end, let me just say the essentials. Most of the time, we listen to one and the same thing over and over again: the opposition should be constructive or not constructive. We made the bill, we tabled the amendments. How sincere and truly you want constructive suggestions is the question. And we'll see this demonstration today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to a member of the Magi. Mark Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u44	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! At its 29th urgent meeting on 16 July, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, pursuant to Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, considered two draft laws under the same agenda item as the national working body, namely the Proposal for a Law on the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia, proposed by Mag. Alenka Bratušek and Jani Möderndorfer, as well as the Proposal for a Law on Slovenian State Holding, which was sent to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At its 24th meeting on 13 July, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the Slovenian State Holding Act should be dealt with on an urgent basis. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and the comments of the Capital Society on the Proposal for a Law on the Slovenian State Holding. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the law have been tabled by the SDS, the National Gazette, the Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia. On the basis of Article 117, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee first decided that, under the same agenda item, it would consider the proposal for a law on the management of capital investments, proposed mags. Alenke Bratušek and Janji Möderndorfer, and the Proposal for a Law on Slovenian State Holding, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee further decided, in accordance with Rule 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to act on the basis of the Proposal for a Law on Slovenian State Holding and to prepare a supplementary proposal for a law. The Committee also adopted, on the basis of Article 127, that the proposal for a law on the basis of which an amended proposal for a law would be prepared should not be included in any of the articles of the proposed Capital Investment Management Act. In the light of the previous conclusions, the Committee continued its second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Slovenian State Holding. In the discussion on the articles of the bill and the amendments tabled, different opinions were expressed by the members and members of the Committee. Members and members of opposition parliamentary groups have thus re-emphasized that the Government, by adopting legislation under urgent procedure, is preventing a wider professional and public debate. They noted the poor experience they have with the organisation of holding companies in some other European countries: the risk of the sale of state assets, the imprudentness of holding operations. They considered the proposal to establish the Slovenian State Holding to be an example of a reckless concept. Representatives of coalition parliamentary groups highlighted the positive effects and solutions offered by the proposed law. They drew attention to the need for a different way of managing and managing the country's capital investments, as has been the case so far, which did not bring about adequate profitability and profitability, to the inappropriate conduct of the Capital Investment Management Agency, for example in recapitalising the New Bank of Maribor, and to the fact that the capital investment management strategy has not yet been adopted. However, the debaters agreed that the objective should be to manage capital investments to maximise profitability. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Group of the Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats were announced the absence, obstruction of all members of the PS Group and SD in the decision-making process. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and accepted the amendments tabled by the SDS, the National Gazette, the Slovenian People's Party and the New Slovenia to the article of the proposal. The Committee also identified itself until the amendment of the DeSUS Group, which it did not support. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes the amendments adopted and is an integral part of this report, has been prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u46	Nice greetings, ladies and gentlemen, Minister and fellow worker! Today, we will talk and decide on the state’s gold, the silver, as you wish or the property that is left to the state and all of us. The value of all of this is supposed to be somewhere between €9 billion and €11 billion. Large or huge for each of us, but for all of us and for the whole country, there is very little. That's all our country has left. And we will discuss this property today and decide again in complete confusion. Thus all articles are amended, the content of the law will change so much that the law, if adopted in the form you propose with amendments, has nothing more to do with the explanation. In fact, in the name of the crisis, it's quite your practice. But that's not right and it's not good for the country and you're adopting bad laws, laws that then coalition MPs and even ministers say they don't know what they've been adopting. Much of this responsibility will have to be taken by you, our President, Mr Virant, who allows such an emergency. There are things that are really urgent and these changes can also be carried out in an extra-quick manner, and there are things, and the state property is certainly in the first place that should be given a lot of time in the National Assembly. Unfortunately, that's not the case. Today you will write with a bunch of amendments to the law, and we can't get an opinion on the law-law service because you've decided on such a quick procedure. Every day, you invite us to step together, to shrink our species, and to be constructive. But it's only for us. What about you? Do you not hear our requests that we do what we need to do in order to talk substantively, that when we adopt laws, we want the right arguments based on data? Even in the case of a state-owned holding company that will own all our assets, it is. From the very beginning, when the working group started its work, we wanted to get a description and value of the assets on the one hand and the liabilities arising from that property on the other. We have not been heard, and this should be a mandatory part of the law — financial consequences. You are obliged to tell our people what the public financial consequences of this manoeuvre will be. Many were open to the working group, many were cleared, and many were corrected by amendments. Despite the arrogance of the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance who participated in this working group, many of the things that we have opened up as a problem have been resolved exactly as we have proposed, which we are pleased to see. If I only list the more important ones. The assets must be transferred to the holding by actual market value. A strategy or classification should be adopted in the National Assembly prior to the start of the holding operation, where we will determine what and how much our country will sell and by what methods. Prior to the adoption of this strategy, the National Assembly must decide on each sale individually. When and the Blue Insurance Company must remain separate from all other assets. And there's more to it. I consider the work in the working group to be constructive and professional, which is also a tribute to our colleague Pogačnik, who led the working group. Unfortunately, however, three key issues have been raised, which is also the reason why our amendments do not accept that we cannot support the law. For the first time, this is the composition of the Supervisory Council, where the Government, or coalition, of the nine members of the 7th, took over. We have made alternative proposals that are similar to the alternative proposals of the social partners and have not been taken into account. We do not have a list of assets with the values of this asset on the one hand and obligations on the other. Each smallest company must make a so-called opening balance where it shows all that we want to get for 11 billion euros. We haven't received an answer as to whether banks will be transferred into holding after recovery or now immediately, uncleaned as you like to say. Otherwise, you convinced us that it doesn't matter, but we're assessing that this is an essential difference. In Positive Slovenia, we agree that state property is managed in one place, and even more important to us is that policy is uniform in adopting the strategy, what and how much we will sell. We hope and wish that we will make a thorough reflection of this and decide on the basis of professional arguments and not individual political or personal interests, which is why we are concerned about the experience of the 2004-2008 mandate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Magi shall have the floor. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u48	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! So far, state property has not been managed effectively and state-owned enterprises have achieved significantly worse business than comparable companies in the world. There are several reasons for inefficient management and the sub-average results of business operations. They would point out at least two: the dispersion of ownership among several stakeholders in state property management and inadequate and inadequate legislation. The proposal for the Slovenian State Holding Act and the amendments tabled include provisions and techniques that will enable and ensure more efficient, rational management of state assets and thus enable better business performance. The purpose of the law is to manage the investments of the Republic of Slovenia with a view to achieving stable ownership and to maximising the profitability and value of these investments in order to achieve economic, developmental and public interest objectives. It is important that the law contains the principle of transparency of business, the principle of economy, the principle of accountability, the principle of measuring and monitoring efficiency, the principle of separation and the purpose of assets and the designation of conflicts of interest. All of this has ensured that the law will achieve its purpose and purpose. It is important to stress that the law contains a number of safeguards that will prevent headless and imprudent sales of state property. The law allows for multi-stage supervision of the business of the company, both by the Supervisory Board and by the National Assembly. With the adoption of the proposed law, we are assured that Slovenia will finally receive more than the necessary strategy for the management of state property, which will have to be forwarded by the Management Board to the National Assembly no later than six months after their appointment. The management strategy will be based on the classification to be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia within one month of the entry into force of this Act and will be sent back to the National Assembly. The classification will include a list of strategic investments, a list of investments for the sale of objectives, country target shares in individual investments and sales methods. As from the date of the adoption of the law, there shall cease to exist a Capital Investment Management Agency which has failed to fulfil its basic mission during its operation, such as the preparation and adoption of a Asset Management Strategy. One of the ministers of the previous government named this institution as the top of an icy mountain of corruption. The amendments tabled will improve the law in both substantive and technical terms. It should be noted, however, that the amendments tabled take particular account of the comments and proposals made by the opposition, the social partners and the professional and general public. The amended proposal of the law, according to the previous version, provides for additional security, lays down some new principles of governance, a risk assessment system, defines conflicts of interest, contains an anti-corruption clause. The correction must also be the exclusion of the bad bank and the preservation of the Capital Society as a stand-alone person and the Blue Insurance Company as a subsidiary. The Public Company Management Code is a high standard of cooperative governance. On conclusion, the SDS Group would point out that a working group was set up to prepare the text of the Slovenian State Holding Act, which was composed of both members of the coalition and members of the opposition. This enabled the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the coalition party to actively participate both the opposition, the social partners and the professional public in the drafting of this law, which was not the practice of the government in the previous mandate and thus showed that they are aware of the importance of this law. The adoption and implementation of the Slovenian State Holding Act will enable effective, responsible, rational and transparent management of state assets, enabling the further development of Slovenian companies. The SDS Group will therefore support the proposed law and the amendments tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber and the Group of Social Democrats have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group, in which we will strongly oppose the Proposal for a Law on Slovenian State Holding, which is the largest policy intervention in the management of state property, as it is our assessment that 12 to 13 billion assets owned by the State and thus all of us will be transferred to the ownership of the Slovenian State Holding Company. The bill introduces the least transparent form of investment management in Slovenia. Holdings have a tradition of least transparent management in Slovenia. Let me just give you an example of Istrabenz holding company that damaged other property owners. The form of governance, as the government sees it, is going in this direction. Businesses will be drained and then sold out cheap. The consequences will be the flow of money abroad and we will be left at home without the best jobs and money. We will once again listen to the government's proposals that savings should be made because there is no money. We will continue to face lower wages and pensions. This is how the final blow is to be expected for the state property, severely devastated by tycoon stories between 2004 and 2008. The fate of 100,000 Slovenian and Slovenian jobs will be delivered into the hands of a capital political apparatus that will have a wide open door to a billion-dollar gambling. This law will cause the largest property in Slovenia. Mercury's story is a drop in the sea, compared to what this holding will allow. Insurance company Triglav, Telekom, Krka, Holding Slovenian power plants, Petrol, power distribution companies, Post office Slovenia is just a few of these companies that are literally our gold. It is not in vain to point out that the intentions of the ruling coalition are all sooner than the nobleness of the property in the spirit of a good master. The payment to denationalising beneficiaries of a billion, which they also say out loud, is only one of the priorities. That's probably what's going to happen to the failed Bell holding company. It is not a priority to raise economic growth and solve the economic crisis, but to continue to exhaust Slovenia. And all of this will be realized by the imprudent sale of our most prominent companies. Intransigence is justified by the following. The sale of property will take place without invitation to tender to pre-agreed customers. This is one of the key impossibility of the holding company, which will enable political voters to enrich themselves with commissions. They will also be enriched by the management of the holding company, since their salaries will not be limited by law. The bill, including the proposed amendments, will sell state property without a decision in the National Assembly. The share of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance in the Insurance Office Triglav will be sold by the holding at its own discretion. For a few hundred million euros, he will be able to sell this insurance company and hand over assets to foreigners for the management of EUR 2.5 billion. I'm sorry, it's a national betrayal, in our opinion. There will be no transparency and responsible management of the proposed holding. The coalition is aware of this when it suspends its responsibility to the National Council for the Management of State Property. The Capital Investment Management Agency was responsible to the National Assembly and the holding will not be responsible and will not have to report to the Court of Auditors. Holding will not be committed to public information and it will all end with a known excuse when we request information: we cannot disclose the data because it is a business secret. This is the last wave of privatisation, which is why we believe that it should be up to people to say if they want to sell state property and threaten 100,000 jobs. This time it's really a plebiscite decision about our future. With the sale of state property, the depletion of businesses, the threat of jobs, and thus our future, the Social Democrats will oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code and by Mr Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your word and a very nice greeting to everyone. I'm a little scared when I listen to the predecessor, what's gonna happen. But there's something I'd like to say on this subject. The state property, the management of this property, I have to go a few steps back when we had social property and we were all owners of everything, we all managed it. Some had more than that, and those who were more privileged had little less, and the matter worked. Then we privatized, we all got part of this Slovenian property, and let's see what we did to the citizens with this property. Of course, we were never owners, and we never knew how to afford it, so we sold all these certificates to some speculators at a price, almost free of charge. And so came all this property that we got from two million individuals to a few thousand who then could make good use of it. We didn't even know the citizens. Let's look at the story with our peds, investment companies that were designed to invest further in development, to clean up portfolios and all that stuff. There's been a transformation into some kind of holding company. What else did the citizens we invested in these pups get out of it? Nothing! And so on. Then we're at our property. How we deal with it and how we manage it is clear. I know that nothing has happened in 20 years. State property is state owned and managed by the State. On behalf of the State, the Government is responsible and has always worked, and has always made decisions. We even had companies, for example, that were set up in the same way as the proposed holding SRD. I know exactly what you mean. I can show you the records when the government met at important conclusions. It accidentally came into my hands when we decided to buy Elan from the Croats. President Drnovšek, Rob presented, everyone debated, decided to go to keep the brand, to buy again, to give the money that the SRD owes to the rehabilitation of banks, we already had. So these stories are famous, and I hope we don't repeat the nonsense of these stories. I can't say that nothing good has been done, and good things have been done. However, in this state property – for the last time, I said, at least a billion euros a year should bring this state property, at least a billion euros. These are mostly monopolistic companies, compared with global results, which achieve extremely low productivity, extremely low added value, because these are the places where money was channelled for those privileged people who had the ability to recruit there and who were always involved in these transactions, so these companies were very poorly profitable. Last year, we heard, 135 million euros in losses, a whole set of all these good companies. To the pre-Lanos, I think there was 256 million losses, instead of the billion profits that these companies should make to the state as owners. And that's what's been going on for 10 years, 20 years. These state-owned companies were like troughs, where some of us were well fed, they were dealing irrationally, not all of us, some of us had very good results, but these results were completely eliminated. Never and never has anyone hit a table and made order in this area, required these companies to achieve normal business results. And of course I understand some who say what will happen next, and we are afraid. I understand or I don't understand, because after all, pigs come from the trough when they see that it's empty. I don't know why some would just insist. So it's a really weird thing. In the Citizens' List, we will support these proposals, including amendments that are the product of long-term coordination. I don't think it can get any worse. But all I would say is that when we adopt marriage, the problem is not even nearly solved. It's about how we do it. There's too many of these laws. We could also run things through the old system if we took it seriously and took it seriously, make clear the rules of the game. And I'm not afraid that's what I'm worried about. That's what I'm worried about. That's what I'm worried about. That's what I'm worried about. I object to that, too. If we had sold it eight years ago, but would have received EUR 33 billion for it, we would not have any debt, not public or other, and we would have lived well, and no measures would have to be taken to reduce spending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Slovenian People's Party's Group and by Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In today's presentation of the position on the Proposal for a Law on Slovenian State Holding, I will probably not be able to list all the economic reasons why state assets are centralised, and there will be plenty of opportunities later in the debate. The important shift we see in the Slovenian People's Party is that the proposal for a law for the first time in the history of our country also foresees the adoption of a longer-term strategy where it will be clearly and clearly defined what the state wants to do with its assets in some medium-term period. This strategy must be the basic guideline of the country, whether the government is left, right or central. The practice of developed countries shows that fundamental strategic state policies are maintained by anyone when it comes to power. In Slovenia, let's be honest, we don't even know what we're going to do with the property of the country in the next few months or years. I'm not going to talk about banks today, it's coming soon, but there's still a number of other government shares here, so about 175 companies are listed where the country is ownershipally involved. The competent ministry needs one week to just collect data on state property, Kad, Sod, PDP, AUKN, Blue Insurance, etc. State property is scattered virtually everywhere. Just what we have now and what advocates part of the opposition as an appropriate state is a completely opaque situation. This is certainly the most favourable environment for thousands of different interests and, as a result, so many personal motives to move away from effective and optimal treatment of the property of citizens and citizens. But worst of all, who can measure the success of dealing with state property in countless strategies, directors, supervisors? How should we carry out comparative measurements, including from abroad, but if each director sets his own criteria? Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party we advocate a merger of management under one roof. Let's look at all this in numbers. If only a 3% return was achieved in the management of state assets, this would bring between €240 and €360 million to the budget annually if we are looking at the most optimistic estimate of the value of assets. That is why it is so important to adopt a long-term vision strategy, so what to manage and what to leave to someone who will lead it better than the country. Bank resolution is exempt from this law and one of the most pressing dilemmas or criticisms of the law is thus removed. There are also clear protectors, and there is also knowledge of the intense cooperation of the opposition that during the transitional period, the adoption of the strategy will not result in any sales of state property past the National Assembly. The Government and the National Assembly, directly, without hiding places, should be directly responsible for state property in each country. And that's exactly what holding is. Not through various management agencies, para-state funds, but through exchanges of administrations, supervisors and the like. Let us take responsibility and show that we know responsibility for social property. After all, the proposed governance concept makes it much easier to work for the supervisory authorities, for the opposition, and also for the performance or results, much easier to compare and measure. All I could say for the end is this. The bill before us is certainly the law, where we have witnessed the most intense coordination of both representatives of the coalition and the opposition, at a very professional level, not political. In the working group for this law, each parliamentary party had a representative, and in the vast majority it was an economic and legal expert. It seems to me that the public is also aware that this law is not basically prepared and coordinated by Members, not by an individual party, but by a group of experts and good experts on this issue. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party and according to the information I have, I can say that both the representative of the Social Democrats and the Positive Slovenia have taken an extremely constructive and professional approach to the preparation of this bill. We can say that this law also bears the seal of the opposition. We thank the Slovenian People's Party for its constructiveness, but we expect such broad support to be given to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and by Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u56	Thank you for your word and for your warm welcome to all present! In addition to the resolution of banks, the story of the Slovenian State Holding is, in our opinion, the most difficult test during this mandate period, perhaps even during the whole period of the independent State, because it is a matter that will govern the management of the state property, as far as we have left it. In the DeSUS Group, we note that all the practices of state property management have not been the best since, in the past, those responsible dealt with the question of how to redistribute and share state assets, not how they could or should be fertilized. Today we have just about 10 to 12 billion worth of state property. We should have it with extreme care, as with fragile porcelain, in order to preserve it for our craftsmen. The consideration of the draft law, the text of which we have with the amendments on the table today, was long and extremely difficult. In the DeSUS Group, we hope that with a serious intention to draft a law that will allow for fair, efficient and transparent governance. We hope that now will finally come the time to manage state assets, which will prevent fraud and places to which we have witnessed years and years ago. By establishing a holding company as an economic company, we expect the management of state assets to be significantly improved, as the management of the state holding company will commit to efficiency the governance strategy required by the government. In the event of the mismanagement of the holding company, it will bear criminal and material responsibility and also, in terms of their expertise, the law follows high criteria. In the law in DeSUS, we gave special attention to the assets of the Capital Society. This was established with the aim of creating additional funds for pension and disability insurance through the management of own property. Today, when it manages assets worth more than €1.2 billion, it manages 1.3 billion worth of pension savings. Today, when we talk about the new governance concept, the key question is what will happen to this part of the social property created by the very generation of our pensioners. In the DeSUS Group, we advocate that this part of the property continue to be exclusively intended to provide long-term pension fund needs. Of course, it makes sense to look at the needs of the pension fund and to be aware of further demographic changes and of the fact that the budget already covers 1.4 billion worth of STIZ needs. Also due to the crisis, the reduction in inflows to the pension fund, the fall in employment, the unresolved relationship between the pension fund and the budget, the lack of unpaid contributions and the work on the black and gray economy, the capital company's resources are needed to compensate for the shortfalls. In this law, the Capital Society retains a separate legal status within the holding company with its own supervisory board, which also controls the management of the capital company’s assets in the future. We have identified the purpose of the annual payment of EUR 50 million to the pension fund, which is primarily intended for the coordination of pensions. It is also important that, from the sale of capital investments of the holding company, 10 % of the purchase will be transferred to the capital company. Thus, additional funds will be provided to future generations of pensioners for the stability of the pension fund. In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that the time has come when we must take certain measures to get out of the crisis, which we are undoubtedly in, even because of our own inefficiency. Since the Slovenian State Holding Act is only one step to better manage state assets, we will be very careful how measures are in practice implemented to achieve the objectives set. The DeSUS Group will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u57	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State! If I withdraw the New Slovenia economic programme, which was produced in a special brochure during the election campaign and received many praises, and set coalition contracts in two sentences, then it is roughly as follows: We will unify and centralise the management of capital investments owned by the State. We will replace the capital investment management agency with a different solution to ensure that the OECD principles for sound governance of state-owned enterprises are effectively enforced. The proposal for a law on Slovenian State Holding means the realization of the New Slovenia commitment from the economic route, which establishes a concentrated management of the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia. The property of the Republic of Slovenia is currently owned by several legal persons who are pursuing various business objectives. And that's bad. This property is not managed optimally, which means that the purchase or return of the owner is not optimal, far from maximal, but is subordinate to the various objectives pursued by these companies. In particular, it would point out that capital investment management through the Capital Investment Management Agency has not been effective. The capital investment management strategy has not been adopted. Their profitability was lower than expected. The concept of management through the Capital Investment Management Agency has proved to be even worse than capital investment management before the establishment of the Agency, since the Agency has taken decisions completely beyond or even contrary to the Government’s opinion. The Slovenian State Holding Act now eliminates these shortcomings in capital investment management and establishes a better and more efficient system of government capital investment management, which is in line with the OECD recommendations, this is in line with corporate governance principles and in accordance with the guidelines for the management of state-owned enterprises. The positive side of this law, which has been particularly welcomed by the OECD secretariat, is the adoption of a five-year capital investment management strategy. The law sets out in detail the procedure for adopting the strategy itself. The proposal for such a strategy is prepared by the management of the Slovenian State Holding Board, approved by the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding. And then it's forwarded to the Ministry of Finance. The coordinated draft strategy is then forwarded to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which adopts the strategy. It is also agreed upon by the National Assembly. The adoption of the strategy will define specific management objectives, including which assets may be intended for sale. The sale of state property will therefore be planned. In its comment on the proposal for a Slovenian State Holding Act, the OECD has defined, under the legal provision, that, unless otherwise provided for in this Act, the provisions of the Company Act apply. The OECD has identified this legal solution as in line with the OECD recommendations and has even stressed that this is considered a good practice in many OECD Member States. While the OECD has made some comments on the proposed law submitted to the Committee, which are fully complied with in the current amendment, the law is fully respected. Among other things, the OECD comments referred to the area of appointment, discharge and composition of the Supervisory Board, where Article 37a was adopted, whereby the mandates of the members of the Supervisory Board do not terminate simultaneously but successfully. In line with the OECD recommendations, the legislative text deleted the possibility of transferring bad bank claims to holding and the resolution of bad investments by banks would be regulated by a specific law. In New Slovenia, we believe that the new concept of capital investment management, as brought by this law, is good and effective, thus achieving the objective of simplifying the governance structure, clearer definitions of the purpose and criteria for the management of state investment and the creation of the country's single asset reserve. The proposal for the Slovenian State Holding Act will be supported by Members of the New Slovenia Group. We will also support the coalition amendments, and I also sincerely thank all the members of the expert group who did what they could at the time of the holiday. But the priorities of the opponents of the law, I ask the collegiately that the implementation of the SDH law is not copied by the black and criminal future in the method of its own skin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u59	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. First, I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the coalition to Article 1. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening an application for discussion. Mrs. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, President of the National Assembly. I warmly welcome the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, warmly welcomed fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Governance of state property is essential and should be managed by the previous AUKN, as it is, or managed by a better company we are talking about. In addition, Pahor's Government has established a Capital Investment Management Agency to this end, which has not done its work in accordance with the expected, even the opposite, has not acted in accordance with the government's guidelines and has not prepared a capital investment management strategy. We can talk about the work of the AUKN today. We can also talk about the political staffing of AUKN, but we know that there has been no efficiency, so today we are adopting a proposal for a Slovenian State Holding Act aimed at better governance of state investments. This law regulates the status and functioning of the Slovenian State holding company, the transfer of investments by the Republic of Slovenia to the holding company of the Slovenian State, the management of investments and acts and the management procedures of investments. The purpose of this Act is to achieve, in accordance with the principles of governance and in accordance with the Code, Guidelines and Management Strategy and the annual management plan, the concentrated management of the investment of the Republic of Slovenia under one roof, with a view to achieving stable ownership and a sustainable maximisation of the profitability and value of these investments in order to achieve economic and development objectives and public interest objectives. A transparent and transparent system of capital investment management of the Republic of Slovenia will be provided by optimising management costs. The statutory obligations of the Capital Company of Pension and Disability Insurance and the Slovenian Compensation Society will also be ensured. Accurately, the law defines the procedures, the way in which investments are acquired and made available, the information about investment acquisition, the classification of investments, and the establishment of a reliable risk management system. It is very important to highlight the chapter on Kad. The Slovenian state holding company must not have the capital investment in Kad. In the event of the termination of the Slovenian State holding company, shares When transferred to the holding of the Republic of Slovenia and assets When used only for purposes specified by the law governing pension and disability insurance. It is very important that the KadaAD balance sheet is separated from other investments. At the same time, Kad also directs the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance by 30 September at the latest EUR 50 million primarily for the coordination of pensions. It is very important that, in addition to the remittance referred to in the preceding paragraph, for the provision of additional funds to the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, when also 10 % of the purchase received by SDH from the sale of its capital investments, other than those classified as SDH assets. It also seems very important to me to point out that from the date of the transformation of the Court into a Slovenian state holding company with an investment made by the Republic of Slovenia in the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and for the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, as well as to the actual inputs, increases SDH’s core capital. Since the entry into force of this Act, the management of the capital investment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute, i.e. the Insurance Company Triglav, has also been transferred to SDH. In doing so, it is the responsibility of all the funds received in connection with the management and disposal of the capital investment to direct to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia. Because of all these facts, I am convinced that the Slovenian State Holding Act will better manage state investment and, before I conclude, I should point out the very important fact that both the opposition and the coalition have been involved in the drafting of this law with a serious purpose and with these serious common objectives, which means that we are on the right track to pursue common objectives for the good of Slovenia together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u61	Mag. Marko Pogačnik, followed by Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u62	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues, colleagues! I am sure that Parliament and Members and Members of Parliament today are ahead of an important decision. We are talking about a very important law, which is why both the Government and coalition parties have taken a step forward and have set up a working group that has been working mainly during the summer to improve this law. In this work, I would like to thank, as the leader of the working group, the opposition colleagues who have cooperated with expertise and have contributed a great deal to the fact that the law is significantly better than it originally looked. The important law is mainly because we know that state assets have not been successfully managed today, and Slovenian companies are achieving significantly worse business results than comparable companies abroad. On the other hand, I do not understand the Social Democrats, who had the largest team in this working group, a number of their comments and proposals have been taken into account and, on the other hand, we are hearing today about my notions of lies, non-truths, misleading. There are only two reasons why they want to stop the adoption of this law in order to make further use of the partial interests of individuals, or whether they do not understand matters. You're talking about the sale, the end of the century. This law allows for the concentration of state property in one place. This also allows for the determination of the responsibility of who is responsible for the operations of these companies and the employment of this holding company. Today we had more para-state funds. Finally, there was the Capital Investment Management Agency. AUKN, Kad and the Court of Justice have called some Bermuda Triangle because it was not possible to determine the responsibility for certain individual decisions. This law provides for a series of safeguards for administrations, supervisory boards and ultimately for taxpayers. It is not true that the National Assembly will have no effect on the decision-making and supervision of this law. Let's do it in a row. At the request of the opposition, because they were afraid that the State would sell state property during this interim period, an article was added to the law which made it impossible for the Government to dispose of the sale of that state property in the interim period. He needs a consensus. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall prepare a classification within one month after the adoption of this Act. Investments will take into account strategic investments, whose investments will be for sale, target shares and sales methods. Mr. Weber, you said before that it would be sold without public tender. The classification clearly specifies, read the law. This may have been the practice of the past years, in 2000, 2002 when Diridon’s apparent offers, d. o. o., were such. And you had three offers. It's not gonna happen now. The classification will be confirmed by the National Assembly, a new security guard. Then the management of the holding must adopt a strategy in six cities based on this classification. And the strategy goes back to the National Assembly. The task force has drawn close to a number of positions. We had different views at the end only in the supervisory world. However, it should also be mentioned here that there are probably more important criteria that determine who is in the control world and who cannot be. We have agreed with the opposition once again that the election of the members of the Supervisory Board requires 46 votes. On the other hand, the Company Act does not provide for the word that a member of the Supervisory Board or a member of the Management Board may be one who has achieved good results in the past in his field. Today, they were called some supervisory councils and societies of people who had previously brought five, ten societies to bankruptcy. This law will make it impossible. On the other hand, it could be said that even in the case of the assumption that the payment system of public servants will not apply to this holding, and only for one reason, because we want to ensure a quality frame and because we do not want to jeopardise the seriousness of the intention to apply an international invitation to tender for the management of this company. Your Honor! We are likely to come up with what kind of debate hereafter. I consider this law to be good, thanks to the opposition, which has helped to do so, and that this law will allow more efficient, rational and, above all, more responsible governance of state property.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u63	Here you go, Mr. Han, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have a procedural proposal. I listened with interest to speakers when, on behalf of the groups of Members, they said how important it was for us to adopt this law for the development of the economy and in general. And, secondly, if it were really that important, I would expect that there is at least a Minister of Finance in this Chamber, that he listens to all the debates of Members and Members, and that, on the basis of the discussions, we can also accept some of the amendments on the table. If not, I think it would be very important that the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, would also be in the National Assembly in such decisions today. We know he's in America, he's on a trip, but I think we deserve the opposition to sit down in this Chamber, even though I respect the Secretary of State and the Minister of Finance and listen to the debate. However, if the government were truly well-intentioned, the Minister of Economy, the Minister of Social Affairs and others would also be sitting in this Chamber. It is a very important topic that we deserve Members and Members to be heard by the Secretary of State, Mr Zivkovic. I call on you, Madam President, to invite at least the Minister of Finance to sit in the Chamber, to listen to the debates and to respond appropriately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u65	Thank you. The government's presence is assured. The Minister of Finance was in the hall, and I'm sure he'll join us. I also believe that he is listening to us now and that he will also join us in the Chamber on the basis of this debate. And now I'm giving a word for the replica to Mr. Webra.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Just for a moment, why we claim it is a theft of Slovenian property. The equipment can also be provided for the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which we have also obtained on Article 36, which we are considering. It is clear from this opinion that until we adopt the assets management acts, the Slovenian Compensation Society may have this property without any agreement from the Government, without any agreement from the National Assembly. So Airport Ljubljana, Banka Celje, Casino Portorož, Cinkarna Celje, Elektro Gorenjska, Ljubljana, Helios, Intereuropa, Iskra Autoelectrica, Logatec, Krka, Lotterija Slovenije, Luka Koper, Mariborska livarna, Nova KBM, Nova Ljubljanska banka. All of this can be sold out without the government's consent, without the consent of the National Assembly, so we're talking about theft. It's about selling wood, classification. We claim that there is no invitation to tender. You may sell this property without invitation to tender. We say that the National Assembly must legitimize the sale process, there must be an invitation to tender. You say it's only in the classification. And the difference is, if we write it down in law, the Court cannot sell it without the consent of the Government, without the consent of the National Assembly. This is why we are talking about theft, so we are talking about the fact that this management is untransparent, opaque, harmful to the further development of Slovenia. And once again, in the expert group, we have not received the government's reply why it is more efficient to manage when we transfer state property to a company operating under the company's company law and why it is not more effective if it is managed by an agency which is a state authority and is accountable to the Court of Auditors, it is an obligation to provide information of a public nature. The company will not do this and will hide behind business decisions. These are the key findings that justify our claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u67	Mr. Just Bevk, behind him mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Let me say in advance that neither the amendment to Article 1 nor the Slovenian State Holding Act will I support. At the end of the discussion of the deplorable law of SDH in July, when it seemed that the coalition and the National Assembly had won reason, you were quick to make changes and you were already writing a completely new law with the first amendment to Article 1. The government has been appointed in the National Assembly to take or propose important decisions for the development of our country, to promote the economy and control the banking system and to participate in the co-management of social subsystems. But we have seen, above all, ideological interventions and debates, such as the red star and village guards. When I saw the agenda of this meeting this week, it was the first of September's holiday sessions, I couldn't believe my eyes that from 17 points it was just one of a substantive nature, except for the debate on banks that we're going to have on Friday, but it's already been said that this point will be removed from the agenda. It is as if we were living on another planet, not on earth, which unfortunately faces the greatest crisis since World War II, and we can compare it with much depression after World War I. As set out in Article 1 of this Act, the Slovenian State Holding will, in a new way, manage all state assets worth more than EUR 10 billion. So one of today's main problems is instability, which is reflected in the constant change in legislation. Each authority is trying to redecorate everything from A to Z. When the Capital Investment Management Agency started to show its first results, it had to be headed first and then abolished. Today, we need, in particular, optimism in this country, which, unfortunately, is sinking too much in the general depression, we need a vision and economic development, a just and social state. Today, we need the stability of the country and not the constant change of all social subsystems, but at the end of the sale of state property, which more than EUR 1 billion, as we have already heard today, will go towards the payment of denationalisation. We have also amended 39 laws with Zujf, but for example, we have not touched the Denationalisation Act and frozen its implementation. It is therefore necessary to directly control policies over state assets in order to make one of the most controversial laws of the Slovenian transition possible despite the greatest crisis we are in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u69	Mag. Matthew Tonin, followed by Mr. Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u70	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! With all the social demagogies that we have witnessed in the debates on the Slovenian State Holding, it is likely that in a mockery of Article 1 of this Act, which deals with the purposes and principles of the Slovenian State Holding, it is possible that we should try to achieve concentrated management in order to establish a transparent governance system and fulfil certain other legal obligations. I have a feeling that each deadline offered to the opposition has been rejected in one way or another. Remember, before the holidays we started to discuss this law, which we then broke up and we said that they would deal with it over the summer with a special group that would process this law. We did it, and that was a specific deadline. Today's the problem. The problem is because now it's obvious that there's been a whole new and different marriage. Yes, does that not make sense if we closed this case in June or July, by August, it was coordinated to make certain corrections? I think it's perfectly normal. And opposition proposals have also been taken into account. I feel like whatever we do is wrong. It's wrong because the entire government is not here today. Okay. I imagine that even if Ban Ki-moon, Barak Obama or Angela Merkel were sitting here, that wouldn't be right. You know, there's always something wrong. If only a few socio-demagogos of this nanism. It's about stealing the century. It's thesis. In the discussion below, I expect you to answer this question clearly and explain it. Because I can't imagine why the theft of state property would happen if we transferred some property to another form of institution, a company, anything. You will explain, because Parliament is for debate and you will have this opportunity. The next thesis, which appears, is to lose 100,000 jobs. Crazy number, I can't imagine this unemployment. I don't know which government would shoot themselves in the knee with this. If you think we're so stupid, then luckily, you're wrong. This too needs to be explained how and why you imagine losing 100,000 jobs. If that's what you're saying in Parliament, that's what the media are talking about, and people are scared. 100,000 jobs are a huge number and at least give some concrete arguments to explain why and how this will happen. The idea that Slovenia is personally governed by the government or by John Janša is appearing in one way or another and that the National Assembly will not have an impact on the management of the property. My colleagues have clearly explained to me who will have to adopt the strategy. Those of you who have read the law will also be required to report to the National Assembly. The National Assembly will play a role in the management of state assets, but of course it will not have an impact on specific matters, so that we determine where the Director will sit. Maybe it bothers someone, too. Then, on the one hand, there is the accusation that there was a very short debate. Even her colleague Bratušek admitted that they worked during the summer and that she worked as a working group with some results. That the law was not presented to the general public. As I know, it was presented to the Economic and Social Council. If you are following the media, you can see that it has been practically beaten by all known Slovenian economists. Some stood up for him, others opposed him, but he was discussed and debated. Not to mention that the media has written a lot about it and talked about it. Next thing you know, we're going over all of the OECD recommendations to do things our way and so on. If I have listened well to the Minister, he will probably say more today that the OECD recommendations have been followed. Another such flower, which is also very common, is that from now on it will operate the central committees of the parties. That's a claim. On the other hand, Mr Weber earlier said that we are introducing the most opaque form of governance of state property. This will also be explained further in the debates on how this works together. On the one hand, it is clear that it is intended to carry out the central committee of political parties and, on the other hand, it is to be the most imprecise form of management. I understand about what the problem is SD, and let my colleagues in SD not understand me, I will say, I love them very much, and I enjoy the discussions, and I think that Parliament is also a suitable place, but I think their basic problem is AUKN. AUKN is kind of their child. And if we give this child up now, if I say bad things, or if we end the AUKN, their concept of managing state property falls down, and in some way we give their proposal no confidence. That's a fact. But the truth is that the AUKN was trying to establish some quasi-independent agency, which the former coalition partners of the SD also warned that it was a typical political recruitment and that there were also clearly set up certain individuals who knew where they belonged. Of course, there were different uncles hiding behind this cover of independent management, but I don't mean to talk about the uncles in the background, they're already waving at me who they are, but they've managed this property by some individuals whose names start with "Is" or "Ze". Many have also been able to say that. I don't think it makes any sense, I'm talking about the advantages of the new concept and the new SDH. However, I would like to. My colleague Frangež and I talked about this several times in the halls, that at least some topics would be created in Slovenian politics to create a small amount of mutual trust so that we would not see some conspiracy theory in every matter. You see your conspiracy theory in this state holding company, we see it somewhere else, but I hope and I want the time to finally come when we can also believe each other, and we do some things in good faith. And I would have finished with the last thing, but most likely my opposition colleagues won't like it either. I am aware that this government coalition and this government are extremely unpopular or outlying because we are taking unpleasant measures. This is what we have to do, and this is what Slovenia needs to do if we are to get rid of it. And the opposition is in a very simple role: with social demagogism, with opposition to this government coalition, to this government, to our solutions, it is simply building its public image and its public rating is growing. Otherwise, it's short-term breath. If they bring us down, they will have to take this responsibility on their own, and there will be no minor problems for them. I wish our opposition were part of the solution, not part of the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u71	Mr. Jerko Chehovin, after him mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me first say that all of us here together are probably aware that we want to maintain the governance of this country and that we do not need any aunts or uncles or heirs or predecessors. I think it's up to you to give them up first, including some uncles in gills. Today we are talking about a matter that is, in a way, very important or one of the most important things in this country. I think it has already been said by the proponents and the coalition that the opposition here, I speak for our party in particular, has played a positive role. With regard to the objectives themselves, we agree that effective and quality governance with state ownership is necessary and has not been done so far. I will not now talk about the old things, not the previous Courts, the Kads, or the current and scattered forms, not the AUKN, but I am talking about what is the subject of this treatment today. There's one thing that really bothers me. Mr President of the National Assembly himself, in conclusion, if I may say, the spring part of the meeting of the assembly said that we would stop the harmful practice of enacting laws by emergency procedure. I think it's happening again that things are constantly rolling and appearing to us in a way that we've already witnessed to him in receiving Zuif. We have practically multiple amendments that we have received today to the law, such as the almost basic articles of the law. And in fact, we may not yet know how much less capable or in the opinion of some, it is simply not possible to harmonise all things in such a way as to review all matters. Otherwise, I can say today that I probably speak empty because the coalition majority of this matter is going to get away with it. But if so much energy has been invested in the summer to get closer to some positions, I think this last effort would be good, too, so that actually now things are getting a little closer. Here I heard one of the proponents say let's take it, because it can't get any worse. This fatalism seems really unacceptable to me for some serious work in this country. The law does not provide that ministries and governments have no jurisdiction to decide on the ownership functions of the State in companies owned by the State holding company and by Kad. Therefore, in my view, the practice of recruiting and rewarding its members of the Supervisory Boards, Management Boards, Ownership and Regulatory Functions will continue to remain within the same time frame. The OECD guidelines, which we so like to refer to, provide that state-owned companies must maintain autonomy. Is that really the case with this proposal? I fear that the long fingers of politics will continue to mix cards and run state-owned companies. Holding will also not be an independent public authority, but a state-owned economy, which means that the legal person is private law. And here it is interesting that these solutions, in the management function, are that the government will represent a society assembly without the Ministers being shareholders or I will say, this means that the actual management function, which will be carried out under corporate law, will not be carried out in a way that is characteristic of economic societies. Another thing that surprises me, especially at DeSUS, is the case with the insurance company, which is supposed to put its profits in the pension register. I'm alone in these years, when I'm also getting receipts from this cash register tomorrow, so I'm afraid that with this solution you're offering us, we're going to sell the insurance company and just once direct this purchase to the ZPIZ and then the end of this story will be. This story will no longer exist, and therefore it is completely illogical that we do not have, when we adopt such legislation, at least temporary strategies for the management of state ownership. We do not know which companies we will maintain, which we will sell or which criteria, by which classification. That means we're taking something for supplies, and then we'll do what happens. I will not, once again, be absolutely against holding and I am in favour of concentrating and making the ownership structure transparent. However, I am not in favour of these matters being taken up by a rapid procedure, because this does not actually affect credit ratings. We have enough time here to take another month or two and actually come up with better solutions. Therefore, because of this haste, it seems to me that we will be able to rediscover in a month or so, that we have come up with some inconvenient solutions. The only thing we're not waiting for is to quickly frame and frame our staff at all times of these societies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u73	Thank you. Just an explanation. The decision on the urgent procedure for this law was taken long before that agreement before parliamentary holidays. It is also important to know that the law, as has been said many times today, has been aligned with the opposition during the summer, and these amendments have largely resulted in this. So much for Mr. Chehovin's explanation because he mentioned my role. Mag. Katarina Hotchevar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Well, hello again, everyone! If you don't know where you're spitting, the good wind doesn't help, they say in the economy when they talk about targeted leadership. And the Slovenian State Holding Act sets out where we want to go. Finally, the investments of the Republic of Slovenia will be concentrated and managed in one place. Although the AUKN was the first attempt in this direction, in practice it did not justify its expectations and the degree of autonomy itself was not sufficient. Furthermore, the creation of the holding company will allow a faster and more transparent withdrawal of the country from the economy. We are the country with the largest share of ownership in the OECD. We are extreme in political control and central planning in the economy in every way. We are, unfortunately, comparable to the socialist economy. And for the first time since we are talking about the withdrawal of policies from the economy, assets will be transparently classified into the strategic one that the state will professionally manage and to the one from which we want to withdraw. And we'll finally get ourselves some clean wine. The communication before the elections was a political exit from the economy. Today it is even more clear than then that we cannot insist on the current size and structure of state ownership, because this means treating haemophilia by bloodletting. If we are honest, speaking of state silver is unfairly said because anyone who in the near past has put an eye on the stock market can know that the national economy can no longer be wasted because most of it has already been evaluated by the economic crisis since 2007, and this is because politics has not withdrawn from it in a timely manner into safer investments and maintained its value. We are now proposing a management that is more flexible and professionally chosen by the international call for proposals and by the supervisory board approved by Parliament and has a clear mandate to sell off state assets. This will only and ultimately ensure that it ends with harmful political recruitment and intervention by stakeholders in these semi-market enterprises, but always at the expense of taxpayers. And to those who may still hesitate to support the law or not, I would end by saying one thought of a policy that I respect, Churchill: "It is not enough to do what you believe is good, sometimes it is necessary to do what is necessary." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u75	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 1? I'll reopen the application. Mag. Stanko Stepichnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. In my opinion, marriage is good, but no work has ever been done so well, says he that it could not have been better. That is why we have proposed even better amendments to this law. If we find a common ground here, then we get the law. If this law aims to improve governance, then it's the right thing to do. However, if there are hidden objectives here to bypass the AUKN and to replace all directors in state-owned companies, then this is very dangerous. To achieve this goal, we must have adequate resources, systems, structures. There's gonna be some problems for the administration here. In the case of material resources, it is likely not, but in the case of intangibles, there will be a lack of knowledge. It has 160 people who have now worked in various societies, Kadu, Sud, DSU and AUKN. There is one major problem, however, that information communication technology is incompatible and will therefore spend quite a lot of money and also know that it will be unified so that it can work as a single company. I think that these systems and structures of administration will already be able to set up properly. The form is very important, so to speak, form, organizational form, which will offer the achievement of these strategic objectives. As a form, these are options for achieving the objectives set. Experience and recommendations to date should be taken into account. First time. You can't control and control yourself. Politics must be withdrawn from state-owned enterprises. The existing coalition does not have a hearing for the public interest. Explanation. This was seen in the adoption of yesterday’s law on the transfer of property to the congregations, so that what was transferred from the country to the congregations could not be sold to the congregation for at least five years. We asked for that security guard. Since this was not accepted, it is an open way to legally acquire state property through the municipality in private ownership. SDH supervision must be through the members of the Supervisory Board of all stakeholders of this company. The coalition’s concentration of appointment is a source of fear and fear for corruption. In order to achieve effective management of capital investments, we need to know, classify them, perhaps on strategic and portfolios, set target capital shares, determine timing and resource dynamics, and indicators of success, such as return on capital, dividends, profits, etc. The sector-specific division of the country's capital shares gives a clear overview of the transparency and comparative indicators of the country's sectoral policies and capital investments and spreads the fog of transparency. For instance. Energy has different policies, objectives and importance than companies in bankruptcy, liquidation or closure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaz Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u78	Thank you. Once again, have a good day. We have different concepts, different parties have different concepts of how to solve problems in this country. Here I agree with Matthew Tonin, we, the Social Democrats, the solution you are proposing today with this law on SDH is not close and we will not support it, we will vote against it, and we will do everything we can to ensure that this law will not be brought to life in the future. Why? First, let me say that I do not trust the government of John Janša for a simple reason because they have proved in their history what they know and what they can do. When there was no AUKN, when there was no SDH, the politicians of the highest calibre were publicly determined how and how to sell out Slovenian assets, so today we have what we have: the Taiwanisation we received between 2004 and 2008. In the office of Janez Janša Mercator was sold to Boško Šrot, sold work and so on. I just don't trust you. By this law, which you will adopt today, you will somehow formalize matters and you will be able to hide behind the law. That's why I won't support this marriage. We have not received from the proposer all the advantages of the present law, according to the AUKN, what their advantages were and what were weaknesses. If there were advantages, you can tell what the advantage was. If it was a weakness, it's said what a weakness is, and the matter is resolved. No, we have to destroy the law, replace people, and then set up a new law for new people. This government has been engaged in economic policies ever since it came into power. The same is true because we are in an economic crisis. We have adopted a set of some laws on economic competitiveness, for economic growth, we have adopted a system of savings. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know anything in this Slovenia? No, no, no. Our ratings continue to decline, Slovenia falls at all levels on all the competitiveness scales and so on. Nothing we've accepted in the last year has helped us out of this crisis. Not a single marriage. Minister Žerjav says that we have already taken, I don't know, 80, 200 economic measures, but economists are more confident about how difficult it is every day. And what did the government decide? Adopt the law on SDH to solve their ignorance or their ideas, which they do not have, so that Slovenian assets can be sold out and we can "fill" the budget. But, ladies and gentlemen, you can only sell once in your life and then never again. And then we'll never have any more assets. We all have to admit, all governments have made mistakes so far. We made a mistake at denationalisation. We made a mistake during the first privatisation. We made a mistake in the law of Jasbinsk. Does another mistake have to be made? I don't think so. I'll have a chance to check in later. Absolutely will be, at least I will personally oppose this holding company, because here we are really putting too much policy into deciding what will be sold, what will not be sold. But not politics in this National Assembly, politics in Gregorčič. And this is the most dangerous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u79	Mrs. Patricia Shulin, for her, Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u80	President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! Today I am pleased to find that our decision in July, when we removed the adoption of the Slovenian State Holding Act from the agenda, is good. It is good because a working group of opposition, coalition and social partners has been formed and the public has had the opportunity to participate. A colleague from Positive Slovenia praised the law, praised the cooperation and functioning of this work committee, and also made some critical substantive concerns. My colleagues from the Social Democrats, and I am disappointed at you because you have so categorically rejected the adoption of this law, even though you have had the opportunity to act in this working group and have worked in it. From today's debate, you get the feeling if you don't know it as if you've been removed from this working group, which is not true. You may be afraid of an effective rational and transparent business with this state property. I also warn you that this is not and will not be a sale of state property. On the contrary, the law provides for a series of guards just before doing so. Last but not least, here in the National Assembly, we will also accept the classification on which the SDH administration adopts the strategy. The annual investment management plan shall also be published on the Slovenian State Holding website. That is how a series of these activities will enable us to have a direct view and control of SDH and its management. So far, we know that state property has been managed uncontrolledly and has often been mismanaged. Someone mentioned that the state property is our gold or silver, although I think that unfortunately we can no longer place it, at least most of the state's assets, among some of the noble metals, but probably more of the soft, pitiful. Among which, I leave each one to his own thought. Just because our state property, at least the one that still has a healthy core, could become more than those bad metals, we have here before us this Slovenian state holding company and the legislation that is written on it. It also operates under the same conditions as other companies, independent entrepreneurs and private individuals in pursuit of the purposes and objectives of this Act, and must not exploit its position. This seems very important to me, as it could also result in restrictions on competition or could restrict other companies, espouses and private parties in the market under consideration. The Supervisory Board also has a Slovenian State Holding, which consists of 9 members and is re-elected here in the National Assembly, indeed with an absolute ordinary majority. It also seems important to me that three members of this Supervisory Board are replaced every 20 months. This clause is very important because it follows everything that some people have concerns about. The Supervisory Board also oversees the implementation of the guidelines of the strategy and annual investment management plan and the operation of the Slovenian State Holding. The Supervisory Board also appoints the Accreditation Commission and the Audit Commission and the Risk Commission, so that it is indeed a number of guardians in this law, who also have control over the assets of members of the Board and members of the Supervisory Board and also procurists. This, as we know, is what the Commission is concerned about preventing corruption. I also support the provision in this law, namely that, by adopting this Slovenian State Holding Act, the functioning of the AUKN, which, as we know, did not always work in the spirit of a good host, in particular did not carry out its mission and responsibility well, as it did not always seek to improve the good practice of corporate governance and the implementation of the principle of transparency in the management of capital investments, and thus in some cases had little concern for the interests of the State as a shareholder or shareholder. In my opinion, the AUKN has also assessed very poorly the quality and responsibility of the members of the supervisory boards in these companies, because their operation, if I mention NLB and Dars, as we all know from the public, was contrary to the public interest. For all of this, I will support the Slovenian State Holding Act as it introduces a single management system, so that the Slovenian State Holding Company will effectively and in accordance with uniform principles and strategy manage state assets in a controlled manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u81	Mr. Mirko Brulz, after him, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Article 1 is when we can still discuss the content of this bill in general. First of all, I'd like to tell my colleague, Bojan Starman, who isn't here, and he said that pigs move away from the troughs when it's empty. Do you know what the problem is? The pigs are coming to the trough. And that's our concern now. Look, Peter King, financial authority, he said his thing. No one's paying attention to that. The transfer of 12 to 13 billion to a company operating under company rules is not the right procedure. We are social Democrats for corporate governance of this property, and this is also the OECD proposal. Nobody's paying attention to that either. The risk of the sale of property of all citizens and citizens is present in this case, and we know that the priority will be to pay the denationalisation property. That's about 1 billion that could solve the bank's problem. And why don't we freeze this problem, like we frozen our pensions, or we can take this solution later. We're setting up a new power center to decide everything. Now they were banks, not just Slovenian, but global ones. But it started in America, and we can learn a lot of bad things there. These banks are actually more dangerous than the armies. If we look at yesterday's reports from Spain, what caused these events. What's that? It's war. And that's not good. Now there is a holding company that will indirectly contribute to even greater distress for citizens and citizens. Speaking of 100,000 unemployed, etc. Look what we've done. EUR 20 million would solve the problem of Primorje, but then the Minister of Economy said it was not Santa Claus. This is not a solution to the economy and a solution to the problem that we read about and feel every day on the street. Holding would already have €4 billion in deficits at the start. Dars is offering him 3 billion, the Court of Justice a billion 160 million, etc., not to talk about solving the Bell and any other serious problems, while this law is also nomologically problematic, because you will have problems, even when we accept all these amendments, I am sure, as with Zujf, you will not know what we are dealing with. Here on this list of companies under Sodom and Kad, where we have shares, there is also HIT. This government could also sell HIT when this law is passed. As she sold, there has been a lot of sales at the office of the President of the Government, not to mention the pattern of sales of the Slovenian steel industry, which is a crime, and even today we should not talk about it to the members of the Financial Control Commission, because it is all business secrets, but millions of them have miscalculated, etc. We're really at risk of untransparent state property, so that if I use the term Bojan Starman, some pigs will be fed again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u83	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, then Mr. Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, even if you do not like to hear, unfortunately, all too many laws in the National Assembly are adopted in a way that prevents the law from being good. For this law – and for the vast majority of those who were sitting and participating in the working group – we agreed that it would be best to take this law out of the procedure and replace it with a new one. Unfortunately, that doesn't work. If the law were to be adopted on a regular basis, it could also be today or perhaps a week later with a significantly different way of working. The law enforcement service then gave an extensive opinion on the basic law, and I'm just going to read you a few things. "In the opening, we note that in the part of the draft law relating to the status and functioning of the Slovenian State Holding Company, this is a solution which deviates from the system regime. Any derogation from the legal system shall be recalled that this must be justified, since, on the basis of the creation, predictability and legal certainty, which are the fundamental elements of the rule of law and are therefore specifically justified. The bill is marked by a rather inaccurate expression, which often leads to ambiguity, ambiguity, indefiniteness and thus threatens the rule of law. In particular, we note that the explanation given to each article is mainly a summary of the text of the article and, in some cases, it even deviates from its contents, since it obviously refers to the text which was later adopted. We note this issue because we believe that the content and explanation of the proposal is necessary, since the explanation is an integral part of the bill." If I recall correctly, about an hour ago, under the Personal Assistance Act, you explained for the same reasons that you would not be able to support the parties to the Coalition's marriage. You didn't have any problem here, you just voted "yes" and then, as my colleague said, because of some kind of forced political crisis, you pushed it all away. But this duality is enough. Let us always do the same, let us always take into account the opinion, or at least when you do not take it into account, do not respond to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service! You're our president, and you're the one who can work in the National Assembly. We are absolutely prepared for constructive and professional work and cooperation, which you are constantly calling for. By no means will we agree to sell our country cheaply under the cover of the crisis, ideologically share it, destroy public education, health care, the media, illegally changing supervisory boards and intimidate our citizens. If this is your call to "come together, let's be united and constructive", then of course we can't be around. It is true that there are some substantive questions, and I will now point out one key, and I hope that the Minister, who has unfortunately not been with us in these working groups, will respond. We will also clarify perhaps this biggest dilemma that arises with our colleagues in the SD – what is the advantage of transferring ownership from the Republic of Slovenia to state holding? But let's be honest, and let's say that this state-owned holding company is also 100 percent owned by the state and cannot be sold, according to the law. The ownership of everything we have now will be transferred to a holding company, which will be held in 100 percent of the country's property. And somehow it is not entirely true that, or by adopting this law, we will sell out all our assets, because we will really get into the National Assembly a strategy of what we will sell, in what shares, in what methods, and then we will talk about what we will and what we will not sell. But at the beginning, because this is Article 1 and then a few amendments, so I'll talk about the rest of the content later, Mr Minister, I'd like to get a clear answer from you about what we get when we transfer the ownership of this property to the holding company. I would like to warn you on these calls "let's go together, be constructive" and say that in Positive Slovenia we have introduced a law that is similar to the one you have just prepared in terms of how we manage everything in one place. The key difference is where this property of our property remains. But even that marriage of ours despite calls, let's do it, suggest, you stopped very quickly, so to speak, without discussion on the Committee on Finance. Thus, in fact, we did not really have the opportunity to say what and how we imagined the management of our assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u85	Thank you. I do not think it is particularly necessary to explain that the type of procedure is decided by the leaders of the parliamentary groups, not by the President of the National Assembly. However, it is true that I always say my opinion on whether I agree with the urgent procedure or not, and you know that I have also made a significant contribution to the fact that the consideration of this law has been postponed from July to September, that this time has been opened in between, as I have seen, but you have come to a great extent together. Mrs. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u86	Times are serious, problems are big, and we would welcome unity. Unity, however, is overestimated if we are not all at a similar source of mutual trust. I tell this government what it's called, it's got an agenda. And this agenda is a mass privatisation of state property. And that's what I'm standing on today. I can conclude that in the summer months following this coordination, the law was slightly improved, although the National Assembly obtained some formal application in the investment management process. Nevertheless, I still do not see a clear answer to the simple question of what, as we change the capital investment management model of the Capital Investment Management Act, we gain from the agency headed by this law by the Slovenian State Holding Company. I would like to believe that all political stakeholders in this country and in this National Assembly are in the interest of finally getting to the quality management of our assets, because this property represents a potentially high-quality source of our public finances through dividend payments to the state budget, but it also represents an important development function for the state-owned economy. In a number of areas where these state-owned enterprises are present today, from energy to telecommunications, to pharmaceuticals, to ownership and development of some part of the state infrastructure. I'd like to believe that's our common goal. However, I fear that this is not our common goal, that part of Slovenian policy is firmly determined to enforce classical ideological division here. Mrs Hočevareva has actually admitted this before. The country is a bad owner and it has to be sold. So that the all-powerful private owner can come, and then he'll make it all worth his while. Forget about that story. The economic and financial crisis is not the result of the country as a bad owner, the economic and financial crisis is the result of speculations by private investment banks. These same banks, by the way, which I hear some in the Slovenian government are already talking about how they will help them with the US market's dollar bond placement. In return, these same banks will come up with advisory contracts on how to sell the most valuable items in this country in a matter of months. And these are good companies, my dears. Telekom Slovenije, who has been on a political stalemate all the time, and God knows what politics has created in it, is today, technologically speaking, one of Europe's highly competitive telecommunications companies. Krka is certainly one of the companies that are on the global performance scale of generic drug manufacturers. Slovenian energy is good energy and can achieve our national energy restructuring goals, achieve climate objectives and pursue the interest in secure and competitive energy supply. And there are many such companies where, even though politics has not been able to sustain the involvement of these companies, these companies have been relatively good at business and have ensured some development. What is constantly the temptation of Slovenian politics is that as soon as it comes into power, it understands this country as a prey. And it manifests itself today in this law. Otherwise, political participation in the supervisory council of the Slovenian State Holding Group cannot be understood. It departs from the practice that we have established in good faith to establish the country as a good owner of businesses, because we understand that the country can be an important owner of the economy, but that its regulatory and ownership functions must be separated on the other hand. The Slovenian state holding company has not carried out this separation, so in October, Mr Minister, you will face an assessment of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, because the regulatory and ownership function under the concept of the Slovenian State holding company is in the hands of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, within the policy deadline, in the hands of the ministers who will decide on the regulation on the one hand which would provide the same rules for all stakeholders in the free market and, on the other hand, decide on the basic ownership issues of the State as the owner of the companies. And that's why the model itself is wrong. So I can't even talk about what else can be fixed in this law because the model itself is wrong. If we wanted good state property, if we wanted good to the country, and if we wanted good to the development goals of that country, we would insist on the concept of the Capital Investment Management Agency and implement what the new recommendations of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development impose on us. This is to resolve the question of Kada, Soda and AUKN, issues which Mr Pogačnik referred to earlier as open questions. Yeah, that still needs to be resolved. Yes, it is possible to strengthen the Agency's responsibility vis-à-vis the National Assembly, it is possible to increase transparency and it is possible to correct any error made by the Agency in the management of capital investments in the past. These mistakes, my dears, are significantly less than the mistakes that politics has made in its insatiable fragmentation of state property. That's why I can't support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u87	Mag. Majda Potter. And behind her is Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! Under Article 1 of this Law, I would like to say why I will not support the law. Unfortunately, those who previously had a lot of comments on the position of the Group of Social Democrats are not in the Chamber, but some words must be made. I have never understood the country as an undertaking myself, so I also have doubts about the findings of all those who believe that, as far as the remaining assets are state-owned, all assets could have been transferred to some economic operator who, it is established, from a number of debates also argued, in fact, the policy has retained fundamental decision-making, even though they all claim in one voice how the policy must be withdrawn from the economy. I don't know if it's social demagogism or if it's just an experience brought by years, but when people made decisions about a new country so massive, we had great expectations. And where was the biggest disappointment? Just privatisation and unfulfilled expectations and crowds of unemployed and early pensioners. And when one of the colleagues says to 100,000 unemployed that it is so attractive to the hair, let's look at the data on how much unemployment the first wave of privatisation has brought and what some industrially most developed environments have been experiencing, what pauperization have been experiencing. I don't want another wave of this weakening of people's power or actually increasing their powerlessness in the face of events. And if I look at these calls, which can be heard by using different words, from the consolidation of policy to the unification of policy, and I don't know what else, it would be good to ask ourselves. I see only the consolidation of the coalition, which has decided on some project for the plan it wants to carry out, and it does not hear and see anything else. But look, if we all agree that this country is not doing well, we will no longer agree when we ask ourselves why this country is in trouble, how can this country be saved from the situation and beyond. To think that policy unification is possible when we do not see that the people who elected us have different ideas about what society should be and how wealth should be allocated in this country. I really don't know if you can see that even in traditional old democracies, because Churchill was quoted earlier, it is possible to hear claims that social inequality in the country is too great and that these scissors of social inequality should be slowly closed, not dissipated and even torn apart by scissors. You say the deadline offered was not accepted. See if the time was meant to negotiate, discuss, draw closer to each other, but let us ask ourselves in what parts of their relationship and in which parts they did not. We're Social Democrats, I'm not, but experts have been involved in the group. But if it's all been heard, if things haven't been done at those points, you don't say we're just tearing it apart, but we don't say anything. That's not true! Two of my colleagues have already said that the fundamental question is whether it makes sense to include the amendments in a law that is so set in the concept that we cannot support the concept. However, we have tabled amendments, and at every step we propose things as they would be, and we also point out this. No one among us has ever claimed that there were no bad experiences with the AUKN. At the same time, however, it was necessary to say what they were meant to do and to ask why the AUKN could not perform its function more effectively. Logically, I can ask myself why it had to be destroyed, and it was politically destroyed, because just remember how we solved it, and how we tried to name others, and only the human resources offer is a kind of example of how politics has a great appetite for these things. If I look at the introduction to the proposed law, it is clearly written that there has been a rift between the management authority, namely the AUKN, and the Government. All that happened then was a post-festum. But here is a fundamental observation that no strategy has been adopted and other strategic documents, and annual management plans and so on. And in this law it is also possible to read in the introduction that the main solutions to this law are the definition of an investment management strategy, the definition of an annual investment management plan. Well, I'd like to ask where and how it's defined. I read a lot of things, and I hear a lot of things. And what I did with all these calls, how the Slovenian State Holding needs to be accepted, and with a lot of niche, no matter what happens then, is only to be accepted, and after we accept it, but we will say something else, I cannot ignore the statements of the Minister of Finance, who is already predicting what will be sold. And I don't know, my household logic tells me if some successful firm, some successful economic entity that brings you one unit of profit a year, sells for five units of that profit because the situation is bad, I wonder if this is the moment where it's wise to sell if in these five years only the profits are what the whole purchase will be. Why shouldn't we ask ourselves what my mind tells me, whether it's wise to sell it or not? Let us now leave aside the fact that we also know from Europe's experience how smart countries always leave state property for bad times. I'm looking at Hungary, and I can't say that all the sale of property has made everything happy. Recently, Prime Minister Ivan Janša visited Ireland and studied there. Experts say they don't know if Ireland is just a smart example. When they call on the opposition to be more cooperative and all that the coalition proposes to support without any doubt or reservation, they then refer to Spain. I don't want a Spanish story to happen to us. Everything else. Only if I remember yesterday. Because now, we've been saving, now we're going to have to forgive, and I'm looking at how many public servants around the country are forgiving, and I'm just asking myself, they were absolute numbers, but if they were talking about percentages, the story would be completely different again. And I'm sorry, I'm afraid of such instantaneous changes, I don't attach to them, and I think it's irresponsible if something is said to be social demagogy, but it's based on professional concerns, but we have as a party our political ideas, which are not built on the neoliberal or conservative concept of society, and we have all the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u89	Replica, mag. It's a cakemaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u90	Yeah, it's a replica of a colleague named Potrat. Above all, I was disturbed by the fact that the working group did not take into account the proposals made by the Social Democrats, so I would count them. We took into account the proposal to remove a bad bank from the law. We have taken into account the proposal that the Capital Society remain a separate legal person within the holding company. We have taken into account the proposal of the Social Democrats that the Blue Insurance Company remain a subsidiary of Kad. We have taken into account the SD proposal that the mandatory pension fund should remain in Kad. We have taken into account the SD proposal to include the anti-corruption clause and we have taken into account the proposal that the holding company cannot freely dispose of Kada's investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u92	Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Article 1 states that this law governs the status and functioning of the Slovenian State holding company, the transfer of investments by the Republic of Slovenia in the holding of SDH, the management of investments and acts, and the management of investments. The following paragraph: "In pursuing the purposes and objectives of this Act, SDH shall operate under the same conditions as other companies, independent entrepreneurs and private individuals in the relevant market, without exploiting its position which may result in a restriction of competition or could restrict other companies, independent entrepreneurs and private persons in the relevant market." Mr Minister, there is a Minister of Economy missing who can explain to me how this company will work if it respects what is written here so that it does not restrict competition. It's simply not an economic society anymore, that's what it is today. And that's how our state assets, ladies and gentlemen, don't work. Of course, there is a problem here today, which is obvious, for example, to the Social Democrats, and I think it would be right to say what can happen and why we oppose it. Let's just say, you know, it doesn't matter if Gorenje's share is sold and a owner is established who will not be ours and will move out of Slovenia. And that's actually what's going to happen today or in the near future. There's been enough talk about the frame-up. Some say they're half-breeded by companies. I'm strongly protesting! There may be a company that has broken down, it can be on a bad footing, but these are good companies that we are talking about today. And these companies and companies are on this paper 25, and those on the Court and Kad are about 30. The total is 50 companies and their shares. It should therefore be said that this is a theft of social and state property. In 1991, most of this was ours, in common. After the first degree of privatisation, we privatized and destroyed everything that was already being discussed. Now we have the last degree of privatisation and sale of what we still have. People need to be told that from here on out, there is no common state property! Not the state, not the government, but that from here on out, if we sell it, we don't have the one that was ours anymore. And if we've talked so much about socialism, I'm sorry, everything that socialism has done, we've actually sold today. Of course, the problem is one that we may not be talking about today. We have already cut 26 thousand pensioners' pensions without saving what should be saved here. And the question is, will we be able to ensure in advance, without agreement, all that pensioners deserve? Now there's one more thing. Mr. Minister, what is the objective? What will we ensure that we do, and what will be the results when we design this holding? What will be the results? How many new jobs are there? How many jobs are we gonna open up? The fact that we don't have a strategy for selling what was ours is so and so, what are we going to do on the basis of that? [[...]] Tell me, ladies and gentlemen, what are you planning? How many new jobs? What's gonna happen? How much less is it going to go down? What kind of ratings are we gonna have? All of this is the essence that we have to say in a way. For all of this, we must also say that we are opposed to the fact that we are superiors — we are not. But what we want to say is that what is happening today is the transfer of assets to a private company, to a society whose ownership will be the country, the Republic of Slovenia, and its influence will be absolutely political. For all of this, it is right to exclude politics. And all those who said that when we design the Slovenian State Holding, we will eliminate politics – sorry, politics comes through the big door! That is why, of course, I will not support this amendment. And I strongly oppose the way in which it is transferred, and also the way in which it will be staffed in this so-called new Slovenian private holding company, which we do not even know today, whether it will really restrict competition to all those, say in the field of energy, in the field of, I don't know, white techniques, or anything else. So he won't limit it to allow anyone to do what he wants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u93	The word is given by the Minister Dr. Šuštersič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Perhaps the main question raised in this debate on Article 1 is what is the main advantage that we think we have by holding it, why we have proposed it. The main advantage is the concentration of uniformity in the management of these investments. We don't have that situation right now. It's scattered. The objectives for which this is managed are also different. There is a very clear difference between the country and the owner and the government, which is the role of the owner or the operator. We had, for example, a time ago when one of the state-owned owners wanted to sell his share in an enterprise because he was forced to do so in order to cover his obligations under the law of course, and an extraordinary meeting of a committee in the National Assembly was even convened on this purpose. Thus, a conflict between the interests of the owner and the interests of the operator. We're putting this together to a greater extent. The second thing is more transparent, simpler processes in this society. To be a sell-off here is actually a pretty fun piece of work. If anyone wanted to sell off state property, it could be done legally with all the powers already in the current regime, and you all who are sitting here know that. All that is needed is for the parliamentary majority to adopt the capital investment management strategy and put it into implementation and write it down there to sell everything. This can be done now. If our main intention was to sell assets, there is absolutely no need to adopt this law. Another time. What this holding company will do with its investments, with its shares in companies, will be determined by the strategy. This strategy will be adopted by the National Assembly. Until the strategy is prepared in accordance with the statutory procedure, the National Assembly will adopt a classification of investments that will set the target shares and also the methods of sale. Previously, it was asked why there was no public sale. Because it is not always the best, but there are different examples, different ways of selling, but it is stated in the law that in classification and strategy ways will also have to be defined. And that will be decided by the National Assembly. As long as the classification is not accepted, the law also states that any alienation of the capital investment requires the consent of the National Assembly. This is said to be no intermediate period, although we are hearing a lot about it, in which the holding company, at its own discretion or at the direction of anyone without the consent of the National Assembly, could sell its shares in companies. The third observation, which I find quite amusing, is that shares in state-owned enterprises will be sold to finance current consumption, the expenditure of the budget. Of course, that's not possible. It's already outlawed today. The only exception that exists is that which is in law because the vast majority of Members and Members of the groups so wished. This is the exception that says that when a property is sold, 10% goes to Kad and the current expenditure of the pension budget is financed. This is the only case where by selling assets we can finance the current expenditure of the budget, and for that we have a legal basis, and we do not have it because I propose it, but because so did the vast majority of this National Assembly and the social partners. Why, however, do I think that the share of the country in some companies should be reduced? Because I believe that this can improve governance, so that other investors can also receive signals that would come into Slovenia with direct investment and also by entering purely private companies as a strategic partner and so on. Intransparency readings. The law has an anti-corruption clause, it also provides for reporting. These things are in the marriage. But you're comparing this law to the current state of affairs. All these observations I'm listening to could be considered to a much greater extent to the present state of affairs. It was said that the holding company would be able to sell without consent. I've already explained why that's not true. Today, however, we would have a situation in which the AUKN could manage these shares without any agreement. Once and for all, the Court can do so without the Government's consent if we do not propose amendments to the law at the beginning of the mandate on the management of capital investments, by which we have established this agreement in this law. And you weren't too happy about it. Now we'd like to have more consensus and so on. What I also wanted to say is two answers, namely, to Mr Frangež, or one request and one offer. I hope you can take this to him, or he'll probably read a magnetogram. Beg your pardon. It has been said that we are negotiating with some banks to participate in the entry of the Slovenian state bonds in exchange for obtaining some advisory contracts. This is a serious accusation. This is an accusation of corruption. I'd like to ask if there's any evidence, suspicions, information pointing this way to let me know that I can take action. I don't know about any such negotiation, and I wouldn't approve of it. It should be noted, however, that the credibility of the issue of Slovenian bonds on any market in the coming months depends on whether or not we will be able to pay the expenditure from the budget regularly in the coming months. Pensions, social transfers, wages and what is most likely to be the most important, budget commitments to economic operators. A statement made by a member at a public meeting may give rise to doubts. I believe that the international public has Members of the National Assembly for serious people and responsible people. And I believe that many would assume that a Member would not say such a thing if he did not have some serious basis for it. I will certainly have some questions, as I have been in some other case, when something has been discussed in the National Assembly, what we are actually going to do and what we are going to do. Of course, I'm going to deny it because I don't know anything about it, and I really don't think anything like that is happening. I would like to ask because the ongoing financing of budgetary expenditure is probably in the common interest that we abstain from such statements unless we have certain solid grounds for them, but then I would ask that I be informed of this in any other way than through a debate in the National Assembly. And the second question, or the offer, is a lot of talk about the OECD's comments. We talked to the OECD many times, the last time we were here at Bled, we kept sending them new versions of the law. Their attitude toward marriage has always been positive. Even those matters that we have made public have never, in the end, objected to their opinions being published, were positive, and we have also interpreted them. Your interpretation was different. However, if you want the Social Democrats to put themselves in the position that whatever the OECD says about this law needs to be accurately written into it, then I have a very simple offer. When the Secretary-General of the OECD visited Slovenia in Bled, he made it very clear that the OECD believes that a fiscal rule should be enshrined in the Constitution. On the day that I hear the opinion of the Secretary-General of the OECD that you will vote in favour of the fiscal rule, I will propose to the Government that any OECD comment on this law should be taken into account accurately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u95	Does anyone else want to discuss Article 1? I'm opening the application. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u96	Thank you. I just want to make up for a little bit or fix Minister Šuštersič. You call it concentration. The concentration of assets can also be achieved in the Capital Investment Management Agency – is that so? Maybe it is. You've merged now Kad, Sod, PDP, etc. in holding company. The only advantage is that someone in the holding company will say that the money from the sale has to be paid for denationalisation. We need to know that Dars will be in holding, too. Dars has a debt of 3 billion. The denationalisation or the Court of Holding has a billion 600, and what will happen is that the money generated by energy will go towards paying off Dars' debts – where will the money for development go? In fact, holding is untransparent because it freely allows the transfer of money from energy to Dars or, if you want, from Dars to somewhere else, the ultimate goal is denationalisation and we have to say it out loud. It is not the development of Slovenia, but the payment of denationalisation. There can be no transparent processes if the holding company itself redistributes funds between these companies. This is untransparent, opaque and the National Assembly has no chance of monitoring what is happening within this process. We could've started the sale by now. Are you saying that the Court did not initiate a sale procedure for any of the Slovenian companies? Strategy. If we were to take state property management seriously, we should have a strategy at the meeting of the National Assembly first today. Each ministry should prepare how it views the development of energy, infrastructure, all the areas for which it is responsible, and after we have adopted the strategy adopted in the National Assembly, we are discussing the form of governance. It was the right form. Now, however, the National Assembly will give its consent to the strategy. We won't have a chance to create a strategy. We can only agree or not. If the National Assembly does not agree, it will work in accordance with the guidelines to be laid down by the Government and will be cut off from the decision. This is a fact that we want to reiterate, and I do not know how many times it will be pointed out that the National Assembly will not have an impact on the management of this property. Anti-corruption clause, you say. Please tell me the Court of Auditors will not review the holding company. The Court of Auditors examines the capital investment management agency because it is a state authority – holding is not a state body! Whether holding will be committed to public information – it will not be because it is an economic society. It's the agency. Don't talk to me about transparent management and there won't be an uncontrolled sale of property! Comments from the OECD. The OECD has issued a very positive position on capital investment management in the way implemented by the Capital Investment Management Agency. Why didn't you take that into consideration? Why you have not taken this into account is still my question when we are talking either about an agency or a company to which we transfer 13 billion assets and are managed as if it were privately owned. That's a crazy difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u97	Mr. Marijan Pojbič, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u98	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. First of all, I must say that I am a little sad when I listen to the debates of certain Members and Members of Parliament when they say everything else, but not what I would expect them to say. We all acknowledge together that we are in an extremely difficult situation in this country, and the fact is that it is imperative to find solutions that will bring this country forward. The fact is, for the situation as it is in the country, each one of us sitting here today is, in our own way, guilty of being in such a state. The fact is that in this area that we are discussing today, we have in the past been able to see that things are not working, and we have all come to the conclusion that we need to find the right solutions. At the same time, the current government, when proposing certain changes in this area, I am sure that I have given absolutely enough time to all parliamentary groups, to the general public, so that it can speak and co-form this law, which is today under discussion in the National Assembly. However, if you have no interest in changing anything in this area, then any discussion, any debate, can last a year, two or five, is irrelevant. If someone wants things to stay the way they are, if someone advocates such a situation in one way or another, then he has no interest in making some decisions that go to better solutions than they have ever been. All of us here know roughly what is the key issue with regard to the management of state property. Today, Mr Frangež spoke about the policy of breaking down state-owned enterprises. True, he has not lied, but we must ask ourselves, who is the policy that led this country in the previous term, who has led this country so many and so many mandates and who are the key networks that are breaking through state-owned enterprises. We have an interesting case in Maribor, Elektro Maribor and so on. Who can speak to me – and I have already said this before, and I am not talking about people that something is wrong with them, which are politically defined, but we are talking about some expertise and so on and that politics should not interfere with the functioning of state-owned enterprises. Who can tell me, and who even has a face among the debaters from the Social Democrats, that I am convinced here that politics breaks down state-owned enterprises? That makes sense because you did it yourself! I'm not saying you Members did this, but that's right! And we've all done it! I hope myself that I have never abused politics in order to engage in such processes. Look, Mr Minister said three, four things very specifically, which I think are also – and why I will support this first article and this law – very important. He said: uniform government management, simpler processes, anti-corruption clause, greater responsibility and a clearer responsibility for those who manage this holding company. Today, however, I have always listened to the debates when the National Assembly is deprived of the possibility of continuing to participate in this process when it comes to managing state property. But the Minister made it clear that this law will be followed by a strategy adopted by the National Assembly, a parliamentary procedure. And that will be the key: which companies, with what share and what order will be sold if sold. Today, however, it is impossible to repeat phrases all the time – that I will not use another term – suddenly sell all the gold, i.e. Slovenian gold, in one year. Today, one of the debaters made it very clear, he said that many years ago this asset was worth 30 billion or more billion euros, today it is only worth 10 billion. How can one of the discussers say this is gold? It's not even bronze anymore than what used to be gold. This is mainly because these state companies did not have the most responsible operator with this state property and because they actually broke the policy behind it. If these companies are sold once, the ones that we will assess together here, that they are possible and should be sold, there will be no longer a chance that one, another, fifth or tenth government will be able to break down businesses because owners will not allow it. And that's right! Even people and workers, employees will have jobs, and certainly a lot better salaries than they have today, and companies will expand and so on. That's why I'm sure here too – laughter, everyone has a right to it, but that's the way it is. I am convinced that this decision, this proposal and this bill proposed by the Finance Ministry or the Government, is said to be in the right place at the right time. You all had your chance to work together to make this marriage the way we all want it together. And one more thing. Almost each of the discussers today reiterated that we must stand together. How is it possible that today, after we have drawn so close to certain positions in this law, we are again at a perfect crossroads? I don't understand. I hope, I really hope, and I want us to really step together once and make one move and move with this country forward and get off these networks that keep us in check. Yesterday, before yesterday, I listened to debates by Members of all the parliamentary groups – and no one can deny it because these Members are sitting here today, in this Parliament – who feel exactly the same way about being kept in check by networks. These networks need to be cut once in a row so that the Slovenian people can live with their lungs full. We cannot have only privileged groups, those who live as gods, and on the other hand the majority of the Slovenian people, who have nothing more to live on. Today, nothing has been heard about banks and so on what we will do in this area. The minister has here, thank God, solutions. Where have these solutions been for the last three years? Why was the banking system able to do what he was doing? I certainly didn't do it, not even you sitting in here, but some people did it with some help to bring this country into this situation. This has to be cut. I hope you're all here in the National Assembly. We have to stop, no matter who it's from and why. The people who did so are also responsible; if they are proved to have acted contrary to the law and so on. But we don't have that time for the next ten years. Today the Minister has made it very clear what the public financial situation is like in the country. Who will take responsibility if, in September, October, teachers, judges and I don't know who else, pensioners don't get pensions? Who? The one who, at every moment in Slovenian public and in newspapers around us, is explaining that we have enough time, that there is no critical situation in our country at all? You don't just live on the moon, you might already live on Mars! Unfortunately, I have to say this. And that's irresponsible! So please, let's gather so much strength, come together on the things we know we need to do. This law is not written on the skin of the government, it is not written on the skin or position, it is not written on the skin of a third network, but I am sure that it is written on the skin of most citizens and citizens because it is their property. Nobody's gonna sell this gold just like everyone likes to talk. For the last 15, 20 years, I have heard from day to day, even when I was not in Parliament, about national interest. This national interest has led assets from 30.35 billion euros to 10 billion. Is that a national interest? Can anyone explain this to me? My dears, we're at this point. I am sure that at this point we must stop this and step forward for the benefit of all of us who are here and all those who live in this beautiful country of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, distinguished Minister Dr. Šuštersič! I am very pleased and pleased to hear the discussions of some Members and Members who are constructive, aware of the situation that Slovenia is in today. Perhaps my thought will be a little hard, perhaps too dramatic and perhaps if I listened and listened to him as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, I would judge the closed part of the session. Slovenia is in an extremely difficult situation; probably not because of the eight-month rule of this coalition. At least here we're united. It is because of mistakes made by Slovenia practically throughout its 20-year and more period. Today, Slovenia is in intensive care, and if I look at a monitor that shows a heart rate, sometimes I see an uninterrupted line. Indeed, I am extremely afraid for this country, which was created by the will of the Slovenian nation and by the great love of the Slovenes and the great desire to have its country. Maybe politics in recent years has been too macho for this country, which is owned by Slovenes and Slovenians. I will continue to agree with my distinguished colleague Matjaz Han, whom I respect. We met eight years ago when I first came to the National Assembly. He found out that the ratings were still dropping. Of course! Probably no one expected that at the moment the new Slovenian government swore here, credit ratings would go up. Why are they falling? Because credit rating houses assess and see the truth that Slovenian policy cannot be unified; and because it is not able to unify, it is unable to adopt any reforms. Reforms are those tectonic movements in Slovenian legislation that would bring something good for the well-being of all Slovenes. True, colleague Han, these laws that we have adopted have really removed some bureaucratic obstacles, perhaps even agreeing that some have even had a cosmetic character. But look, when I talk to employers today, to builders — those who are still above water — they ask us, from this Parliament, to adopt tectonic different labour legislation, as we now have, which we all know is extremely socialist and extremely unional. With all due respect to the union movement, but not at the expense of jobs. Since this government will not create jobs, it must not create them. I will be happy if it reduces them where it is in its competence, because there are too many unproductive jobs and Slovenian taxpayers all of this simply cannot be paid anymore. We must once complete our transition and, in fact, think a little differently, stop once and for all with the socialist thinking model. We're simply not able to do this, because I'm hearing today that we wouldn't sell it. This coalition, which has been given a mandate to manage this country, has decided to take all transparent steps to withdraw from the economy. We know that we've been doing this general for 20 years so that a simple state can't manage state property. Today I ask you, colleagues and colleagues, is someone willing to buy, say, a financial institution in Slovenia for one euro, and this one has, say, one billion losses? Is anyone willing to buy it? I can't see any hands. One in the back, and I don't think he's serious. He's not an MP. He's serious, but he's not an MP. Look, but then we object to someone having an interest in buying such an institution – not for one euro – I am the first to give it not at such a price, but at a market price. Today we are also talking about twelve, fourteen billion. Yeah. No one can tell by what methodology is fourteen, thirteen, twelve billion. Maybe it's a book value. The market value shall be marketed. Is that right? That's right! No one takes us seriously abroad anymore. This, too, should probably be said in a closed session. I'm sorry. We can't unify ourselves. Thank God, we are united, the Slovenian policy was unified last week, 20th of this month, about a bank outside Slovenia, but it seems that Slovenian public does not care as if it does not matter. I am pleased, however, that at least here we have achieved and, in fact, by one voice, communicated to the European and global public what we think about, I will now say very broadly, the enlargement process of the European Union. It is true that time is not an accounting category, but it can also have serious financial effects. That is why, colleagues and colleagues, I would only expect us to unify in July with regard to the adoption of the proposal for a Slovenian State Holding Act. At the July session, we said: no, let's stop and call the working group, and we did. Each parliamentary party has proposed people to the working group. They should be congratulated. With what colleague Marko said, which proposals were adopted by colleagues from the Social Democrats, I am very pleased and can say that there was an informal agreement between us, namely between the coalition and the opposition, or at least with the Social Democrats, on the Slovenian State Holding. And if then, in July, we said to stop and continue the fall – see, in my calendar it is now autumn and I think it is now the right time to graduate this topic of Slovenian State Holding and to take care of the implementation as soon as possible. I also fully understand that it is human for colleagues who have drafted and adopted the law that created the Capital Investment Management Agency to not like that we have written in the Coalition Treaty that we will end the AUKN. It's totally human to disagree with what you've done and what's being done now. But I've been monitoring the establishment of the AUKN from the outside, unfortunately or happily. The AUKN was created – I said this on the committee and now I repeat that it will be more successful – the AUKN was created on the basis of problematic legislation, so Prof. Bogomir Kovac. Professor Kovac isn't who you are. I would very much like to listen to internationally established professors and economists, and I would also like to have something written for us, Members, in the future, in the main office of the National Assembly or individually, because I like to read and listen to such opinions. So, Kovac: "On the basis of problematic legislation, the AUKN was created, of course, in a normal institutional void. The Agency is supposed to be a guardian and head of state investment, a custodian and a staff selector of the supervisory boards." We talk so much about political cadres. Of course, if we had long ago privatized this state property, which is now of very little value, we would have no more of these debates. It is perfectly normal for the government to recruit that this is political recruitment, because the government is a political body. I have absolutely no problem with Mrs Dagmar Komar being close to the Social Democrats – it is normal, because this is her freedom. That after she was appointed president of the board, she froze her membership card, but even if she did not, I don't mind it at all, every man has freedom in the political definition. And if the government is in charge, the government is a political body, so it's political. Of course, the smart government will also employ capable and competent personnel. And further on on the AUKN: "The Agency for Capital Investment Management is not an economic company, nor is it a typical state authority, we can say that it is some kind of mutant," and so Professor Rajko Pirnat, who is not who he is in this country, was, not least, a minister in the independent government. I now conclude by announcing my support for the amendment to Article 1 governing the status of the Slovenian State holding company. Thank God, the Slovenian state holding company is or will be an economic company, which means that it has different leverages of management from the state authority, such as an agency that has had a very strange combination of organs and so on, but now this agency is being shut down. Look, there's another thing. When we followed the policy through the media in the past mandate, we saw how many problems this AUKN caused to the then coalition, especially the left three. We have always watched disputes between President Pohor and then Minister Golobic. How, then, can an ordinary citizen create an objective picture, and how can he say that this solution is optimal? I could also say a lot about TES 6, where we have also seen arguments in the previous coalition, and yet I think that somehow we have graduated from this issue and I hope that the state guarantee will never be cashed. Thank you very much. And I want a happy implementation of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u101	Thank you very much. It's two replicas. First, Mr Matjaž Han has a replica of the execution of Mr Horvath, although you were quite understood, so it is only partly the reason for your replica, but please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I knew this vice president would give me his word. First, Jože, the ratings began to fall not because of bad laws, but because the previous opposition had collapsed in the previous term because of its desire for the power of reform, which was crucial to my notions. At that time, Prime Minister Borut Pahor said publicly and clearly that these reforms, which have fallen, which have been helped to bring down the previous opposition, will cause ratings to fall. It's all done. Then you took power, you took a bunch of measures; no pointer went into a cycle to go up! Not a single pointer. Thus, this law, which we are adopting today, will not correct our country's credit ratings. It's just a concept of managing companies that you have different than we do. By making the OECD have significantly more comments on this concept of yours than it had on the concept of AUKN. That's one thing. Second. Mr Jože, I also deeply appreciate your opinion, I appreciate your thoughts, and I hope that you will remember when we discuss the supervisors that you have resolved in RTV, that Mr Pirnat also had an opinion there that this should not be done, and yet you have resolved this without a problem. So if you respect Mr Pirnat's opinion in this law, you should also consider him welcome to the RTV Supervisory Board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has a replica to implement the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u104	Dear Mr. Secretary, the Honorable National Assembly! I need to find out that my statement in the previous performance was premature. What I said about government bonds is speculation, it's something that circulates in the halls and in the rumors of well-informed people. I apologize for this and I believe that my debate in this part has been irresponsible, so I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u106	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! When I listen to you like that, I really need to say that I am slowly getting tired of the dry-cleaning and repeatings of many Members and Members of Parliament. I feel sorry for all the Slovenian public we are burdening and killing. Those who had previously had power accuse those who now have power and vice versa, and the country is in fact in a strong financial and economic crisis. One and the other can fuck with the ashes because you are responsible for the situation our country is in. Mr Horvat mentioned, today he notes that employers, those who are still alive, require tectonic different labour legislation. It is normal that we could have done so long ago if in this Slovenia we had applied the rule of expertise and the rule to stick to smart policies, development policies. No one is taking us seriously abroad anymore because we see, Mr Horvath, because we are leading a slave policy because we are leading such a policy that will further put us in trouble. I would like to move in Slovenia from a category of tracking countries to a category of those countries that create trends, because we have all the conditions and conditions we had yesterday, and we did not know how to make better use of them. Why? Is it now the AUKN or the state holding company? The legal form is irrelevant at all. What matters is what we do. Obviously we don't know that, and what's even sadder is, we don't even know. In all these preparations, I am most concerned about this uncertainty or the feeling that this government is not really 100 percent in its work, and also those on the side of the coalition regrettably, after everything you have said, do not give me personal confidence in your decisions. That's what we need to worry about. I'm afraid, but you don't know how to organize or you don't want to organize. Isn't there enough experts in this country who can give directions where we can take this country? In the first amendment, you wrote that "the purpose of the transfer of the Republic of Slovenia's investment in the ownership of the Slovenian State holding company, the management of investment and the management of investment procedures" is to "focus on the management of the investments of the Republic of Slovenia with a view to achieving stable ownership and the sustainable maximisation of the profitability and value of these investments in order to achieve economic and development objectives and public interest objectives" – I will sign. Only if it is implemented in practice. The problem is always in implementation. Paper takes everything. The following reads, "the transparent capital investment management system of the Republic of Slovenia by optimizing management costs" – I also sign. "To fulfil the statutory obligations of the Capital Society of Pension and Disability Insurance and the Slovenian Compensation Society" – I also sign. So it is not a problem of what is intended, because I believe that you have the right intention, but then the problem is that in practice this cannot be done as it should. I agree with all those who have warned that before the adoption, before the establishment of the Slovenian State Holding Company, we should already have a capital investment management strategy on the table. I don't know what's so hard about this and why it was that when the AUKN prepared the draft capital investment management strategy that it didn't accept it in any way. However, we should already, not today, tomorrow is too late to know what the strategic capital investments of this country are. But the strategy is the starting point of everything! The strategy will give us an answer, how, where, with whom and where it will lead us! An appropriate law shall then be adopted to support the strategy's records. No! No! We'll pass the law, and then we'll figure out what to do with this law. Wrong world. Nothing's wrong. Mr Tonin mentioned earlier that you have been dealing with this, I think a colleague or colleagues from SD and Mr Tonin, that it is wrong because politics is in charge. There's nothing wrong with political recruitment. It is right that politics is present at all times in the economy, but this policy must be developmental and not hindered or hindered. Unfortunately, in Slovenia this policy has always been insurmountable. Why? Because it is wrong for political personnel to be employed, not by profession, but by belonging, by how someone belongs and is loyal to his leader. That's the problem! Then, in fact, the responsible tasks, the management of the state and the management of companies where the state has capital investments are carried out, those who are not able to do so. Unfortunately, that's my conclusion. I'd be glad if I could find out differently. The first was the concentration of assets and the unity of management when we started talking about state holding. Therefore, too much emphasis has been placed on procedures, on simplifying sales procedures and we have talked too little, even today and ever before, about various development methods and how to increase the value of capital investments by the Republic of Slovenia and increase economic growth. We are dealing only with this problem of how it is actually possible to make it as easy as possible to sell; and this is what some colleagues and colleagues are afraid of. The problem is that the money is gone, the funding sources are too expensive, the public administration, which is too expensive, requires the sale of capital investments by the Republic of Slovenia in order to cover current operations. This is also the wrong world! It is also wrong for the European Union to disrespect countries such as Slovenia because the price of money for all Member States of the European Union is not uniform or at least about the same. Slovenia pays almost 8%, Greece 13, Germany around 1%, Austria similarly, and no one wants to call this European Union and ask why the price of money is not uniform for all – if we want to talk so much and sing a single monetary policy and a single fiscal rule. Wrong. This Europe does not want to help us, and we continue to lead the slave policy, act as if we are a local community or congregation in Germany and forget that we are a sovereign state. Let's stop running the slave policy! Let's move and blend into those countries that are creating trends! Let us get out of a group of countries that only follow blindly or are forced to follow blindly! In the past, in the state holding company and in every state-owned company, it has been shown that there has been a mismanagement error. Therefore, even now, when those who will be in charge of the workforce will be wise, smart politicians, and supervisors of those personalities who deserve it, who will not only look at their own interests, but interest for all Slovenes and Slovenes. The problem that worries me the most is that in the end, the price of the socially weak workers and pensioners must pay for all the projects that have been implemented and the poor political decisions that have been made. Where's the justice here? I ask all those who have had the honour to manage and manage not only the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia, but even the country for two decades and more. Let us learn from past experiences and put an end to mistakes. Tomorrow let our decisions be more responsible, more sober and more thoughtful. We have a smart policy, and then one day we may be satisfied with our country. You don't even consider experts, that's what I'm worried about. Mr. Kraljič has repeatedly warned about how to behave because he also has some experience in the world where they work properly. No! No! We're blowing off steam. Find another expert better than him if you don't trust him! And what worries me most is that people like you and people who have already tried a lot and experienced it, they're alerting you to the obstacles that you're going to face tomorrow. No, you are consciously rejecting all suggestions, all well-intentioned advice and going stubbornly forward. We really need to worry about that. Nevertheless, I believe and I want to believe that you will gather so much courage and strength that when you make the final decision – and if you will and how you will – you will indeed act for the good of this country. But not just a flossule in terms of the word for the good of this country, but eventually everything gets bad. We need more responsible people, we need capable people. Unfortunately, I don't recognize a hundred percent of these species now, and I wouldn't put my hand in a fire that is worthy of my personal trust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to the Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! Today I somehow expected the debate to go on in this positive sense. In fact, when I received all the amendments to this proposal for the Slovenian State Holding Act, and when I saw how many points we could agree on or the working group, I expected opposition Members to discuss today in a different tone, not in the same way that we used to discuss in many debates. Let me first touch on some of the discussions of respected colleagues, particularly a colleague who says it is a robbery of the century or a theft of the century. But let me tell him that for me, the biggest robbery and the greatest places of the century were when the former, already deceased, Mr Drnovšek called on citizens and citizens to invest their certificates in investment funds. This was the largest place of the century and place in Slovenia. And when you say that the only and true purpose of this law is actually that profits and businesses will be turned into the hands of some individuals, of course you mean the people of the Slovenian Democratic Party in particular. Let me tell you that in the past, if you remember – the one who is a little older – who had the opportunity to buy businesses after independence. Those who were presidents of the executive councils of the congregations, those who were chairman of the congregations, and those who had been in the highest political peaks in the past. And these same gentlemen and ladies want a bad Slovenia today. But those who want good for all citizens and citizens and not just for individual elites, we are being bullied, you call us to resign and deceive the Slovenian public in your old style. When you speak of us taking power, let me remind you that the coalition of five coalition parties has not taken power in this country, but has taken responsibility for the leadership of this country. If I look back, during the previous term of office, the mandate of the previous coalition – those opposition MPs who were also part of this coalition and who are very loud today, you are saying how you were then the biggest opposition party, which is also my party, the Slovenian Democratic Party, has broken down. No, dear colleagues and colleagues! You collapsed on your own. And when we wished to do some good to you through our Group in 2009, 2010 and 2011 that you should take some measures, unfortunately you didn't listen to the opposition at the time; you didn't listen to a single good proposal. I'm not gonna count them because you can look at them yourself. You have magnetograms, you have bill proposals, you have rejections of our marriage proposals, which have all gone to the benefit of making the economy live, to make it easier to cope with the financial, economic and social crisis, when proposals went towards opening new jobs, and unfortunately, all these proposals came across deaf ears. Mr Minister, let me congratulate you and the working group today on coordinating this bill that we have today Members and Members on the table of this Slovenian State Holding Act. I'll be happy to support the amendment myself and the entire marriage. Why? Because it follows the principles that many things in Slovenia should have followed since 1991, this is the principle of economy and economics, and in particular the principle of responsibility. By means of this law, we are once again proving that we are, in the Slovenian Democratic Party and in the other coalition parties, prepared to assume responsibility for the management of this country and the entire property of the country and to conclude with this. Yes, for years and years we have listened by the first President of Slovenia to the preservation of our country's silver or gold. And where did all this lead us? On the verge of bankruptcy, actually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u110	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, welcome back! Initially, I would like once again to touch upon friendly offers to participate in the drafting of this law. Yes, our experts have cooperated, some comments have been taken into account. However, a number of comments that were considered essential in view of our view of how to deal with this issue have not been taken into account; from how it is available with the Triglav Insurance Company, from the methods of surrender, the Supervisory Board, investment decisions to the adoption of the classification and so on, and, above all, thinking about why the form offered is better than the existing one we have. We have not received an answer to this question. The fact is that the AUKN agency we have has received a number of comments, and they have been justified, but it should be known that it is a separate and independent state authority and a direct budgetary user, subject to public financial rules, with the property of the country itself being managed, and we are transferring the holding from the country to this economic institution, which is a true economic company, the property of the country. It's an irreversible process, it's a transfer. And the company is not independent, it depends on the shareholders and it plays the role of the owner in particular. The next question that we have not received an answer to or that we doubt. This is actually a matter of transparency. You guarantee and should believe that the way management will be introduced by holding company is more transparent. No! No! We believe that it will be significantly less transparent because the role of the National Assembly in participating in these processes is significantly smaller than it was before. On the other hand, what has already been mentioned is that it will be possible to spill money and rescue those holes that will also be taken over by the holding company. In doing so, I would specifically mention Dars with 3 billion, then the Court and obligations towards denationalisation beneficiaries, in particular the Church of 1 billion and so on. Third thing. We are actually talking about form, not content first. The fact is that the AUKN has already drawn up a draft management strategy to be complemented by sectoral policies and so on and then brought to the National Assembly. In short, we'll say that certain things have already been done. We would first consider what we want in this country and then talk about which form is better. This is particularly true because the OECD claims that the creation of the AUKN has taken a step forward in the direction of corporate governance and, in particular, what is better than the solution you are offering to distinguish ownership and regulatory and development functions of the country. We believe that the holding company has taken a step backwards in this direction and that, in fact, a step has been taken only in the direction that, in some way, ministers and governments will continue to be able to make more political decisions than they are now. In particular, this confirms our thinking about holding and the control council and who will decide on its structure. This is the first question, but above all it is not guaranteed the transparency or influence of the National Assembly in subsidiaries, where ministers will continue to be able to decide and delegate things after the old manners of Kad and Sod, as they were in the past, which has already been criticised or reminds us of that famous story about the sale of Mercator or the shares of Kad and Sod, which happened in a specific office. Come in. Yes, indeed, the OECD has criticised the solutions we have in Slovenia in order to achieve a greater centralisation of ownership function. But this centralisation could also be achieved in a different way. Now, what did we get? Instead of transferring the Court and Kad to the AUKN and ensuring the centralisation of the ownership function, the Government proposes two holding companies; we will say the weakened Kad, who will continue to hold ownership functions in the state holding company, and the new state holding company, which will take over the Court, will supervise Kad and Kadovo Insurance Office Triglav. All of this under the supervision of ministers and governments. The third thing I would like to say is a question that we do not have an answer to in law, nor does it have an explanation. The fact is that last year the AUKN created or will generate around €70 million in revenue with dividends. This revenue is the revenue of the State budget. What we don't know what's going to happen is what's going to happen next with the dividends that are going to be created. They will go first for the payment of denationalisation beneficiaries, the resolution of the hole, the provision of funds for the functioning of the administration and everything else involved, whether this money will go into the state budget, except for what is intended for the pension insurance company. In any case, what bothers me the most is that you say that the basic starting point is that the country is a bad owner. We do not have 100 % of the certificate for this thesis, because there are also countries where these things work normally, of course, if they are in a transparent way, without political influence. In any case, the private owner is a better owner for his interests. Now I'm asking you, what do we have with Slovenian people today since their privatisation? What benefits have we gained from this? And this is the question that we need to talk about today, while we swear that in this way we will make things better and more appropriate for people by regulating the law. Above all, I would ask certain colleagues to stop scaring people with threats that there will be no money for teachers' salaries, etc. if we do not adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Michael Prevc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, once again a nice greeting! At the beginning of my debate, I regret to say that I am disappointed at the views of the Social Democrats, and especially at the views of a fellow Member of the Webra, who has so many doubts that he has so many questions, but we have never seen him in the working group, where all these questions were raised, on all these issues, which he is also putting forward today, several times has been answered and, last but not least, several times has been clarified. As a Member, he had every opportunity to attend this working group and to clear up all of his countless dilemmas and doubts that he has raised today. I can tell you that I'm also disappointed at the great measure of populism that you're going through. I am disappointed with the many inventions that are in these debates and the many assumptions you are making. You specify scenarios that were never discussed at all. What a denationalization! What a place for centuries! These are insults, strong accusations against all of us Members, and for things that have no basis at all. And if this is a vision, if this is a paradigm of social democracy, I can only wish you great happiness. However, I know that in the most developed European countries, the socialist electricity, the so-called left, certainly does not behave that way. Let me go on to say that, at the moment I am listening to this debate, I am even more convinced that there is an urgent need to make a change in the governance of state property, something must be done. I think that when we adopt today's law on the regulation of state property, we are on the right track. I am convinced that state property must be merged under one roof and managed centrally. This, of course, means the abolition of the Capital Investment Management Agency, the Agency's existence so far. To claim that this agency acted independently is, to put it bluntly, naive. Maybe that's what the former Prime Minister thought, but that's not what happened — how politicized it was! Or do you think that the requirement that state-owned companies buy the recapitalisation shares of New Credit Bank Maribor has grown on the greenery of the Management Agency for Capital Investments? No, no, no. Not to mention any flowers like that. For example, how infamous the path of the Human Resources Accreditation Council ended. His current president, Dr. Bogomir Kovac, after resigning from this presidency, could only say that this Human Resources Accreditation Council was the professional coverage of the government's political decisions. So please spare us any indication of the independence of the Capital Investment Management Agency. Unless someone can logically explain how, at the direction of the Capital Investment Management Agency in 2011, state-owned companies were forced to purchase recapitalisation shares of New Credit Bank Maribor. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have always supported the idea of managing state property in this way, as the new concept of this holding company envisages. Unfortunately, time is not our ally, let us be aware of this, honourable Members and Members. The confusion that reigns in certain companies is also the result of these irregular situations. We are slowing down to cause economic damage at a time when time is really not right. I understand that you would like to discuss this proposal somewhere by the new year, but I estimate that we are no longer six months old. Why - because today we simply can no longer be in debt for EUR 2.2 billion to satisfy the unions and all other budget users for another year. Hands on hearts, with the state's assets so far managed poorly, so it's only right to try something new. Talking about mass privatisation and scaring people how we're gonna sell it all out! Ladies and gentlemen, we have nothing left to sell! Now we're putting out the fires. Tell me, what is the value of an alleged 500 million-million-dollar state share of a bank that holds 1.5 billion extremely poor loans on the balance sheet! How much? Of course it's less than nothing. And that's a legacy! But the charges won't help. You have to save what you've got to get rid of. And the concept of managing state property needs to be changed. We also decide: this is strategic for the country, this is portfolio investment, this is worth nothing, and it would be better to sell because someone else will manage it. Let me just give you one example. For Telekom's share, in 2007 we would get about €400, and today we don't even get 100 euros for the package. Do you really think that Telekom would be doing worse today if he owned someone who would pay billions of euros for him - you think that Telekom would be making 211 million losses in 2010, that's 211 million government money that went missing in suspicious business? You think a private owner would let that happen? Probably the other way around. To understand each other, state infrastructure, that's energy, etc. – there will always be investments for which it is right to remain in state ownership, but a concrete plan, a long-term strategy must be made, and that is what today's proposal for this law is. Unfortunately, until now, we didn't even know what to do tomorrow, let alone what to do with state property, in a few years' time. In the Slovenian People's Party, the real alternatives in the form offered by the holding company were simply not found. Nor did the special working group working on this matter find an alternative proposal, nor did the opposition today offer any better proposal, no alternative proposal. Just what we have now and what the opposition advocates is completely impractical. We have the Court, Kad, DSU, PDP, insurance companies, property, minority shares in companies, direct ownership of the state; in short, it is all one brooch, if I can express myself in this way, managed by countless institutions. This is certainly an environment for thousands of interests and the promotion of motives for personal exploitation of individuals. The government and the National Assembly are responsible for state property directly, without hiding places; and that is exactly what holding is. Let's show what we know, honestly. Not with the various agencies and exchanges of this Supervisory Board, but with the administration of this Director. Let us take responsibility and show what we know as those who have been given the task of direct or indirect leadership of this country, rather than putting the responsibility on others, as has been the case so far. Everything we've done so far with state assets has turned out to be, unfortunately, a failure. I think we have the right to try something new, and because we are working and we want to do it now, not in a few months, one year, today we want to work on it. The law is not 100% perfect, but the concept is true and we support it in the Slovenian People's Party; what we said at the outset in the very position. In particular, because it also foresees the preparation of a specific strategy, what Slovenia has not yet had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Today we have a law before us, which, although Slovenia is faced with a totally depraved economy, the economy, nevertheless, decides on our future and, of course, at this point we agree that this is an important matter. Unfortunately from here on out, we do not agree very much, because what I have heard today from most opposition Members, who reject any new solution to the management of state property, these ideas that have been spoken here, and more precisely the observations, because ideas and proposals have been scarce, must be deeply frozen somewhere in Antarctica and even prevented penguins from doing so. Because, so absurd things have been said that I wonder – in addition to a large dose of populism and demagogism – I wonder where you will stop in this populism and demagogicism, given the seriousness of the moment and the situation in the country. When a Member of the Social Democrats ensured that "we will not be included in this," he meant solutions or that they did not support them. However, the moment of truth came quite quickly, rather quickly, the Member of Positive Slovenia, Comrade Čehovin, broke out in unconscious. And look, I'm going to quote you from the magnetogram what he said, and that's probably an unconscious truth: "First let me say that we all here probably know that we want to keep ourselves" – we – Positive Slovenia obviously – "governance of this country, and that we don't need any aunts or uncles." We want to maintain the governance of the state and state property. I am grateful to my fellow member of the opposition species that he is so transparent, he makes it clear that they have managed and managed through uncles and levers of power, through centres of power with state assets. Only this is actually the greatest evil because it is necessary to pull out of the hands of poor governance. This management has contributed to billions of money going to Cyprus, Liechtenstein, the other oasis, and that those who put this money there today are the centres of power where their indirect representatives provide: "We manage this property." Do you really manage this property, ladies and gentlemen? This property is no longer owned by the State of the Republic of Slovenia. And boasting here that you want to continue to manage the property of the country is an alarm for our citizens. You are wise today to manage this untransparent management with Isilovich and Earthlings to manage forward, without uncles, but these are uncles. But these uncles, unfortunately, manage. With such statements and such developments, you have unfortunately shown the opposition Members that most of you are still under the orders of Slovenian Gerontology, that even if you are involved in the negotiation and adoption of the law, you must withdraw your signature from what you have prepared and prepared together. It's a sad picture of the opposition. I must say that, although Mr Pahor resisted or rejected a new Dolomite statement by Mr Stanovnik yesterday, most of his Members agree with it. This hostile pamphlet, which was declared yesterday, is literally a path to failure if Slovenian Gerontology continues to govern this country. There is a need, fellow Members, for self-question. Look, I accept the concerns, the legitimate doubts, the thought that such a mastodon — the origin of mastodon — is full of danger. For I was one of those economists in the economy, expecting with confidence the creation of a development fund, under which my factory then passed. Then I found bitterly that there were Korjets and them, looking at their honest men, and they sniffed out with the current local tycoons. Nothing helped to prevent him from twice being wildly possessed, with great sufferings, in that harmony, with great sufferings, but in the end they were winners; today they are partly owners. I was expelled from the factory and such traps, of course, in such projects [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u115	Comrade Jerovšek, we are discussing Article 1 and the amendment to Article 1. To date, however, the debate has been general about the law. You're either going a little bit or a little bit outside of this marriage. Please at least discuss the law, if not the amendment to Article 1. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u116	That's exactly what I'm talking about. Don't join those who have different fears. Mr. Vice President, you've tried to break me a little bit, and that's partly what you've done. But I'll keep going. These today's findings have already been cited here to manage the CK. It's true if they keep Mr. Chekovin's words! The entire CK ex is on that side – the Cypriot side, I'll say, on the Cypriot side. And those who are threatening and launching new Dolomite statements are marching under the Yugoslav flags of the last weeks. I'm sorry, and this should be a concern for our citizens! Those marching under Yugoslav flags are calling for some strange election votes. It has also been reported that this will result in the loss of 100,000 jobs in the long term. That's possible, too. Just how many did you lose during your reign? How many did you produce? And this poor governance needs to be stopped at this point. We must be at least a little optimistic that twice in a row the disaster cannot be repeated that under the probability law there cannot be as poor a choice in the leading cities as it has obviously been in the past three years. When I look at your suggestions on a different supervisory council, on different supervision, I am surprised that in one breath you speak about how the National Assembly will not have any control and influence, and at the same time suggest a way to appoint a supervisory council that takes over every jurisdiction of the National Assembly. From five members, you reduce to one member elected by the National Assembly, and you hand it over to Mr Strukkl, the unions. And the President of the Republic. Respect the president's position to deal with what's in our constitution. The Lord, and his entire cabinet, which boasts at the national celebrations in the first and second rows, and the Members drive us from the seats. That's what happened in Vitaly. Although it was not a national celebration, the state protocol did so at the expense of officials from the President's office. These officers from the President's office have terrible ambitions and they appoint supervisory members, not president. And at the same time, when you say - the President of the Republic. We proposed to Mr. Türk at the AUKN, and you rejected him! And I agree, of course, with Mr Franz, that the biggest source or source of our crisis and even in the world are banks. There's also my client's mistake that Mr. Kramar didn't drive him away at the moment she came into power. And some other director in Maribor. Only these were your human resources solutions that you prevented us from pursuing and panic to execute; that they were the best managers in this country. And now we have the results of these managers and these power centers, these central committees from the past. I'll be the first to fight the deviants. They're dangerous. Perhaps it would be wise to suggest that the board of this company sits twice a year on the committee during a day-long debate so that Members can ask everything and shake it out of their pants. But it won't be easy for this administration. They're not gonna like it! Let us hope that Members, Members of the Group, propose the right supervisors to choose the right administrators, the right administration that will act better than the former development fund that was essentially an abuse if I look from practice, and that we will begin to raise Slovenians from the ashes, from the mountain you have prepared for us; from the mountain where every Slovenian citizen suffers, except those in Cyprus and elsewhere, the Virgin Islands, from the state bank assets, with which they will also use Slovenia in future, which will also buy presidential elections that will say that it is necessary to go to the plebiscite, so that the ratings from Cyprus and the Virgin Islands can be used and owned by Slovenian assets. No, gentlemen. The Slovenians will not accept this concept. They won't! You can fool me like that. You can have so much and so much money in your reserve in Cyprus. Until the elections, Slovenians will realize that it is necessary to put a transparent man at the head of the country to make law. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u117	Comrade Jerovšek, we are talking about Article 1 and the amendment to Article 1 of the Law, which has already been appointed many times today. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u118	which discusses the management of State property [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u119	Not about the presidential elections. [[...]] Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u120	Mr. President, don't be servile to the former authorities. [[...]] We are talking about state management and it belongs to state management. Didn't Mr. Stanovnik say yesterday how his property, the center of power, would be stolen from him under this law? Didn't he talk about it? Of course it is! I'm saying it again. I am open to constructive proposals to prevent deviations within this holding company. But I have to say no to all this powerful demagogism and populism. The robbery of the century has taken place, and in one century it can only happen once a robbery of the century. Persecute thieves and criminals! Do this to heal Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Replica? Mr. Jerko Chehovin, a replica, please, you have been named twice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u122	Thank you. I didn't think I would have to answer, but it is obvious that we also have some people in this House who don't belong here, but rather in the field of clinical psychology. When I spoke, I would say, I was interrupted by Mr Jerovsk's interlocutor, which is what he does all the time. I listened to him, and it doesn't matter! But that's all I want to say. When I said "we," I meant the National Assembly, we're here in the National Assembly. And he's stealing it again because he understands what he's saying. It's a matter of some intellectual sub-capitalisation, not understanding what we're talking about. The other thing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u123	Mr. Chehovin, please do not give such characteristics that may fall elsewhere, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u124	I'm just reacting. Five minutes later, he said, "my company." And he used to say "my." I said, "we Members of the National Assembly." We probably have the right to talk about how we will have and work with this property. If you have problems with self-projection, then look in the mirror. Everything you've talked about is more about you than it is about us. For 40 years, I have worked in the economy, and this is the first time I have received a salary from the state budget. First time! However, some of us have paid 16 years to make 16 decisions and make decisions about what brought this country. That is why once again: I reject such a way and, above all, refuse, Mr President, to talk about all other things than this. One more thing. I just need to say it here. The partisans were freed by the sea under the red star; not by a vermakht, not by a Russian army, nor by Italians. I had seven uncles, and they are all dead, and I am proud of all things: one was killed by the domestics, and the other was killed by the Germans.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u125	Well, with all due respect, we are talking about the Slovenian State Holding Act – and I have warned my colleague earlier about this – and Article 1 and Amendment 1 to Article 1. So since the list is empty, I'm asking if anyone else wants a word? I can see the hands. I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. Please. Mr. Franz Pukšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Speaking of holding state property, actually there's not much more to talk about. There's something small left, some change after 22 years of independent state. If that were not the case, then today we would not have more than 100,000 unemployed, then today we would not have so many people on such a minimum wage and then today we would not have a few individuals, when they have become rich with dozens, hundreds of millions at the expense of those who have been working for 40 years for minimum wage enterprises and those who are now unemployed. The result of all of this is not today, but it is coming and it is rolling like a log, and now it is so great that it can also take a close look at the further development of this country. Twenty-two years of work and creation, including in private, legal services that prepared legislation for large government money, which was written on the hand of those who were the richest and never responsible for it, and to this day no property has been taken away. Even more, even for those arrests and written allegations the courts of their work simply do not make. It happens that things are mostly obsolete or fall due to some procedural errors. In 22 years this option is now in power for the seventh year: two years of Demos, four years of the Yangtze government and now the first year of the government coalition of five parties. Three times more there was a second option, the left option, which today wants to send the brain to this coalition, how to start creating the conditions for this fire, this burning begins to go out and something new begins to happen. Very hard! You talk about it when you have the Stožice behind you when you have Jaklič, the Ljubljana Pharmacy, when you have hundreds of such cases behind you; those who have been both of you or your political creators, not only of you, the creators of the third robbery of Slovenian state banks. When some Members were here, we were alerted to what conflict of interest, from the Presidents of the Supervisory Board to the Directors of State Enterprises, etc. Of course you didn't want to hear anything. Moreover, every year you came with budgets, two billion and some debt. The alternative programme of the SD, which we could see to guide economic development policy, is to simply order or write in here so that the obligations of all state-owned companies – that is, state-owned enterprises – are required by them to invest further in bad companies. The old Slovenian proverb says that three tribes create, one of them costs. That's what it was, and that's what it's gonna be. This country, too, has actually done so and has led to this catastrophic border. The last plant for this government and these citizens and citizens is to simply prevent these things and to do something that really has the opportunity to survive what is good, to sell what anyone else wants and wants to buy and create, because, finally, it will be created in our area. Previously, a comparison was made of how many millions, 200 million or how many million, Telekom Slovenije made losses. I read somewhere in the paper that with roughly the same property – the management of Telekom in Serbia – they made several times more profits. In short, a normal citizen cannot simply understand how and what. And not least, when all these skeletons fell and now the last, after more than half a year's effort, we listened to the Bank of Slovenia report or we had it here in the State Assembly at a closed meeting around how much effort it took to get the data in the first place. Of course, I believe that there will be a great deal of effort needed to ensure that those who have worked hard to do so, including members of the administration, members of the supervisory boards, are punished, convicted and deprived of their property. And if there is — this property, at least part of it — it is high time to give it to those state institutions that need it most. If – then these are Slovenian hospitals where medical personnel work under abnormally difficult conditions; and they work more than properly, more than honestly, in short, they work. On one side. On the other hand, through only one business, these state bankers knew how to steal for as long as they could solve all these problems very quickly. The State Holding Act is necessary, necessary, and if you are going to drive it, colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, through the referendum, I hope and believe that there is so much sense in the Slovenian public that it will not fall for you in this project. The fact is that whatever euro we need today is from outside, but we also need it to pay off the interest you took credit for and give money to the tycoon for privatisation. These interest rates and these loans will have to be repaid by the Slovenian people. One possibility is also that the Slovenian State Holding Act will come to life and bring a positive plus to the budget, but not as you did: renting credits and what was at home, but through – as colleague Jerovšek said – tax havens – and as some investigative commissions have, of course, had the opportunity to see it – even push across the borders of this country. Of course, I will support this marriage myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Minister, the President! I do not envy the function of managing this meeting because this topic of the Slovenian State Holding Act is getting more and more political connotations and very irrational debates in cleaning up the past and so on. That is probably not the case, but everyone can have his own opinion; so can we who sit here and those who observe us. State property is our national wealth and it is absolutely understandable that when it comes to state property, there is much debate. To include the opposition very constructively here, because we had a real estate law on the programme yesterday, which was supposed to go somehow to the congregations and then get very vague ways to deal with it. Yesterday, the opposition or our parliamentary group tabled amendments, which are likely to have very short deadlines, will not be accepted, and we have already indicated yesterday that we still care about how it will be available to state property. The problem is that the concept is slightly different; you have your own, we have our own, and despite the fact that we want to co-form, we want to modify this concept of yours in some ways, you do not allow us to do so. However, if we allow this, we would allow you to see the moment when you will be shown with your finger that you are guilty of being drowned by the state, it would be easier to say that the opposition has also co-formed such legislation and the opposition has agreed to it at the time; no matter what the predecessor said we were threatening with a referendum if this was not adopted. That's not what this is about. That's not what this is about. It is that all these laws, which are adopted in a very fast procedure, will take some form and some form and give some assurance that they will produce the right results and the results we want. State property isn't just a matter of this coalition. Time is given, nothing is eternal, and this coalition and this government are not eternal. And it's not just for this moment and this period of this property to eat it in one way or another and then remain completely empty, except for the debts of our country for the following periods. It is simply to concentrate this state property in one place, then to lose all the ways of legal control of this area and to exclude this main supervisory function of the National Assembly. This is what we are afraid of, and that is why we do not want this to go so quickly and in a one-way manner, but to listen to our suggestions and to be taken into account as far as possible. When you say that the creation of the Slovenian State Holding is also one of the measures to promote the economy – I have not heard this correlation to date, at least the response to this correlation between the creation of the Slovenian State Holding and the management of state assets, in parallel with economic growth, I have not heard. However, if these macro-analysis presupposes a decline in economic growth, I do not know whether this measure has already been taken into account in the next year and in 2014, 2015 whether this measure has already been taken into account or not. And it's not just that. Even all the measures that are just over 100 or what the Minister of the Economy predicts are obviously not those that give results, are not those that would be arrested, but macroanalysis shows us something completely different. So once again, I appeal, not that it is now a matter of calculating the opposition or coalition, it is simply that we want to work constructively, that we want to draw attention to those things, that, as far as possible, this law will be acceptable, and that we will also give support to this law at the end of the day. But we will give our support when we are absolutely convinced that it is going in the right direction and that it is well-directed. It is clear, however, state property – the past has shown its own: one great lack of confidence in how petty and carefree we have worked with state property that lands, land and does not know whether the adoption of this legislation on Slovenian State Holding will stop this land of state property, or whether it will continue; or whether it will really get some routes into the unknown, which will be blinded, that we will not see where this money or where this state property went. It is only by learning from the past that we must be very careful, that we must have a very smart management of this economy, or of this state property, in order to perhaps remain for the next generation, for the next term of office — probably not this government and not this coalition — that those who then control our country will be able to have something to take from and to have at their disposal. It also bothers me that the Law-Legal Service has made its comments on this whole legislation, and it bothers me that these comments are not taken into account to the extent that we would like to and expect them to. Actually, it's a practice. See, we also had comments from the anti-corruption commission yesterday, which are simply being heard, the National Assembly goes its own way, today is the vote, and I am sure that these comments will not even be mentioned and the results of the anti-corruption commission and that things will be adopted as set out. So far, I'm really skeptical about this because of the things I said. In any case, in no way shall our comments be taken into account, although they are well-intentioned. As I said at the time, the moment that they point to you with their finger, that you are guilty of what happened, that you will say we are not alone, because there was also opposition, and we gave them a word, and they too could co-form legislation that is good or bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The minister, Dr. Šuštersič, spoke. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u130	If you'll excuse me, I'll just explain for a moment, because there was a question about the forecast and the links to economic growth. With regard to economic growth; what we are counting on is that this more transparent, efficient way of managing assets will not only increase returns. What's important to understand before was said, you can only sell once, one thing you can sell only once, but the ransom from this sale stays at the holding company and will reinvest and bring back. What we expect, as some responses to these proposals of the law confirm, is the interest of the international investor community in what is happening in Slovenia; not only for the opportunities that the strategy or classification of investments will be given through holding company, but also for other things where it can be invested in Slovenia. The entire network of reforms we are planning is also going this way. It's very pre-quantifiable. The government, as you know, does not even have its forecasts of what the economic future will be this year or next year. We take into account, we come from the forecasts made by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, which we have no impact on. But with them, the logic of forecasting is the same as with all the other official, if I say so myself, predictors. Thus, they take into account those measures that have already been taken and where some results can already be seen. Thus, disregarding investments may be expected, disregarding some kind of start that may be expected on the basis of measures that have already been taken, or which will also be proposed, or already proposed, but what is now in the trends is visible in the data. As a government, however, we expect that if these measures, which we have already proposed, when they have been adopted or have already been adopted, we begin to act that we may also see some improvements in the forecast in a positive direction next year, not only in a negative way.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! In Positive Slovenia we have prepared our proposal for a law on the management of the country's capital investments for the prudential and responsible management of state property, but unfortunately we have not succeeded in the proposal itself. I wonder, too, what are the advantages of transferring ownership from the Republic of Slovenia to a state-owned holding company, which is in the country's 100% ownership. What do we gain from this transfer of assets, as already asked by a colleague of mags today? Cousin. It is a matter of concern that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 137(4) of the Rules of Procedure, has indicated in its opinion that the individual provisions of the draft law after the adoption of the amendments in the second reading, i.e. after this adoption, are mutually inconsistent and inconsistent with the Constitution and are also inconsistent with other laws. We are reminded of this, fellow Members of Parliament and Members. The open questions that we have been talking about today are likely to be, from the composition of the Supervisory Board to the fact that we do not have a list of assets, there is no answer, whether the transfer of banks after the rehabilitation or immediately, is still uncleaned and what and how much we will sell. To stress in this law that the Law-Legal Service warns, it is obviously not right that I am stressing a great deal on my own. It's probably out of place. Since it was quite different this morning at the hearing, for example the Law on Personal Assistance, when it was very stressed by the Government by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and it was stated that, according to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the view of the Government is that the Law on Personal Assistance is not suitable for further consideration. Thus, the law should also be defined in the same way as for the management of real estate. After the establishment of a public real estate fund, which is even terminated by this law, we will discuss this in more detail in one of the articles and in this context the State should manage its property. However, this issue is also obviously not fully resolved because the law also allows the management of real estates to be managed by the DSU, which has around EUR 100 million of real estate in its balance sheets, where no particularly significant transfer criteria have been defined when the remaining property is transferred to the holding country. The latter is particularly important because of the transfer of property in which the public service is managed. Today, some have also talked about this public service, for example, the property of hospitals, including the property of schools, is being transferred. What will happen when these properties will be part of the property of the holding company and will also be responsible for its obligations with these real estates. So we don't think about what I'm talking about. I'm talking about when we've been wondering about banks, whether we're going to put the banks clean or we're going to move the uncleaned. What if we need to recapitalize the bank, say, NLB and, on the other hand, when we don't have money in the holding – what are we going to do, sell a hospital or a school? I hope not. Well, there's so many more questions. Even when we proposed in Positive Slovenia that when the annex to the law, all capital investments be described to assess their value or at what value they will be transferred to holding and also describe their liabilities. So we would know, unfortunately, we still don't know what state the holding company is going to be in. Obviously there are so many open questions and an important problem that has not been experienced by the epilogue, and I have the feeling that there is also a bill-maker, the Government, or the competent Ministry of Finance, who has not been able to answer this question that I was talking about before: or perhaps we will not sell the school or the hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u134	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary! Many words have been said today, hard words at the expense of state property; we are talking too late about this. This property is smaller from month to month, and action is urgently needed. Of course, I support the proposal for the Slovenian State Holding Act. Control over state property is currently weak, untransparent. This is certainly very beneficial for a lot of interests, including for individuals, how to continue captivating part of the state property, so the government and the National Assembly must take care of the state property, transparently without any hiding places. This is what we want to achieve for these holding companies, not through some management agencies, but through para-national funds through exchanges of administrations, supervisors and the like. We need to take responsibility and show that we know how to behave responsibly towards state property, social property. If all state property is under one roof, it will also be much easier to control or to compare and measure the results and to make the right decision on the basis of these. The bill was prepared by experts in cooperation and coordination with representatives of the coalition and also the opposition, at a very professional level. Therefore, it seems to me once again to the public that this law is not basically prepared and coordinated by Members, not by an individual party, but by a group of experts and good experts on this issue. That is why I am not afraid to support such a proposal for a law, because there is no longer time for us to continue here, in the National Assembly, to charge ourselves with who said something from left to right or from right to left. Let's face it, we're at the end. The only solution is to move together in at least those areas that are good for citizens and for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. I support the law, including our amendments that have been tabled, because the fact is that we have not managed well with state property so far. More than that, we can say that we are bad, so the winged country is a bad host, because in many households we would not start with our assets as the country does, just because we have things that are not transparent because we are managed by the Capital Investment Management Agency, then by the Capital Company, the Slovenian Compensation Society, etc. If you allow me just a few titles of articles in the last period, i.e. at the time of the Capital Investment Management Agency, what we read, what we listened to and was far from what the Agency was set up to do. In Pek, the management headed by Janez Sayovec is supposed to work through supervisors and look for partners together with the Capital Investment Management Agency. Then they wondered: Do AUKN’s consultants choose transparently, Dagmar Komar avoids public calls, in AUKN without Isajlović there is really nothing important, the AUKN denies the connection to Zemljarič and Isajlović, the Head of the AUKN have a total of 331 000 euros in personal accounts, the AUKN allows state supervisors to pay unwarrantedly high prizes, even higher than during the konjunkture; after the Agency for the Management of Capital Investments of the country run by Dagmar Komar attacked strongly on Monday the recapitalisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor, it completely changed its position yesterday – we know the story then. Representatives of the Agency are expected to advise HSE management how to reintroduce Milan Medved at the head of Velenje Coal without a tendering procedure. Although the mosquito says it has no connection with the policy that it is no longer in the SD party, we know that it was at the time of appointment. Therefore, it is funny to hear your President's statements about how we place party soldiers, and what we read, whoever we want to replace, is a member of the SD. At the agency she's going to stand for purely professional activity, she said then. The designated investment in the New Credit Bank Maribor consumes millions of profits from state companies; the involvement of AUKN has crippled the rating of the New Credit Bank Maribor – someone previously told us that due to us the ratings are falling –; Radičeva Komarjevo accuses bias, AUKN denies the dismemberment of the agency's leadership. At the time, it was said that the member of the AUKN administration Danilo Grašič and Marko Golob had been acting separately from the first lady of the agency, Dagmar Komar, from the fall of the government of Borut Pahorje, would have been even worse. Grašič and Golob are supposed to propose to the AUKN world moves that would allow the Director of the Development Investment Society Rajko Sirocic to be called off, although Komarjev is not supposed to agree with this. Radič's writings to Pahorju: The AUKN is a matter of suspicions of illegality. The following article has already been published: Do not resolve Dagmar Komar. You'd better lock up the AUKN! There's too much damage! Stopping sales. The former Minister of Economic Affairs, Mr Lahovnik, also spoke, and the suspension of sales was contrary to the government's announced policy. Such work has a double negative effect, the state loses its purchase, and it also entails additional expenditure due to the state recapitalisation. It is a bad message to foreign investors if the sales procedures are completed almost to the end and then stopped. I don't know who else would be ready to rule. Potential investors have costs with prudential reviews of companies. Another economist wrote: 'In a short history, the AUKN has so far been awarded only high doses of incompetence, outstanding political obedience to the Minister of Finance and extreme, politically motivated'management' in the Taliban. Its mode of action are dispatches in the communist style to the administrations and supervisory boards of companies, how to act or vote in concrete cases. The means of achieving the objectives are the rapid replacement or threat of control boards and the same rapid changes in state-owned corporate statutes, which make some key management decisions directly to the AUKN." So, we managed the state property very badly, even history, but this AUKN period was something else. They talked about strategic investments all the time, and we didn't have any strategies. They failed to prepare it when they finally prepared it – the adopted strategy and the annual programme – of course not even the previous government, so even the Pahor government was not satisfied with it. The list of strategic investments was also rejected as there was no clear definition of investment management. In short, the result of Mr Pahor's reporting the leadership of the AUKN to the anti-corruption commission – that is, he has already seen that there will be nothing out of it – or that there have been discussions about the change of law and that after a good year of operation of the AUKN, a number of competences have been taken over. Because of the AUKN, the coalition almost broke down. He really left the government at that time also because of the things I've been talking about so far. In short, everything shows that we were not the most successful at what we were doing. For this reason, I believe that state-owned management of state property will be much more effective when combined in one place. That such a solution is acceptable also says that you have spoken in the working group to identify trade unions, including the professional public. When you set up the AUKN, of course, you didn't ask the opposition anything because you were sure that you knew everything and didn't need any advice from anyone. Given that the minister also said that the law followed the OECD recommendation, I have no reservations about supporting the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Plevčak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. When I listen to this debate, I think we're moving the ball from left to right. I am sure that so far, at the time of our independence, all governments have mismanaged our assets. Probably no one paid attention to the state's assets at a time when everything was enough, money, employment, banks were working normally. But now the crisis has come, and also the situation in which we are in it. However, I am confident that the creation of the holding company will now reduce the functioning of the lobbyists who have manipulated the transfer of money to the left and right during this time. At a time when the holding company is being established and the final image is being given, it is said, even with the strategy that we will adopt in the National Assembly, I expect that the positive result of the holding company's operation will be shown, that the relations will be clean. Of course, certain shares will have to be sold out in the light of the bad situation in which certain things are located, and we will have to deal with it. I wish and hope that the strategy will be completed as soon as possible. At the same time, I am convinced that the sanctions imposed by this holding company will also reach the one who is in breach of the provisions and that the non-transparentness of the procedures will also be sanctioned and accountability placed at an appropriate high level. I hope that the results will be fairly visible soon, and certainly not more than six months from now, so I will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u139	Thank you very much. So we are discussing the Proposal for a Law on Slovenian State Holding, Article 1 and Amendment to Article 1. Does anyone else want to discuss it? I can still see the hands, so I'm collecting applications. Please, the application is in progress. Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! An analysis of the management of state assets shows that this management is actually ineffective. Today he manages five legal entities: Kad, Sod, AUKN, PDP, DSU, each in its own way, without a single strategy in the country. As a result, we also have the results we have. This means, of course, that if some people think that this property is 10 billion or between 8 billion and 12 billion, today I hear different numbers that I wouldn't put my hand in fire, because this value is changing, certainly what we get from it is not enough, especially given that we measure it in a few 10 million or maybe 100 million. This means that this property is mismanaged and that, given the current situation, there is no responsibility for this property being so mismanaged. The new law lays the groundwork for the uniform management of state property, so that it will not be possible for one asset manager to operate at a particular assembly in contravention of the other operator of the same property as it did, and that there will be no different clienteleistic links on the one hand and on the other hand, as Mrs Plevčak has already mentioned, to minimize or reduce or do not engage in lobbyist activities at this institution. This depends on management and supervisors. A lot of questions are being asked. There are some questions that can be answered today; which means that if we look at the bill, we can actually find some answers, we have some answers from the opposition. First, we know what value this property will be transferred to holding. The law states that it will be carried at fair market value. Those who learn more about these terms know very well what is fair market value; and more, we know many methodologies how this fair market value is determined, which means that one stranger is less in this question. Another question that arises, which property will be transferred. After all, the list of these assets has been made public, and it has already been published, and it is true that some operators involved do not really know how much property they have. This was also evident at a meeting where we discussed the annual DSU report, where they did not know what assets they were managing. This is precisely the reason why such management is changing and data is provided, and that these data will in fact be public and we will know at what value this property is estimated. Here some concepts are mixed and I am sorry that some colleagues and colleagues mix the notion that the property will be transferred from the country, from the Republic of Slovenia to holding and so on. This is not true, of course, today we have certain managers, we have Kad, we have a Court and these are state organisations, but it is not the Republic of Slovenia, it is not a country in the true meaning of the word. Such a marriage certainly responds to these dilemmas that are set here. In view of the fact that this meeting of the National Assembly is expected to also discuss the law governing the management of bank claims, it is also expected that banks will be transferred to holding and when they will be moved, cleaned or uncleaned. Given that we have a lot of banks in this country, and given that the shares are intertwined, we have two banks directly owned by the State and one bank indirectly owned by the State, it can also be assumed that another institution will manage the claims of these banks. This is probably clear, and it is probably also predictable. It is true, however, that those who may know banking or who know business in certain agencies that value individual companies know that it is a process and that it is not a single act. So it's not that we're going to make a set of claims, one or the other, but that it's just a process. And the process was going on in Germany, the process was in Sweden, the process is happening in Ireland, and it's not a one-off act, as someone might imagine it would happen. There are other issues that in some way point out – and here I think completely on the wrong footing – that this concept will bring further depletion of businesses. This law does not provide any element for further depletion of businesses. Responsibility is transparent and responsibility is very clear on what and how. Even less so that there's some kind of property. Thus, after all, my colleagues and colleagues do not understand where they see and in what article they actually see what they are talking about here. It is true, however, that such a way of dealing with marriage is based on fear, fear, fear of people, fear of what, from nothing, because there is really no basis for it. The concept chosen here by the Social Democrats to convince people, on the basis of fear, that this marriage is bad, that a national disaster will happen here, that it is a national betrayal. I'm sorry, this concept is wrong! Let us look at the current state of play today and how it will be done in the future, and not least that this law has been adopted in a manner or a proposal for a law by consensus, as I understand, both coalitions and the opposition and the social partners, except for one article on the Supervisory Council. I do not understand the Members and Members who spoke completely differently one or two months ago, but when we come to the television cameras, they speak quite differently. I think you should find some self-reflection and also something, if you want, self-images about talking at least the same level or the same line. In short, here are some new things that I find difficult to discuss here and I really don't understand them. Policy intervention – The National Assembly is the supreme authority to keep an eye on the holding which will manage state assets. It's clearly in the law, and here again I don't completely understand what the problem is. The problem may also be that the National Assembly is sometimes not effective enough to watch and be able to exercise proper control over, I will say, so great. Maybe that's the problem. I do not see these fears that some people have; but I see some progress towards greater efficiency in managing state property, I see that this property will also be much more transparently managed, that control will be greater and that, therefore, the State and the taxpayers and citizens and citizens will have more than they have so far, which means that it will bring more. These principles are the fundamental principles on which this law is based, and I will therefore uphold the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u142	President, thank you for your word. Colleagues, colleagues! A few discussions have been heard today. Perhaps I would like to focus on where the advantage of this law is from the existing system. We all know that I will not repeat the words that colleague Jeraj earlier said about AUKN; the AUKN has also failed to fulfil its basic mission, that is to say, the preparation of the strategy. The strategy was rejected by the ministerial assembly of the previous government, but some who looked at this strategy said that they would probably not get a positive assessment of a seminar assignment in high school. Where is the greatest advantage of this proposed law? The greatest advantage is the concentration of assets in one place. What's in it for us? This gives us more efficient governance, more rational governance, and above all, we will come to the point of who is responsible for certain actions, because we have never been able to do so today. On the other hand, colleague Gaspar Gaspar also mentioned funding sources. I mean, if the assets come together in one place, then this company will also have the possibility of accessing lower funding sources due to a better balance sheet total. Once again, I'd say I don't understand the Social Democrats. A policy of intimidation and a policy of deception. They're talking about 100,000 jobs. How do you have a face like that? In fact, Slovenia has lost 60,000 jobs in the mandate of your government. The duality of the Social Democrats is also now visible: they are initially required procedurally by the Prime Minister, the Minister, and now their bench is empty. There's not a single Member in the House of Representatives! With regard to the crisis mentioned, I would mention that it is likely that state property is not responsible for the crisis. However, we cannot ignore the fact that Slovenian state-owned companies achieve significantly worse results than competing, comparable companies abroad. That's why something has to be done. The denationalisation has been exposed. Whether or not the holding company will live, the State of the Republic of Slovenia will have to pay for the denationalisation entitlement. The separation and purpose of the funds is in the law of the protector, that they will not be able to use the funds for certain purposes and that there will be an influx. The law contains all the OECD guidelines and recommendations. Finally, it is also probably important that this law provides some assurance to the pensioners, I think it is important that they provide the funds, but I do not understand in particular the DSU, which did not ask itself why the capital company has made 467 million euros in losses in the last four years. Is this an effective management of state property? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Minister Dr. Šuštersič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u144	Hello! An important question has been raised or an important question has been raised regarding the recapitalisation of banks by the holding company or the question has been raised whether banks will be transferred to the holding company in a clean or dirty state. I want to explain a few things here because I think they're important. Tomorrow, on the committee, we will consider the proposal for a law on bank debt management. This law proposes the establishment of a special company to manage the bank's claims, and under this law this company will also have the power to recapitalise banks where this would be necessary in the light of the conditions that this law or that we propose to lay down. This is precisely why, in the previous proposal of the Holding Act, which was discussed in June, we deleted that article which spoke of holding being able to be used as an address or as an institution that would also solve the problem of bad banking claims. The question is whether the holding will be the owner of the banks and the owner will have to recapitalise whether the holding company will have to do so. If the holding company is unable to do so, or if it is assessed that this does not make sense, if the bank held by the State will be included in the bank claim resolution programme through the bank debt management company, then this will not be necessary because this company will do so with the State guarantee. But this is a question — but I would like to draw your attention — actually quite meaningless. I would be very happy if the state could simply say that it has no money for this bank capitalisation. But we can't say that, even if we wanted to say that, we can't say that. If we say that today, it will mean — you know what — a fall in ratings, a complete loss of confidence in our banking system, and only that we will have to ask someone else to give us money to recapitalize banks. This is a situation that we want to avoid practically with everything we do in the fall. The second thing is important; the public obligation to recapitalise banks is not linked to where the ownership is. We have several banks in Slovenia, we have banks that are partly state-owned, state-owned and private owners. These private owners have not participated in the recapitalisation of banks in recent years for various reasons, neither in Maribor, nor in Ljubljana, or are there major difficulties in ensuring this now with the Bank, which you can also read about. There's always that last lifeguard here. It was, I think, a commitment made in 2011, including among the finance ministers, that if systemic banks in countries are at risk, this will be resolved from public funds, unless it is otherwise possible to do so. And this is what the Governor of Banka Slovenije warns me about all the time and says that if you do not recapitalise me as owners, you will recapitalise as a budget. However, if a private bank threatens the stability of the banking system, you will also recapitalize the private bank if no one else wants to. So I think it's a question of whether banks are going to be cleaned or dirty to hold, in terms of whether they have to be recapitalised or whether they have to be recapitalised by public funds, in fact a rather insignificant question. What is important is that we adopt as quickly as possible a law that will resolve the problem of bad bank balances in a way that is clear, transparent, excluded into a special society, then fewer such doubts will be raised whether the holding company will do so or the state will do so directly. But what an obligation we have here, but it's perfectly clear and, for the first time, to think about whether or not we would, and where we'd rather, it doesn't matter. In case we happen to be in a situation, the holding company will have to do so. Yeah, well, then maybe the holding will have to be recapitalised from the budget. Unfortunately, this is no way to avoid this obligation. However, I like that there is a growing lack of willingness in the National Assembly to continue to support the resolution of banks with state money – at least unlimited. We will propose a solution with which we try to solve this and then a lot; it is said, let's recognise the problem in its entirety, address it fully, try to solve it with an intervention measure called a company for the management of bank claims, so that we will not discuss it again every six months, and how much to recapitalise. If someone is willing to invest their capital in a cleaned bank or a dirty bank, I think that, given how ready it has been today to do so either with their money or with their common money, we will continue to do so in order for such offers to be accepted positively.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u145	Thank you. Would anyone else like to discuss Article 1 and the amendment? [[No, no, ……]] Then I shall put to the debate Article 2 and the amendment to Article 2. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Article 4, Article 6, Article 7, Article 8, Article 9, Article 10. I saw Mr. Webber's hand raised. You don't have time anymore. Article 12, Article 13, Article 14, Article 15, Article 16, Article 17, Article 19, Article 20, Article 21. Mag. Ivan Vogrin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I myself was a member of the work-skuine and I must say that I felt that the work was constructive, productive and that we were trying to make a useful law for Slovenian state property. Some external experts, such as Dr. Peter Kraljič, also participated in the working group. In fact, there was no difficulty in harmonising most of the articles of the law. The key to this law is the supervisory council. I'll tell you in a parable. If we say that Slovenian State Holding is a relatively good car that should be started to drive or operate, but this car does not serve anyone without the right fuel. But if we pour gas into this car instead of the prescribed oil, it won't be any of that either. What am I trying to say? The key thing in the management and control of assets is the composition of the Supervisory Board. From many debates it has been possible to see that we are all aware and accept that the management of Slovenian state property has been poor. This is one of the reasons for the crisis. But I have a feeling that now you were the ones who were not in power, and again they were, and so on. — well, this supremacy by power has changed – they manifest one another’s mismanagement, but at the moment no one is able to cut it off and start to manage it differently, but to take into account the helpful suggestions and advice of those who are not now in the role of manager. Or else; also the OECD experts abroad warn us that the supervisory authorities must be politically independent. Political independence is difficult to ensure or feel that when electoral programmes are being made, that we all write or write all political parties, when they actually come to reality, it is difficult to do so. Although my proposal was also not adopted by the working group to ensure political independence with the so-called two-thirds majority, I think it would be good to take into account the proposals made by my colleague Stepišnik and colleague Weber around a different composition of the Supervisory Committee. Besides, I think, as many have already found that marriage is good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. We have already said in the introduction that this will be one of the key reasons not to support the law unless you support our amendment. We would suggest that four of the nine members are named in one way or another by the coalition, two – the government, two on the proposal of the parliamentary groups, but we know how this is going in the National Assembly; the majority of the members of the Economic and Social Council gather two, two on a proposal from the Commission of the State Council for the supervision of public finances – let's say that these are two opposition – and three on a proposal from the members of the Economic and Social Council. I think that this proposal is also following what partners have proposed in the Economic and Social Council, and we have not received any smart answer as to why this is difficult to take into account. I am pleased that Mr Kraljič participated with us in this working group, which, if I know anything, participated in this working group on your proposal, Mr President. I think you invited him to this task force. Therefore, it might be good for you and your client to take into account the suggestions he made because they were really constructive. I believe that Mr. has long experience in the management and management of businesses, that they have been well-intentioned and has constantly reminded us of the supervisory board and the management of the holding company. I hope you've had some kind of conversation with him after these working groups, and he's told you what he put there. It is true that in these working groups certain things had to be said twice, three times or five times, that they were heard. Since Mr Kraljič has been, I think, only twice with us, I believe he is tired of repeating himself, because in some normal professional circles, if said once, these things can be taken into account. I call on you - not to say that I am asking you, but I urge you - to reconsider if the composition of the supervisory council is really so important that you insist on what you have proposed and if it is not reasonable to reconsider and support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Anyone else on the subject of Article 21? If not, let's move on. Article 22(2) Does anyone want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Article 23(3) Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u150	Just a quick question. Given that we have received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the bench and Article 23, the first paragraph is not in line with Article 11. How are we going to handle this, or are you going to handle it? I think there are six, seven, eight articles that are not mutually coordinated.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u151	That is why, of course, we have a third-reading option that we are unlikely to be able to do today. Until the third reading, it will also be time to seek some compromise around the composition of the Supervisory Board. But I'm not going to have a substantive discussion about what I can't or can't do from this town. Let's move on if there's nothing on Article 23. Article 24? Nothing. Article 25, Article 26, Article 27, Article 28. Mag. Alenka Bratušek, debate, and Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u152	I apologize for delaying the debate on the amendment on Article 2 where the terms are defined. I wonder, in Article 28, you use the term "SDH assets", which is not defined anywhere. We use capital investments, portfolios, in short, all but SDH assets. This Article states that 10 % of the purchases received by SDH from the sale of its capital investments, which are classified as SDH assets, will be made. I would like an explanation or an explanation of how we will get this done in that second article, if necessary. What is SDH property?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u153	Does the government want to answer that question, or do you accept this warning? Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u154	As far as property is concerned, it is also in the amendment that we are talking about, we are also talking about Kad's property, but it is property. Here we have defined it as capital investments, which are assets of SDH – from these investments. What's being sold out. This is 10 % of Kadu for the purpose of providing the resources of the STIZ. It's a nomotechnician.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Anyone else on Article 28? Romana Tomc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings for me, too. I will not go into the debates already held at Article 1 in the general examination of the law. The fact is that we urgently need a more efficient management of state property, which is definitely the basis for the proposal of the law to do so. Perhaps an article or two back by returning the question to a colleague who touched the composition of the Supervisory Board. I believe that the composition of the Supervisory Board is an extremely important matter under this Act. But it is very sad that this is the key issue and the issue of disagreement between individual political options. However, we need to ask ourselves what else is the content of this law, which is, of course, good. And, my dear colleague, I also ask you back whether the composition of the Supervisory Council is so important to you that you cannot withdraw from your proposal for an amendment. Otherwise, I will say to the 28th article, which deals with the property to be allocated, the security of future pensions. I must say that the pensioners can greatly rejoice in this law and support it with all their might. Indeed, the current regime is significantly worse from this point of view. The current regime imposes on Kadu to transfer every year up to 30 per cent of the pension allowance. 9. says here, €50 million for the purpose of coordinating pensions. This can also mean such an explanation that, unless there is a reconciliation of pensions, then this obligation of Kad, even if it can be understood from this, is not at all. This is all that is now being said in the legislation regarding the remittance of the Code of Pension Security. In addition to this 50 million, the new law provides not only for the coordination of pensions, but also, for all purposes, an additional 10 % for the sale of SDH's own capital investments. This is huge money, this is huge assets, and I think that all those who will once receive pensions can look forward to such a solution from this title as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u157	A replica? I beg your pardon, a debate on Article 28? Have you discussed it yet? Good. Here you go, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u158	This would be the first time today that one article could be discussed only once; but okay. Even when you were a percentage, we talked from the red star to the money in Cyprus, Luxembourg, only Australia, and we haven't mentioned the weapons affair. So, I will. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u159	And you don't have to fix this mannequin now. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u160	I won't. I absolutely won't. Secretary of State, I'm not sure that SDH assets mean the same as SDH investments. I'm just warning you, and please, if we're really going to fix something in the third reading to see if it's the same. I don't think that's the same thing. But if it is, I ask why it doesn't say "investment" in there, because this is defined in Article 2. That's one thing. And now you will allow, even though this is not Article 28, to answer my colleague. If I understood you correctly, we should be talking about the composition of the Supervisory Board, but our colleague asked us to step aside. It doesn't work that way. But it is absolutely for us the composition of the Supervisory Council, which means control of all that many people in this Chamber are alerting to today — it is absolutely so important that we do not think or give up. But I don't know why you'd be afraid that the government wouldn't have a majority in this control world. But neither would the opposition, because we propose that the three members be appointed by the Economic and Social Council. In short, we estimate that the composition of such a supervisory board would be the best possible control over the functioning of the holding company.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u161	Let's move on. 29, 30, 31, 32, 33 K 29 more? [[...]] Mr. Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I believe that Article 29 covers the essence of all these fears that have arisen today around the composition of the Supervisory Council. As we see, members of the board and members of the Supervisory Board are subject to the highest checks by the anti-corruption commission, the same rules as those applicable to all public administration officials are strict. Above all, I am disturbed, I can say, during this extremely crucial period for our country, when we are in fact partially losing our economic sovereignty, that we are constantly looking at each other and we all assume that we are corrupt, weak and some unreasonable people. I think that the government is the highest body of the executive branch of power that decides to pursue politics and must be responsible for this policy. I think that today we have all the resources available, especially in terms of telecommunications, means of public information that can monitor the conduct of each government in a particular case. And of course I do not agree here – let the government take over the executive branch of power. As you know, governments in parliamentary democracies can change extremely quickly, so this proposal is not good for our current government, not for our coalition, not for the opposition. In doing so, I am kind of satisfied that Article 29 particularly limits the supervisory board and the future administration, whose members must show and cooperate with the Commission to prevent corruption all information about their assets and all others. I think that here is the key point where all the concerns raised today by the opposition fall, and I think that this is the end of the problem. With this 29th Article, everything you have stated is somehow denied. There will always be concerns that are subjective to me, not objective in nature. I believe in the rightness and justice of this article. However, we must somehow turn and set up a new paradigm, because I think that everything that has been going on with the ownership process, where we have fallen on some points of the rule of law where certain social networks have somehow mined state property – at least in some parts – and at this time there have been so many key factors in this legal state, which are somehow guardians of the rule of law, which were not at the time that these things are likely to be very difficult to repeat today. I think these fears are over. But the situation in our country at this point is so far away when we are, I can say, before we lose economic sovereignty. At the moment, we must recognise that Slovenian State Holding is a good thing, is a good law, some innovations were needed. I think these novelties are good. I can say that financial experts who were truly politically independent have somehow given us the green light that this law is good, that it is absolutely necessary, and that we have had few wrinkles since Slovenian state property in the last 10, 15 years. Here I think it is imperative that these concerns be superfluous and that today we support this law and put it under the roof. I think that this 29th article, which I have discussed, is an article that denies those concerns raised by the opposition today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u163	Mag. Alenka Bratusek. Discussion on Article 30 and amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u164	Thank you. In view of the great opposition that this amendment still receives about the members of the Supervisory Council on the other hand, I am seriously beginning to worry that the vast majority of what the colleagues in the SD have been warning about all day is true and that you really think I don't know what to hide, I don't know what to do and so on. If you take a good look, we do not want to give the opposition any special role in this supervisory world. But why the hell are you so insistent that the government has to have seven members out of nine? What are you worried about? If everything is going to be the way it's supposed to be, I don't know what you're worried about! If this is going to be really competent people, and given how much assets they're going to manage, I want them to be the most competent people we can find. But with everything you are saying now, we can have serious concerns that certain things will want to go differently than you did in the working groups and you are convincing us today. That's the first thing. The amendment to Article 30 essentially refers to the slightly more specific supervision of the National Assembly, which would be carried out through the working body, that is, the working body responsible for the supervision of public finances, and not only if this commission or working body finds that there is an irregularity or that SDH has not acted in accordance with the management acts of Articles 7, 8 and 10 of this Law, to the National Assembly, irrespective of the provisions of Article 21 of this Law, where it states that the member we have proposed may also be replaced by a motion to recall all members of the Supervisory Board. If we truly believed that the National Assembly still had a function, we would support not only our amendment to the composition of the Governing Council but also this one. One more time. If you have thought seriously about everything we have discussed today and we also advocate that state property should be settled in one place and that it is wrong to deal with five places with the same investment five times differently; if you have thought seriously, then support our amendments and the problem will be solved.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u165	Thank you. Anything else on article 30? [[No, no, ……]] 31st, 32nd? [[No, no, ……]] 33. 33rd, 34th, 35th, 36th? Yeah. Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u166	I'll start again with what we talked about in the working groups. Here I will look at my colleagues from DeSUS because the working groups have been very committed to the fact that what is currently owned by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, so that this capital investment cannot be managed by SDH on its own. This is not the case in the amendments and proposals you have tabled together. In short, the purchase from the sale of the Triglav Insurance Company, if I'm more specific, will indeed remain the PPIZ, but when and at what value this will be sold will not be decided by the PPIZ or pensioners if you want. I don't know what's changed in the meantime, because you've been great advocates in the working group for this to remain so, and we agree, it's absolutely right that SDH manages this investment, but when or at what cost it will be sold – but it's not small, I think 32% of the insurance company Triglav – should be making decisions by the STIZ and pensioners. I believe that, at least my colleagues at DeSUS, this amendment to Article 36 will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u167	Anyone else on 36th, 36th, 37th, 40th? This is also the last amendment, so we have concluded the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. We will make a decision on the amendments tonight as part of the vote. I hereby terminate this agenda item and interrupt the meeting, which will be resumed at 5 p.m. I'll see you in half an hour.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u168	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue the adjourned session of the assembly. We will vote, we will decide on proposals on individual agenda items, so please check the functioning of the voting devices if you stop the cards. Is everything okay? Can we get started? Yes, you can. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft Law on Personal Assistance in the framework of the regular procedure. We propose to take a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal of the Law on Personal Assistance is not suitable for further consideration." Explanations to the vote on behalf of the Group of Mags. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u169	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, I have chosen 3 minutes. I want to use them to say it again and appeal to you to reject the negative conclusion of the parent's working body. Irony, and it's not even ironic, it's sad that for such an important law by refusing to do so on the labour force, you've practically limited the parliamentary group to 5 minutes. We have five minutes to explain why the law is good to stay in parliamentary procedure! If you allow, in that introductory part, we have heard today, mainly by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, some flat-rate assessments of why they rejected the law: because the law is not supposed to define funding more clearly – even though this is not the case; because the law is supposed to introduce a new procedure for the exercise of personal assistance – which is, last but not least, logical, because the procedure for the exercise of personal assistance is practically not available today because there is no legislation in this area. A third reason why the Ministry or Government does not support the law is that the circle of beneficiaries only binds to severely affected persons — which is not true! The law speaks of the basic criterion and the basic criterion is diagnosis. In short, three reasons why the government, and consequently the government coalition, does not support this law, are not a valid reason. I will remind you once again of the parliamentary procedure and of such a notorious law on the balance of public finances. At that time, the Law-Legal Service of the National Assembly was law-abiding. Each article had an opinion with reservation, even the view that many articles of this law, the law on the balance of public finances — your law, the government law — were contrary to the Constitution. Nevertheless, despite the negative opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, you supported the law! Today, when we decide about a group of people with disabilities who must have the right to decide for themselves, each individual, whether they want to live an independent life, where and with whom they want to live, you said no to this law; but you could correct it in further proceedings! I ask you, on behalf of Positive Slovenia, not to reject the decision of the parent working body. By doing so, we return the law to our mother's working body, where we will have the opportunity and the opportunity to correct it with amendments so that it is acceptable to the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u170	Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Ms Andreja Črnak Meglič on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u171	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, thank you very much! My appeal goes in the direction of not supporting the conclusion of the parent's working body. As I have already said in the opening recital, the law was drawn up on the basis of a draft already made by the Ministry. On the basis of the expert analysis and evaluation of the Institute of Social Protection of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of a one-and-a-half-year coordination with different groups, a huge effort by civil society has been made to prepare a draft law. More! When they received comments from the Legislative and Legal Services they prepared amendments and it is very clear from these amendments that they are in line with what the Legislative and Legal Service has given them. If the government had any other reservations, the power to remove them further. This would show how we take seriously civil society, which has tried and collected 5,000 signatures. This is, as it were, the first marriage we've ever adopted in this way. Now — of course, with consideration — we will see what we have done. I therefore believe that it is an offer of equal cooperation between the Government and civil society in order to speed up the process of adopting this urgently needed law in order to find a solution in a consensual manner with those most committed by this law as soon as possible. Don't tell me it's the same thing, that the marriage is overturned, and then the government prepares a new marriage. No, not the same! This is, I'm going to say, a blow to civil society, a denial of its enormous efforts, so please, the grounds are good enough to remove them as soon as possible. Do not follow the client's instructions! Vote on your news! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u172	There is no interest on behalf of the Group of Members. Who wants to explain their voice individually? I'm opening the application. Mr. Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Present! I will not support the conclusion of the parent's working body. I was also present on a committee where we could listen to people who needed help. To these people, we have also heard the representative today, there is only hope. Today, many of you have bought here in the National Assembly, and this has made you strong for the children who need help. Here are our citizens, citizens who need help not daily or monthly, need every moment, every second. And give them the opportunity and the opportunity to live with dignity, so that they can decide how they will survive for days, weeks, months, perhaps even years. Look, for 16 years they've been trying and waiting for us here in the National Assembly or our predecessors to make a system law, and they didn't. They themselves went, prepared it, of course with some shortcomings, like many laws, it also has this flaw, but if we let it go forward, it can all be fixed. We can do people good if we don't, and we can give hope. Therefore, I will not support this decision, which gives them no hope.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u174	Mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u175	Dear colleagues! In fact, it is sad that we do not find enough power in the National Assembly to adopt a 90 - vote law. Easy! Do you think that people who are so affected as Elena Caverič are not worth taking without a vote, without the obvious on one side or the other, a systemic solution? We don't even respect disabled people so much that when they come to the National Assembly to make sure they're heard. That's a relationship, too. When I was mayor, the company of paraplegics from Maribor gave, free of charge, the municipality of Lenart, a house with a building and a lot of land. It feels good to do something good for people who are really hurt. Regardless of our problems in life, we are happy people because we are healthy. But for those who have not had this happiness, let us help in terms of opportunities and opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u176	Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u177	With great bitterness I accept the Government's attitude, and also with great bitterness I accept the decision of my mother's working body regarding personal assistance, the law, because I do not believe that this relationship is true. Regardless of Elena Cavečarič's impressive presentation, but regardless of the 7,000 signatures of the civil initiative; given that if we are developed and human society, we must also have a relationship with those that are needed. It is not about extending mercy to our people with disabilities, it is about enabling them to have equal conditions and equal opportunities to perceive all these public goods. I absolutely do not agree that the mother labour body has rejected this proposal. I agree that we should move forward, that we should process ourselves, that conditions should be made, in which those who need help, i.e. the disabled, will have the opportunity to live as normal a life as possible. Life has shown them an unfriendly face and I think that the burden or financial burden of the state is not enough to help them and to make at least a little more sustainable conditions for their lives. I certainly will not support this proposal from my mother's working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u178	Mr. Jerko Chehovin. Mag. Leila Hercegovac, I have you on the list, so don't worry.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u179	Thank you for your word. I cannot support this proposal either. I would not mention all these reasons that have been, but I think that this effort that this handicapped part of civil society has put into preparing this law to deserve more, I will say, in-depth and commendable treatment in our national assembly. I think we have the real thing, as Mr Vogrin has already said, the happiness of being healthy and not being confronted with it. I don't think it's right that the National Assembly is further stigmatizing these people. I repeat, I will vote against this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u180	Mrs. Alenka Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u181	When I look at you like this, I'm extremely happy that you're all healthy and beautiful, but it doesn't have to be like this forever. I'm sad that you don't understand that any of you can be equal to these people tomorrow or even your children tonight. You do not all hope to look into the eyes because the expression for your inhumanity and inhumanity cannot be understood. You simply do not realize that the plague of God extends far, perhaps even to you. I will vote against the rejection of the Personal Assistance Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u182	Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Look, the humanities of society show concern for those who need help. So if we vote differently than the opposition proposes, we are an inhumane society – the end. And we decide about people with disabilities who want to live as normal as possible despite the flaws they have. I suggest to those who will vote that the whole thing goes into drawers, sit on a wheelchair tonight, tie your hands and legs to a wheelchair and spend half a day – and you will see what that means!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u184	Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, what are you going to say now when you vote on such an important human, our, parliamentary - the National Assembly will, with such a vote as you propose, actually continue the way of reducing the image, the reputation that it cannot have in this way. If we could make a decision to continue, we would show our heart, we would understand those who need help. I will vote in favour of continuing the Personal Assistance Act against the proposed decision, because it seems to me that this is the only thing a person can do with a heart. What we talked about in the morning and in the afternoon, we talked about rich people, those who have money and have anything else. These people may only have our help and need it. Vote for follow-up! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u186	Mr. Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u187	This law is special. It is special because – as far as my colleague Sam Bevk is concerned about the history of Slovenian Parliamentarianism – it is the first law that has led the citizens' initiative to this point. The purpose of this House is to respect this profoundly democratic path, not to condemn it to failure at its first test. Our responsibility to the 7,000 citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia behind this law is to enable the law to have at least a substantive debate. At least the possibility of correcting it in the light of different opinions and performances. This is what these people deserve because they have chosen the democratic paths that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia allows. Let us not be all-powerful and give them this way. This law is also special for – and may I be spared by the expression – because it is intended for special people. Not especially because they are different from us, but because they are willing to defend what is brightest in their lives because of their immense will to live. And imagine what is best for all of you and for us in our lives – they defend the right to independence in their lives by this law. I absolutely plead that we all together reject the decision and allow the law to achieve substantive treatment, upgrade and then, I hope, adoption on the home labour body.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u188	Mag. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u189	I will vote against this because this law is not suitable for further consideration. We should correct it, and as a human Member, and as a doctor, I really don't understand that we spend so much time on such a marriage. It is true that the quality of one country is directly linked to funding for health care, education development and the care of disabled persons. Nevertheless, it is imperative that this law be corrected and put into a second treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u190	Anyone else want to explain their voice? Mr Borut Ambrožič and Mr Joseph Jerovšek. More of you, once again, I'm opening a statement to explain my voice. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u191	Dear President! Again and again, I am disturbed by the fact that some services are favoured by providers instead of those to whom the law is actually intended. And here it is noted that the coalition proposes that the law is not suitable for further consideration precisely because of favouritism on the part of disability organisations, which are in fact their existence. Their reason, their mission is to help handicapped people and not them because they see their own benefits. Unfortunately, I am very sorry that I am in a building where this is not understood, and I urge you to allow the marriage to be considered, to be discussed. After all, you can make amendments if you're upset! Today, when I was looking here, Mr. Elena Caverič, tears come to your eyes when you see a man sitting trapped in one seat. What Mr Meh or Mr Brulc has proposed, tie yourself to a wheelchair for half a day, and you will see how it feels. I can't believe you're so inhumane if you vote that the law doesn't go on. So let's finish him off! Why do we have to do this with a new system of laws? You always say something. Some system law that will save everyone who will save the miracle. No, that's not what you're doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u192	Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u193	Thank you, President. Dear Members and Members! I will also vote by allowing the procedure to continue. The argument that the law is flawed or legally inconsistent is that I believe you yourself know that it does not. If you look at the number of amendments, the comments of the legislative service and the like we get on the laws that the coalition has tabled these days, you will see that the worse than the laws currently written in the coalition, no law can be written. So do not make any excuses to this argument. Second, this law was introduced by a group of people who are having a hard time. These are groups of people who would be pushed into a corner in neoliberalism, in modern social society – which I hope we all want to be – and these people are being helped. That is why, like, for example, I call on you to allow for some cooperation between the coalition and the opposition and the entire Parliament with people who are having a hard time, to continue this process and during the procedure, the honourable President, also to bring the law into line with the opinion of the competent ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u194	Mr. Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u195	Thank you for your word. Let us not stifle our eyes that in this case we are talking only about 5,000 interested individuals, individuals with such or other health problems. According to existing data in Slovenia, there are 170 thousand people with disabilities and at least 230 thousand individuals with long-term health signs. It is a pity that not all of these have somehow come together, because it is possible that those who are against this adoption of the proposed law with the attitude of civil society, because perhaps greater weight would fall under the responsibility of those who are against, and make the way easier for us who are in favour. I will therefore vote against such a decision, and of course I support the continuation of the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u196	Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u197	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will vote against the decision that ends the way of the law tabled by citizens and citizens. And there's quite a few arguments for that. First time. Because in the title it bypasses what has often been found on two banks in terms of terminology, when using the term 'hendicepiranes' and 'disableds'. The term "personal assistant" is used here. I have read a number of comments from the Legislative and Legal Service, but it has already been said that there are also amendments that can be removed from the legislative and legal service's concerns, and I am joining all those who, if we are to adopt or have to vote on laws to which the Legal and Legal Service has serious concerns, are being prepared by the Government with all its apparatus, then we should give the opportunity for a second reading and an amendment to this law. And another reason why I feel I need such a law. We've been talking about the long-term supply law for a long time. We're talking about a lot of things, we're saying it, we're always finding some argument that it's not the right time. But there will never be such a time. In particular, in the crisis, we should take care not only of those who are in such a position to need personal assistance, but also of those who live and care for with these people. For all of this, it would be an opportunity for this law to be considered further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u198	Mrs. Janja Klasinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u199	Thank you, Mr. President. I will also vote against the opinion of the working body. I must say that I have been following this debate on the committee through the media and that I have been embarrassed. I was appalled at what kind of people we are here. Listen, if that's the amount of people, it's not civil society, but it's people who are life-interested in writing this law. They're people who can't eat, they can't drink, they can't buy, they can't move. In short, if there is a national assembly where there is nothing missing — excuse me, what are we missing?Oh, my God! - so exalted that he can reject such a proposal, a proposal which is the basis of Parliamentism which we have been spitting out in this national assembly in this term, because we do nothing but raise our hands or push the "yes" or "against" government proposals, but here we have a proposal for actually people who know what they need, and they know what they want. That's why I'm telling you, if you're gonna follow the working body again today, you should be ashamed of yourself all of you. So will I, even though I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u200	Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Hypocrisy, double standards and double morality are not my property. I firmly believe that the most humane and most humane party who was in power in the previous term, if the dimension of this problem were really so desperate, would have resolved it long ago, especially since it also has former President UNICEF in its ranks and so on. So this argument that was given here today did not convince me because I think it flirts with dual morality and hypocrisy. However, I must say that I am aware of and am supportive of the continuous improvement of the situation for disabled people. I am also aware that, at the moment that we are, we cannot extend certain social rights through our thumb. If there are many, the legislative service and everyone else who has found that this law is not a suitable basis, I will rely on this opinion without being hypocrisyed and will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u202	Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u203	Shame on him who hopes to point his finger at anyone else! We have a responsibility today and no one else! 90 Members of the National Assembly to respect the will of citizens and citizens! Seven thousand signatures are under the law that they ask for what is given to us and what is given to us by ourselves; so that we can rise up alone in the morning, without help, so that we can eat alone, be able to decide for ourselves, independently, with whom, how we will live. Today, we have the opportunity and the opportunity to enable people who are not just given what is given to them in themselves to make it easier for them to do the same. It is not about superstandard rights, it is about fundamental rights, the right to dignity and independence, respect for the right to free choice. That's what this is about, fellows and colleagues! That's how we like to talk about ethics and morality. Are we capable of putting up a mirror? It reflects the maturity of our society, our decisions. Please and I urge you, you have the opportunity today to, with all responsibility, we are responsible, to reject the decision of the parent working body and to allow the law to be corrected, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the parliamentary procedure, to the extent that it is acceptable to all stakeholders. Once again: I think and I believe we have to do this!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u204	Thank you. We'll vote. Do you still want to explain your voice? Mr. Franz Puksich. There's more of you. I'm opening the application. Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u205	Thank you for your word. Let's step together, consolidate our species, do good! These are words we've been listening to on your side for some time. Colleagues and colleagues from the government coalition, this is not the law proposed by the opposition, so that it should be rejected in such an excruciating way. Think again if you are so many people that those who are not capable of caring for themselves are given a chance. Today we will not decide whether to adopt the law, we will give the opportunity to hold a debate and be supplemented by an amendment to every article, which is your custom when you adopt your laws. Show that you still have a heart, and let us give hope to those who truly live a meaningful life far worse than all of us. Once again: this is not the law of the opposition. Keep that in mind if our things are so difficult to support!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u206	Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u207	Thank you for your word. I will support the proposal to conclude that the law is not suitable for further consideration, as it has already been said in the introduction that the law excludes certain beneficiaries who would also be entitled to personal assistance. At its meeting, the Committee adopted a decision and instructed the Government to draw up a law by the end of the year. That's what the government promised. By the way, at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the Personal Assistance Act is practically ready and JHD has participated in this preparation. So if interest were concerned, it would be possible to adopt a law already in the previous term under Minister Svetlik and Chairman of the Labour Committee, Mrs Megliceva. JHD also participated in this law. Why, then, did they take out of this common law that they had agreed on only what they wanted but only part of what was agreed upon? The co-financing of assistance is already under way and will continue in the way it is now taking place. This is really more difficult for people with disabilities because they have to apply for programmes and it is not about systemic funding. This was also the main argument that we cannot support this law. Because every year it's a question of whether or not they're going to get this money next year. I therefore believe that the law prepared by the Government and aligned with other disability organisations, not just one society, will harmonise it in such a way that it is good for all those in need of personal assistance. Such a law would be a real solution, not that the problem of personal assistants is partially solved. Things need to be done in a long time.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u208	Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! On April 1st 2010, at 10.10 Radiotelevision Slovenia: Elena Pečarič disappointed about the presented law on personal assistance. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues! You were in power at the time, and you had the money, including the one you borrowed from the outside, and you financed the tuxedo to take possession of the property! Back then, colleagues and colleagues – I am talking about those who were both in the government coalition at the time and, of course, those who supported it – you did not bring the law to an end and did nothing when it was possible. You are reading today to some who will not be supported for reasons because the government will be preparing a systemic solution by the end of this year. One more thing, you're not going to tell me and you're going to tie me to a wheelchair, and it's too fast to be in a hospital in the middle of August, because you're locked up and you can't go anywhere, but you're lying at 40 degrees because the tycoons stole the money, instead of making the conditions in Slovenian hospitals. By the way, the Law on Assistance applies and works and works. When I was mayor of Destrinnik, for 8 years we had assistants for those who needed help, even if a concert had to be performed or whatever it took to get out of our own pocket! Well! Of course we are in favour of helping the disabled, maximum, but to all, not just some! You didn't set it up, and we'll do it by the end of the year!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u210	Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u211	Your Honor! I'm one of the rarest, unlike the loudest people who've ever grown up with people like that who needed help in one way or another. I can only tell you that today I find it difficult to define myself to the kind of nonsense that I hear and I have to listen to them here in this room, but I can only say that it is democratic – before I say it, I have one more sentence to say. Indeed, these people want to be equal in this society and there is nothing wrong with rejecting them. Far from it! This is in some ways what they want; if they have at least one right, it is that they can speak where possible and where it is decided. Today, we decide whether they will have the right to speak out and whether or not it is systemic or whether or not they will be able to arrange or not for these things to be triggered. The right to come up with what you talk about is a democratic process, how you're actually gathering these votes to get into the procedure; and that's democratic. It's also democratic to reject them. But it's undemocratic that you stick their mouths on. This was done only in fascism and totalitarian countries. Get them and let them go to the point where they can have a word and tell them "face to face" what you think they're doing, have this power that you won't be ashamed of today, when you can communicate and hide from them in this way, because you know they can't really talk. They can't be in front of a camera like you this time, unlike them. However, I cannot support such a proposal, because we only accept such proposals in fascism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u212	Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u213	Thank you very much. I'm sure there's no one here in the hall who doesn't have a heart, especially the kindness to oppose all those people who need personal assistance. All those who see daily in the family circle, what this means, certainly cannot vote in favour of such a proposal; hence, that the Personal Assistance Act would not be suitable for further consideration. I will vote against it, because I am sure it would be right for everyone here to support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u214	Mr. Roman Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u215	22. 4. At night 2002, a stroke of spinal cord struck my 13 - year - old child. Like a 13-year-old kid, he got diapers. That's why it's so hard to talk when I listen to my colleagues talk about something when they don't know what. If we don't give these people an assistant, we've killed them. These people can't not eat, they can't drink, they can't brush their teeth, they can't dress, they can't do anything. We kill them. I'm really fond of humanity here. Give them the opportunity to express their feelings in the second reading and to supplement this law with all the concerns you have. One of the concerns was that there were no other groups involved to exclude deaf and deaf. It's true. We can put them in. But these 500 — today you have been watching Elena Caverič. Do you know how much work it is for them to come so arranged in front of you? Someone needs to wake her up, brush her teeth, get her hair done, put her foot over her leg, put her arm under her head and bring her here. And that's why these people need an assistant so that they can do the same here in front of you today. So, of course, I will not support the board's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u216	Anyone else want a word? Dr. Andreja Black Neglec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Yes, Mr Jerovšek, I am very grateful to you for reminding me of my past. It was really one of the great periods of my life where I could demonstrate humanitarianism with the children of the world. And I have to say that this is something that is an integral part of me and my personality. That's why I have as much heart for those who fight to have roughly the same living conditions as we do, as far as possible. As far as the previous government is concerned, let me say that the study was prepared as a basis for the law, a draft law was prepared and would also be considered. I, too, the president of the committee, where I have done a lot for the disabled, would gladly bring this law through the parliamentary procedure, and unfortunately the combination of what it was last year, did not allow our government to continue its work. However, this is not so essential and these left and right eyes just show that you are looking for excuses not to do what you should do. And that is to allow this law to continue. I repeat: this law is not written in such a way that it cannot be repaired.Oh, my God! This law already has ready amendments, which are fully in line with the recommendations of the Legislative and Legal Service, which is not your law on holding – you will therefore reject – and on the other hand opens the way for it to extend to those groups that may not be found in this law. I'm saying that's not entirely true. On the other hand, I would also say that taking and narrowing down democracy to the fact that only what our government says can go on, but the rest cannot, shows how narrow the diapazone views you have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u218	Mag. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u219	Thank you so much for saying that. I think we must show solidarity and democracy in this temple as well. These promises, when there is an idea that this will be resolved systematically, are already so much to the end of the year that I fear if the government is able to draw up all these system laws. I don't know if that's what government officials are writing down because it's already huge. Let us give this group of people who have given this idea an opportunity to develop their idea to the end, and then let us decide: yes or no! I will vote that the procedure for this law continues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u220	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We will vote on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a Personal Assistance Act is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 40. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the decision has been taken by the National Assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act following the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting of the National Assembly, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 86 votes against none. [[The vote was 86.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the third item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Slovenian State Holding by Emergency Procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendments. The decision on the amendments will be made on the basis of a review of the amendments you recently received on the bench. First, we decide on the amendment of the coalition to Article 1. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 11. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 2. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 51 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 4. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 9. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 6. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 9. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 7. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 9. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. In Article 8, we first vote on the amendment to the amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 48. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the amendment to the amendment is not accepted. We are also voting on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 8. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, for 50, for 13. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 9. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, for 51, for 9. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're going to the amendments to Article 10. First of all, we are voting on the amendment of Article 10 of the Social Democrats' Group. I would like to point out that if this amendment is adopted, it becomes an amendment under point 2, which is an amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups, irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u221	Thank you for your word. With the previous amendment, which we voted on in Article 9, it was decided that the National Assembly could only give its consent to the capital investment management strategy. So the National Assembly will have no chance to change this strategy, but it can only agree or reject it. Therefore, we are proposing an amendment to Article 10, which provides that the annual capital investment management plan is even more precise and should be further specified, but it is being approved by the National Assembly on a proposal from the SDH administration, the supervisory board's agreement, the government's agreement, etc. In short, we want the National Assembly to know at least in the national programme what will happen to the assets that will be planned either for sale or for the preservation of some value in a way or another that should be defined in sectoral policies that are supposed to be part of the capital investment management strategy. And the biggest flaw in this law as a whole is that these sectoral policies will not be in the strategy and in these governance plans. So we will not, in fact, have the necessary information on how and why a certain investment should be managed in a certain way. In the amendment, we also propose that the Slovenian State Holding should not be additionally indebted, except for up to EUR 5 million per year for ongoing operations and for the refinancing of commitments transferred to the holding by the Slovenian Compensation Society. Why is it not good that the holding company is in additional debt? For the first time, I don't think I know how long it's been since you've seen the previous government – or, above all, the previous government – that it's in debt. Holding is, in fact, a parallel private-owned country and you allow this holding company to be additionally indebted. This holding will generate revenue through the dividends of these companies, which will be included in this holding and when you talk about that the revenue of the budget by dividends, if the holding company is to be in debt, will have to settle liabilities and will not be in the budget. EUR 80 to 100 million is this instant revenue to the state budget for capital investments. All of this will go away if the holding company is in debt, so we are proposing this amendment to maintain the liquidity of the state budget, which is certainly the biggest problem right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u222	Good. So we will vote on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 10. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, for 20, for 49. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. And the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 10. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, for 51, for 11. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 12. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 10. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 10.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 13. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 51 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 10.]] The amendment was accepted. In Article 14, we first have the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats. If it is accepted, it becomes an amendment under point 2, which is an amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups, irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u223	Thank you for your word. In the amendment to Article 14, we would also like to draw attention to the significant shortcomings of the law that you obviously intend to adopt without seriously considering the consequences of this adoption. I reiterate that, in this amendment, we are trying to mitigate at least a little our claim to the end of the century if this law is adopted in the same content as you are now accepting. In fact, it's a method of managing investments. Your point is that the way in which assets are sold is determined only later in the classification itself. Thus, when we adopt a law, we have not determined anything by what method property can be sold. We propose that all samples known in the public sale process be used; that is, public tender, public auction, public tendering, supply of securities. Negotiations may be selected in public procurement and so on. In short, we want no legal void to arise, because if this amendment is not adopted, the Slovenian compensation company will be able to sell out a number of companies in which it has a stake. Last but not least, the Law-Legal Service also warns. So, without the Government's consent, without the consent of the National Assembly, unless this amendment is adopted, the Slovenian Compensation Society will only be able to carry out the sale process by direct agreement with the one who is supposed to buy this property. We all know what a direct agreement means. This one's not free. Here comes the problem of commissions and the sale of Slovenian property: not because of the interests of the country, not because of the resolution of economic problems, not because of the resolution of unemployment, but because of the resolution or acquisition of unjustifiable funds from commissions and the enrichment from this title, but also because of the known fact that this law has only one priority: the early payment of denationalisation obligations and nothing else. It is not a development law, but a law that exhausts Slovenia, and if we exhaust it, we want this amendment to happen at least through a public tender, so that at least some concrete value that is measurable and verifiable can be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u224	We are voting on the amendment of Article 14 of the Social Democrats' Group. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 47. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 47.]] The amendment was not accepted. We still have the amendment under points 2 to 14. This is an amendment to the coalition's parliamentary groups. We are still voting on this amendment. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 10. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 10.]] Amendment accepted. Amendment of Article 15 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 11. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 11.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 16 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 9. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 17. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 11. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 11.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 19 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 51 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 10.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 20. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 51 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 10.]] The amendment was accepted. Now we have the amendments to Article 21. There's three of them. So, under order numbers 1, 2, and 3. Under order number one, we have the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors. If adopted, the amendments under points 2 and 3 shall become irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u225	Thank you for your word. To the 21st Article on the composition of the Supervisory Board, we are proposing an amendment proposing that the true National Assembly will have a greater importance, a more important role in the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board. We propose that they be named on the basis of a preliminary hearing at the home work body of the National Assembly. We need to know that these are the people who will sit in the control world and manage 12 to 13 billion assets. This is a weight, i.e. a much greater responsibility than today's many ministers in the current government have on a particular field. And it doesn't matter who decides how these billions will be managed; it doesn't matter whether he has experience in this management; whether he proposes solutions that go in the direction of improving economic growth or in the direction of disposing of assets and accumulation of these assets abroad. It is therefore important that those who want to be appointed by the National Assembly to the Supervisory Board also be properly heard at meetings of the home labour body, as we do with ministers when they run for this post. By later taking an oath before the National Assembly to respect the Constitution, the rule of law and to act for the state and the welfare of the people. This will not be necessary, but at least we will be able to question them so that we know what kind of people they are or what their ability to carry out such challenging tasks is. We also propose that the President of the Republic appoint representatives to the Supervisory Board. After all, it is the President who is elected by the people in the direct elections. They choose the name and surname and say it will be the President of the Republic of Slovenia. Why would this President, who has an extremely important role to play, not have the opportunity to propose experts to oversee the board, who will manage or participate in the management of 13 billion assets? We propose that employees also participate in management. Why should not employees who actually bear the full burden of the economic crisis participate in the management of these billions? These are our proposals in this amendment. I hope he gets support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u226	We therefore vote on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 21 of the bill. The vote is under way. There are 84 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 48. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] The amendment was not accepted. Under number 2, we have an amendment to the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. So, the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia has tabled an amendment to the amendment. We vote on this amendment to the amendment. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 50. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 50.]] The amendment to the amendment was not accepted. And now the amendment to which the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia has tabled that amendment to the amendment. Don't be confused: we will now vote on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 21. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 12. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 12.]] The amendment was accepted. We now have two amendments to Article 22, namely the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. If voted, then the amendment under point 2, this is the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors, irrelevant. So, we're voting on [[...]] Mr Janko Weber, please explain your vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u227	In the amendment to Article 22 of the Social Democrats, we point out that the political independence of the administration of the Slovenian State Holding should indeed be ensured. We therefore propose that political party officials should not participate in the administration of the Slovenian State Holding Board. It is a three-member administration which has the power under this law to draw up a capital investment management strategy in the Republic of Slovenia. I reiterate that it is 13 billion assets, and the three famous managers are obviously sufficiently capable of drawing up a strategy for all sectoral policies in this country: let it be transport, let it be energy, let it be an economy as such. In short, an incredible set of experts will apparently come from political parties who will get to know everyone. In fact, we want to limit this political interest and political recruitment in a way that does not refer to those who operate in the political parties' bodies. I think it is extremely important that we do not leave the management of this holding company to narrow political interests in the management of the Slovenian state holding company – if we say it is Slovenia. Unfortunately, it is all the time that this law is about trying to follow the narrow political interest of the current ruling coalition. Well, I'm sorry, if this government changes, the other government will have the same powers as you do right now. But it's proven to be the worst solution. Businesses that depend on political influence flourish when politicians allow them to achieve their business results. When power changes, of course they dry, others grow, and people get hurt in the middle because they don't know what they're dealing with. In fact, the worst part is for the profession, because if we are professionally subordinated to the pursuit of political interests, we have, of course, done the greatest damage. It is therefore very important that we prevent those who are actively involved in political parties from participating in the authorities or in the administration of the Slovenian State Holding Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u228	So, we're going to vote on the amendment. [[...]] Yes, and an explanation for the voice, individually. Mag. Maja Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u229	Thank you. I will not do anything different in this article 22 and the amendment of the coalition than I have done so far, which means I will vote against it, but I would like to point out a new moment in this amendment. I understand that we want to do business internationally, that we are also looking outside of Slovenia for people, but what I am particularly pointing out is that this will be a Slovenian state holding company. According to Article 11 of the Slovenian Constitution, Slovenian is an official language, in economic operators Slovenian as a business language is also ordered and it is among the conditions only to actively master the English language. So, if by strange coincidence anyone in the administration of this state holding company will be a Slovenian citizen or Slovenian citizen, it is a condition for him to master the English language. What does that mean for business, for communications to the public, for all communication, and obviously nobody cares or cares. I don't agree with that, I'm warning you. When we talk about sovereignty, linguistic sovereignty is one of the external essential identifying traits and we only set the conditions for knowledge of a foreign language, and we don't care about anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u230	Thank you. We can go to the vote. So we are voting on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 22. The vote is under way. There are 86 Members and Members present, 53 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 10.]] The amendment was adopted and thus the amendment under order number 2 became irrelevant. Amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 23. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 10.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 24 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 9. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 25. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 9. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 26 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 9. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 27, and this is also an amendment to the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 9. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 28 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 52 votes against 10. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 10.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 29. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 9. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 30 of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. If this amendment is adopted, then the amendment under points 2 and 3 shall become irrelevant. First of all, we have under point 1 of the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, point 2 – the amendment to the amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, and under point 3 we have the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the coalition. First of all, we are voting on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u231	Thank you for your word. Article 30 speaks of the reporting of the Slovenian State holding company in the National Assembly, which is supposed to happen once a year. We propose that at least this period is in line with the provisions of the Company Act. This is not even so important, more importantly, that if our amendment is adopted, the holding will also be committed to information of a public nature. This is the essential difference when we talk about whether the National Assembly will have information about what is happening to state property or not. Once again, the Capital Investment Management Agency is committed to public information where the State authority is. It is also obliged by the Agency to be supervised by the Court of Auditors, of course holding will not be subject to review by the Court of Auditors. Holding is not obliged to give information of a public nature if anyone wants to ask how much a member of the payroll administration has, he will be able to reply: "Sorry, this is a business secret." I don't think there's any secret that these salaries are going to be around 20, 30 thousand euros, at least because they're not limited to any law that they're going to have on board and in the control world. But they won't have to disclose these salaries. They will not have to disclose other business decisions because they are not bound by public information. And when we consider the report in the National Assembly, when we demand a detailed view of why an investment is being sold, why an investment is being mismanaged, we will certainly, as so far as we have, receive the answers: "Sorry, this is a business secret and we must not disclose it to you because we are bound by the Law on Economic Companies." In fact, this is that step and that abuse of power when you propose a law in a way that no one can ask what will happen to these 13 billion; of course, in a way that will give you a clear and accurate answer. Here again I argue that it will be possible to carry out a number of procedures that lead to the theft of the century. This amendment allows the public – not only the National Assembly, but also the public – to get information about what is happening to their property, which, by contrast, became their own holding company; it will not be theirs anymore, but will not be owned by the holding company, nor will they have any questions about what this holding company will do with this property if this amendment is not adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u232	Thank you. We therefore vote on the amendment of Article 30 of the Social Democrats' Group. The vote is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present and 24 votes against 46. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 46.]] The amendment was not accepted. Now the amendment to the amendment. This amendment to the amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 49. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 49.]] The amendment was not accepted. Amendments to Article 30 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour and 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 10.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment to Article 31 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, for 51, for 9. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment of Article 32 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, for 50, for 9. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 33. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, for 52, for 9. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Then we have the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 33a. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 53 to 8. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment to Article 34 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, for 51, for 9. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment of Article 35 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present for 52, against 9. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have several amendments under Article 36, namely the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors. If adopted, amendments under points 2, 3, 4 and 5 shall become irrelevant. Mr Janko Weber will explain the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u233	Thank you. This is one of the key articles and also the Legal and Legislative Service has made it very clear that it is a legal void. This is a transitional period where neither the Government nor the National Assembly will have any effect on what will happen to the assets of the Slovenian Compensation Society and the Capital Society. So it is a transitional period that actually allows and gives a great opportunity to carry out what will be agreed in the cabinet, for example, the President of the Government, and will not be linked to any procedure that would give an insight to the National Assembly or, otherwise, to the Government. Everything is going to happen unofficially; and believe me, I don't think you need to be convinced: the opportunity to make a thief. During this transitional period, the legal void will be when this law does not oblige, I reiterate, neither the Capital Company nor the Slovenian Compensation Company, to lead the sales process in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, but directly through an agreement, with those interested in, say, buying this property. In other words, it will be sold where probably the Prime Minister of the Government will say that we will sell it under these conditions and share it. But look, this is where I would specifically point out the problem of pensioners. Here can be sold without the consent of the Government and the National Assembly also the 34% share of the Insurance Company Triglav. So our highest quality companies, and this proportion refers to the very part which is linked to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. All of this can happen without the consent of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, without the consent of the Government, of course the official agreement of the Government, without the consent of the National Assembly. When the law enters into force, you will only be able to observe what has happened, and what we are alerting will happen. We will lose a 34% equity share in our most important and healthy economic society or one of the most healthy companies in the Triglav Insurance Company. But this property will, say, be sold for 100 million euros, and the value of the guarantees that insurance companies have will be 2.5 billion euros. And those who will buy them for 100 million will, of course, market 2.5 billion guarantees from our companies, our citizens, and this is the system that reveals the interest and actually the possibility of stealing our assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u234	We are voting on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group. The vote is under way. There are 86 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 48. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 48.]] The amendment was not accepted. Then we have under point 2. of the amendment to the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 49. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 49.]] The amendment to the amendment was not accepted. We also have an amendment to the amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia under point 3. We're voting. I'm sorry, I'm interrupting the vote because my colleague is a magician. Alenka Bratušek announced that she would explain her vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u235	Thank you so much for saying that. In view of the fact that, following the adoption of the miracle law of the ZUJF, we have heard on several sides that certain Members and even ministers did not know what they were adopting in this law and that 26 thousand pensioners will be deprived, some up to a quarter of them, I would like to point out that with this amendment, if they support our amendment, they will leave the pensioners to decide on the property they own. I have already said in the debate that this is a large proportion of the Triglav Insurance Company. It is right, I stress, that this is managed in one place, but it should be available with the consent of those who have been given this property for a certain purpose. And please, then you won't be able to say that you didn't know it was in marriage. That's why I just picked up the phone. In short, allow PPIZ and pensioners to decide what is theirs.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u236	We are voting on the amendment under order number 3, this is the amendment to the amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 47. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] The amendment was not accepted. And also under order number 4, we have an amendment to the amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 45. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45.]] The amendment was not accepted. And we also have the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 36. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 9. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment of Article 36a of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 51 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 10.]] The amendment was accepted. Then we have the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 37. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 9. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The amendment was accepted. And also, to your pleasure, Mr. Brultz, the last amendment. This is an amendment to Article 40, an amendment to the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 10. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 10.]] The amendment was accepted. In the second reading, I note that we have adopted the amendments to the following Articles: 1, 2, 4, 6 to 10, 12 to 17, 19 to 33a, 34 to 36a, 37 and 40 of the amended proposal. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table third-read amendments to these amendments? Mr. Jože Tanko, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u237	Thank you very much. We'll probably table the amendments. I also predict that we will carefully examine all amendments of the opposition parliamentary groups that have been in this process in this vote. And what we will consider to be appropriate will be taken into account in the third reading amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u238	The amendments for the third hearing are announced, so I am terminating this item on the agenda, which we will continue with the third hearing scheduled for Friday, 28. 9. We also need to conclude a legislative procedure for a proposal for a law that is not a basis. That won't be necessary. Procedurally, Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u239	Mr President, we are, in fact, a complete or complete reform of the law. What is the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service? What's the law? What is the opinion of the Slovenian government on what happened here today, because this law is no longer the one proposed. It's brand-new. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u240	The Legal and Legislative Service has pointed out some urgent harmonisations. I have also understood Mr Tank, as a qualified amendment candidate, that amendments will be tabled for the third reading to ensure that those amendments that could eventually be brought into line with the opposition proposal and compromise on some of the issues that have been raised. So, we've broken it off. We'll continue on Friday. This also depends, of course, on whether the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy will conclude its consideration of the Act on the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to rehabilitate banks tomorrow. If so, we will be able to deal with and deal with this law in the third reading on Friday. So, the Slovenian State Holding Act. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. We will decide on the proposals to hold a debate on the answers of ministers to individual parliamentary questions. We will first decide on the proposal for a decision to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žige Turk, to the question of mags. Majde Potrat in connection with the critical situation in higher education. Explanation of the vote in its name mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u241	Thank you. I propose that this proposal be supported because I see support for it also in the decision of the parent working body, which adopted the decision to hold a public debate, a broader debate on the situation in higher education. I'm cutting back now. In view of the fact that the Government has reclassified the originally envisaged law, which is supposed to follow an urgent procedure, into law after a reduced procedure which does not allow discussion, it would be appropriate for interested public and professional public to give the opportunity to speak about matters of essential importance. I would appeal at least to reclassify the procedure from the reduced to the regular procedure, to buy time, but at the same time a debate is held in Parliament, which is not open to participation by the interested and professional public. This would be a step towards what some are excruciatingly claiming to exist as a means of dialogue. In the opposition, at least in the Group of Social Democrats, we do not see such a willingness to engage in dialogue. Now's the chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u242	Thank you. We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 83 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, the family of n social affairs mag. Andrej Visiak on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the Can we vote? We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Joyful Žereva on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the Voice explanation, mag. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u243	Thank you so much for saying that. Economic growth is fatal for the Slovenian state. If economic growth doesn't grow, we won't have social, sports, anything. The negative economic growth foreseen for this year will worsen more than 200 measures in the third package in the following year 2013. And it is likely to be negative in 2014. It is very important to hold a public debate, with more knowledge at large, to help Minister Žerjav, in particular, to achieve greater economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u244	We are voting on the proposal for a decision. There are 82 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 48. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar to Mr Dark Jazbec's question on the financial implications of the merger of the Institute for Health and Regional Health Institutions in two public institutions. Mr. Jazbec, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u245	Thank you very much. I will vote in favour because there has practically been no answer to the question. It's a story that's been going on for months. It is a problem of bringing together the Institute for Health Protection and nine district health care institutions. First, it was a proposal to create a mega institution, then it was a proposal to create a smaller institution, now there are two institutions, one for the laboratory and one for public health. So, one is supposed to be turning money, the other is more professional. In short, the story changes all the time, it's alive, and obviously it doesn't know exactly what it wants, or it knows what it wants, but it doesn't know how to do it. I will vote in favour because, in the health-saving phase, public health needs to be given more importance; the more we work on prevention, the less the cost of curating. Another reason why "yes" – because virtually all nine district health care institutions against this merger and profession must have their weight because centralisation is visible. Today, I have heard from the coalition several times that you are disappointed with the opposition. Dear Members, if you vote against it, you will not disappoint the opposition, you will disappoint your constituents because you will let them know that you are not interested in public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u246	We vote on the proposal for a decision. Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, explanation of voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u247	Thank you so much for saying that. Very briefly. I will support my fellow Member in the vote. The Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia requested a reference to this subject two months ago to the extraordinary meeting of the Health Committee, before the parliamentary holidays. At that time, another proposal on the same subject was put into the National Assembly, and at that time we heard from some coalition Members that this proposal was consistent. In fact, our government and the coalition MPs are constantly working for systemic consistent solutions. Then, on the basis of the debate that took place on the parental committee, we arrived within two months, in the midst of a parliamentary holiday, to a new, systemic, yet consistent proposal, which again opposes those affected by the legislation. I think it makes sense that, before we are back in the National Assembly and then in the plenary, we decide on this important subject, perhaps at first sight it does not seem important, but we are talking about public health. Let us hold an answer or debate in the National Assembly on the response of the Minister of Health. Last but not least, as was heard yesterday, the Minister of Health does not know what the relevant systemic solution in this area should be. I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u248	We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 48. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 48.]] The decision was not adopted. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Finance Minister Dr. Janez Šuštersič and Minister of Economic Development and Technology mag. Joyful Žereva on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the Mag. Leila Hercegovac, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u249	It is a law that is prescribed under German law and is prescribed wrongly. This is a legally contested decision because in the law, what relates to a society with unlimited liability is a natural person in Germany and a legal person in Germany. So, limited liability partners are punished, if it is a minus, they have to replace it, but if it is a plus, they are also punished by the Ministry of Finance with income, which has so far been 18%, since 1. 1. 2013 will be 25%. But even if you vote against Articles 94 to 97 in the law changing, I will send to the same ministries a question for written answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u250	Thank you. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 48. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 48.]] The decision was not adopted. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Radovan Žerjava and Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic, on Mr Gaspar Gaspar Gaspar Mišić's question about safe measures to promote the development of tourism. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u251	The Honorable President. My proposal to hold a broader public debate on the basis of my question is justified by the fact that tourism is an opportunity for Slovenia to come out of the crisis. As we are given the opportunity to unify two sectoral policies, the policy of the Ministry of Economy and the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture. In the past, it has always been wrong for us to write a set of wishes in the strategy, which could not be achieved in practice. For this reason, it is essential that politicians unite to complement each other and not exclude each other. This applies to all policy areas. It is crucial that I see the opportunity now, because Slovenia has a geostrategic position and a lot of resources and the possibility to carry out one comprehensive review of the state of tourism. Tourism is the most growing economic sector in the world, which I hope in Slovenia, we are not aware of much. We are not aware that this is an opportunity for all Slovenians and Slovenians, that this is an opportunity to develop and start not only an economy like this and tourism, but in particular to speed up the sale of agricultural products, to extend the season in autumn and winter. All of this needs to be coordinated between the two ministries, so I suggest you support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u252	Thank you. We vote on the proposal for a decision. 82 Members and Members are present. The vote was 28 and 52. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 52.]] The proposal for a decision was not adopted. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žige Turka, to the question of mag. Majde Potrat related to the consequences of the reduction of the RTV contribution. Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u253	Thank you for your word. The law gives the government the opportunity to reduce the RTV contribution to 1. 9. 2012 by 10 %. This government has done so, it will impoverish public service software resources. In his reply, Minister Žiga Turk talked a lot about internal reserves and a lot of other things, but there was no answer to the specific question of what this would mean for the State budget to be made available for the public service. That is why this can be an opportunity for us to get clear answers to the question again as to how the Ministry of Public Service tasks sees, even though the tasks of the law are clearly defined, but we do not seem to have the same expectations and the same commitments as regards the implementation of the public service. As it is said, it would be good for the Minister to have the opportunity to answer the questions that are essential for the Group of Social Democrats, which advocates quality public service, in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u254	Thank you. Mag. Alenka Bratušek, including explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u255	We have also devoted some time to reducing the contribution of RTV to the Commission for the supervision of public finances. I would just like to point out that the RTV contribution for 2013 has not been set at all. I have already said more than once, 10% of nothing is still nothing, unless under the new laws, as the RTV contribution must be laid down in the law, it is now laid down in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, which has a duration of up to the end of this year, it is said that for 2013 there is no, unless after a new act what should be in the law can be adopted by the Government with decisions. Mr President, I hope that is still not the case. One more time. Ten percent of nothing is still, unfortunately, nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u256	Mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u257	On the Committee on Public Finance Supervision, the main argument for the reduction of RTV procurement was, of course, the saving of family budgets. The argument seems to me a little insufficiently justified on the fact that this will amount to 1.3 euros per month for the family and approximately 16 euros per year. Of course, I understand that this concern may be true, but further action must follow. We lower all state, municipal and other fees by 10%, lower municipal contributions, lower electricity by 10% and so on. So the family income of Slovenian families usually falls. All the services I've been talking about are growing, of course. If there is real concern for families in reducing RTV contributions, taking care of family budgets, then please, let us start doing this systemicly, and I will also be sure that this is our sincere wish, and that it is not like Mr Mag. The stepfather said he felt there was still something in the back. This, of course, may be a little sad.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u258	We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 85 Members and Members present, 36 to 47. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žige Turka, to Mrs Tamare Vont's question on the new systemisation of the Republic of Slovenia's Archive. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 32 to 48. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 48.]] The proposal for a decision was not adopted. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žige Turka, to the question of Mrs Jožef Kavtičnik, on the abolition or integration of public institutions in the field of education and education. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Interestingly, the few Members and Members we have been here have been able to hear that the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport has received the most questions and has given the least concrete answers. Ladies and gentlemen, if we continue to decommission education, what the Minister is doing, we will dismantle this country, and this is already happening. The abolition of public institutions such as the Pedagogical Institute, the Institute of Education, etc., is an intervention, a grave intervention in scientific research work in the field of education and education. I asked the minister if he could tell me what the financial consequences or savings would be. He couldn't answer. He could not tell what the quality or inadequacy of the new institution would be, so, of course, I would like to give the minister the opportunity to speak publicly here, in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u260	Thank you. We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 83 Members and Members present, 35 to 47. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has not been adopted. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Zvonk Černač, to Mrs Alenka Pavlič's question on the reconstruction or construction of road infrastructure. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 35 to 47. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has not been adopted. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mr Aleš Hojs, Minister of Defence, to Mr Dark Jazbec's question on the implementation of the decisions of the Defence Committee concerning the regional information centres. Mr. Darko Jazbec, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u261	Thank you very much. I will vote in favour because the answer given by the Minister does not solve the problem. It is a problem of bringing together six regional information centres after 22 p.m. in Slovenia. Now, since July, there's been a lot of communication problems on the ground. All these problems prolong intervention time. Here I also have a document whose signature is the Ministry of Defence, where they made measurements and admitted or proved that radio stations in certain areas do not work. There's no signal. Mr Pukšič, Mr Jurša, the most uncovered region is from Destrinnik to Ljutomer. These people are now at greater risk. So we know that one minute in the resuscitation, the resuscitation of the human being is 10% less likely to be successful. The government now has the power to take that minute away, but I don't think it has the right for a certain group of people in certain regions to do so. Here, I don't know if you understand me, it's not a political question, left, right, it's a matter of life. And it would be good for you to vote like that. Or take responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u262	We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 80 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 45. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45.]] The proposal for a decision was not adopted. Next proposal: At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Mr Zvonk Černač, Minister for Infrastructure and Space and Minister for Agriculture and Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic, to Mrs Renata Brunskole's question on the construction of the third development axis. Voice explanation, Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u263	Thank you very much. The acceleration of the construction of the third development axis, the southern part, is a major and extremely important project for the Republic of Slovenia, especially in relation to the fact that colleague Stepišnik mentioned that we are facing a decline in economic growth, with a high unemployment rate of over 100,000 people without work, a 20% drop in investment in the Republic of Slovenia this year. The third development axis would certainly be a solution that would have concrete effects with the promotion of the economy, especially in the field of construction, while at the same time bringing about a balanced regional development of the Republic of Slovenia, which undoubtedly represents both the region of Koroška and the region of the White Krajina, for which we cannot say that it has a quality road connection. Therefore, I propose that a public debate be held in connection with this important project, our debate at the next meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u264	We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] The proposal for a decision was not adopted. And also a proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar to the question of mags. Lejle Hercegovac in relation to the consequences of the Public Finance Balance Act, which are reflected in medical work and brain drain. Mag. Leila Hercegovac, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u265	Your Honor! The doctors are really going abroad. The government of the administration has deteriorated with the Public Finance Balance Act. The explanation is that it took the specialists three months before for the administration, they had already started work, now by law, with the adoption of the ZUJF, they need six months. Well, they're taking wages for the time being, but they're not in the job. The same is true for post-specialisation specialists; it is the same for contracts between health institutions; it is the same for concessionaires, where the problem is that they are actually now illegal contracts after the adoption of the ZUJF. This can and will be done in a ministry where everyone really needs, with the exception of normal documentation, documentation from the Ministry, the Council of Institutions or mayors. So it is not only a reason to reduce wages, but it is a reason to reduce the prices of health services, between and above doctors of certain mobbings, a specific recruitment in health care that is practically mediocre. And those who are capable either feel bad or leave. That's why it's a really big health problem. You can read about this yourself in the papers. Please vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u266	We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 46. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 46.]] The proposal for a decision was not adopted. I hereby terminate this agenda item, which we will continue on Tuesday 2. Ten. 2012 at 12 p.m. with questions from Members to the President of the Government. We continue with the interruption of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities by Emergency Procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 25 September 2012. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia to Article 10. Explanation of voice. Would anyone like to do it on behalf of the Group of Members? Mr Matjaž Zanoškar on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u267	Thank you for your word. The law in an emergency procedure is, of course, a procedure in which anomalies and errors are allowed or also occur. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we consider that one of the major deviations from our wishes is in Article 10, which is why we are proposing an amendment for Article 10. This amendment is nothing more than to retain the state now in Article 24 of the current law. It protects itself and somehow puts in place a mechanism for anti-corruption actions that could result from the transfer of state property to local communities. This also ensures that the term 'public interest' and that the term 'public interest' is incorporated into this five-year period in which the local communities of this property acquired from the State must not be alienated or sold. The Anti-Corruption Commission also agreed and gave the same opinion. That is why we believe that the amendment that we are making is involved and that it is worthy of our support. Of course, I must also say that if our amendment to Article 10 is adopted in some way, then the whole law will also receive our support. Otherwise, we consider that this is not a sufficient mechanism to protect real property that would be transferred to the local community and that this is too much of a corruption risk if we adopted Article 10 without this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u268	Thank you. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. Who wants to explain their voice? Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Well, there was a broader debate yesterday on this point in Parliament, and we have practically not come any further than usual. Members of Positive Slovenia and therefore we have also tabled an amendment, we have paid attention to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, to the opinion of the Anti-Corruption Commission. We also received the opinion of the Association of Civilly United Organizations of Slovenia and today the opinion of the Society on the ethicality of the public activity of the Integrity. All these opinions point out that this law opens up the possibility of incorporating systemic corruption into legislation in Article 10. Yesterday, we wanted a clear answer from the Minister's Secretary of State today, whether the Ministry or the Government would take into account the anti-corruption commission's opinion. If you allow the Anti-Corruption Act, it is clear that the role of the Anti-Corruption Commission is also to give an opinion on the draft laws and other rules before they are dealt with by the Government, to harmonise the provisions of the laws and other regulations governing the prevention of corruption and the prevention and elimination of conflicts of interest. You beat your own marriage. In Article 10 of our amendment, we are trying to eliminate the anomaly that you are committing, and we are also following the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and all those organisations that I listed earlier. I ask for support, because if, as my colleague has already said, our amendment is supported, we will follow and also fully support the Law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u270	We are voting on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia to Article 10 of the bill. We're voting. There are 84 in attendance, 34 in favour, 48 in favour. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 48.]] The amendment was not accepted. Amendments to Article 13, we have two amendments under point 1 of the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups if an amendment under order number 2 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 83 in attendance, 49 votes against 26. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 26.]] Amendment accepted. The amendment under order number 2 has become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 14 of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 83 in attendance, 31 in favour, 48 in favour. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 48.]] The amendment was not accepted. We still have the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia to Article 14. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mrs Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Our amendment to Article 14 wants to help, in particular, companies operating in small or medium-sized municipalities, most often without public interest status, and they certainly mean a great deal in individual local communities. Our proposal was that, on the basis of the decision of the self-government local community, the municipal council, some society could act in the interest of this congregation, this congregation council, so that it could be leased, say, individual premises. It is not possible to do this now, and because of this, I must say, after this discussion I have received several calls from various congregations, smaller societies, such as the Watch Tower Good Day theaters, where they have just said that they have such a problem and that this is actually a matter that it would be right for them to also try to harmonise in the framework of the Law and Law Service and this kind of proposal to be adopted. In fact, in Slovenia it is not only large municipalities, it is not only companies with a status in the public interest, but, if not, it takes up to one year to gain this status. Smaller societies, such as various societies, including handicrafts or such, mean a lot to a small local community, and at the national level they probably wouldn't get this status. Therefore, I propose that we accept this amendment. It is a life amendment, a life-altering amendment, not an amendment related to whether it is a coalition, an opposition, but the life-use of this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u272	We're voting on the amendment. There are 85 in attendance, 38 in favour, 46 in favour. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] The amendment was not accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and thus a second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. In the second reading, we adopted the amendment to Article 13. I ask qualified applicants whether they intend or predict any further amendments to this amendment to the third reading article. No, no, no. Then I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government have not informed me that due to the amendments adopted in the second reading, the proposal for a law is in any way inconsistent, so we can move on to a decision on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We're voting. [[advertising from the hall]] Okay, explanation for the voice. On behalf of the delegation? Does anyone want to do this on behalf of the Group of Members? [[Nobody.]] In your own name? Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u273	In fact, this law as an idea, as a solution to some problems, could be supported. However, I cannot help but see that the Slovenian Government has voluntarily amended Parliament's decision or stopped all procedures in the implementation of the decision establishing the Agency – the National Assembly has set up an agency. The Slovenian government cannot do this. This is written in the material and this is what gives us, the National Assembly, a negative omen. Another time. We left it all exactly the way it is. We've left all the real estate in all the ministries. They will be administrators, the guardian will be one ministry, which I think is completely wrong if I say very simply. And the third reason is that even the smallest security guard can't be accepted, is to try to prevent what none of us want from happening. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, against this, against the way, I will protest against the way the Slovenian government respects, respects and works with us in Parliament. If it wasn't for Meh, I'd tell you how he works with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u274	Thank you. Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u275	Your Honor! As I have repeatedly warned at this assembly, the procedure or, above all, the procedure is the mother of democracy. I am still shaken by the ease with which democracy was trampled today in the National Assembly. I did not take the floor by explaining my voice, because I think my colleagues told me everything before me, especially my colleague Jakič. But the fact that you were not allowed to make decisions today, or the opportunity to hear people who were having difficulty speaking themselves, was unprecedented. The practice continues with this law, so I will not support this law. In this case, exactly what is a constructive and positive role of civil society has proved to be. We all have so many words together, such as corruption, we need to eradicate it, we corrupt those corrupt ones, we need to prevent such things from happening in the future and so on. These are the real tools to prevent corruption in the future. She answered at the right time, civil society and warned of certain anomalies. You, the well-respected coalition, have pressed again with complete ease "no" to all the amendments who wanted to listen to their opinion. Because in this way this law is invalid in terms of the participation of stakeholders who have to participate in such legislation, I will vote against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u276	And Mr. Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u277	Thank you. Very briefly. I will also vote against it for a simple reason, because the government coalition wants to introduce systematic corruption through this law in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u278	Good. So, we're going to vote on the Lord Mags. Stanko Stepichnik. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u279	Thank you for your word. I'll vote against it. I do not agree that it is necessary to adopt legislation in the interest of the economy, as was last said by the representatives of the Ministry. I do not want to support a law that allows the legal transfer of property through the interests of municipalities to private property. A security guard who had previously been unable to sell transferred property from the congregation for five years is now released. This is said to be an open hunt in agreement with the lobby on a focused property for private interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u280	Thank you. We will vote on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities. Another explanation for the vote, Mr. Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u281	I find it difficult to listen to such explanations of those who prepared congregation budgets or cooperated as municipal councillors. If there will be a transfer of property to the congregation, then you all know that this is not a transfer to private pockets, but if the congregation wants to sell it, it will have to have in its development programs. If she has this in her programmes, then it will be up to the municipal council and everything else, so the whole procedure will have to go through. However, it is likely that some of you are in pain or are afraid that too little of this state property will pass on to a Ljubljana congregation that would probably need hundreds of millions to sell to get out of your own debt.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u282	Thank you. And now the plasma of new explanations has been triggered. Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u283	Look, it's very short notice. It is simply difficult for me to agree to this logic of thinking that when a right touches me personally, and I will not say me, because I am referring to a colleague who spoke before me, my colleague Pukšič, then shouting and shouting in this country is called the media, why public health does not have air conditioning in public hospitals. When it comes to other people's rights in this country, we used to talk about regional information centres that are cancelling. As a result, his colleague said that intervention time was increasing, and people’s lives could be at risk. So it's about other people's rights. That's when this same man pushes no, because he doesn't care. And today, when it comes to deciding again on the rights of one who will, I believe, by this law, if adopted in such a form, make it easier to obtain some wealth, real estate, municipalities, protection in marriage is not, you will press "yes". Members of the government coalition. I strongly object to that. I also strongly object because the opinion of an independent institute in our country, institutions, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption is clear. With this, respected colleagues and colleagues, once again, this is not the only law, you incorporate corruption into Slovenian legislation. I absolutely cannot support this proposal in such a form, so I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u284	Mr. Franz Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u285	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! What I'm listening to right now, I just can't do it anymore. It is simple and simple, because I myself have worked in the local community and I cannot at any rate confirm that corruption, crime and thievery are in the local community itself. That's not true. You know, Mr Pukšič, you made a little mistake earlier, the real estate sale plan must be accepted by every local community. On the basis of the real estate sale plan, public tendering will then take place. This shall be decided by the municipal council. And if one in the local community is corrupt, it can't be 15, 20, 25, 30 and so on. Dear God, speak with a little responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u286	Thank you. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u287	No, dear sir, it's not like that. Now look, we've got an opinion from the anti-corruption commission – most of you decide, say 15, it can't be 15, 20 and so on. Here you are essentially more than 15, 20 and you will confirm this. I myself was a member of the Piran Congregation, and I tell you that there is nothing wrong with the clause that can't be resold or sold for five years. It's a great security guard, because the security system doesn't work. Even when they're guards, he's troublesome. Therefore, it would be good to introduce such an insurance clause so that there is really no overselling. Why do we open up opportunities for excessive corruption, why do we have the Commission to prevent corruption if then this Chamber of Democracy does not respect it and does not respect it? However, if someone is in a hurry, the congregation may grant him a building right and may build a building, whatever it may be. This does not support the economy, we really support individual corruption in individual municipalities where actual connections, relationships and acquaintances dominate. And that's a fact. You'll actually relax and we'll see in a few years, in a few years you'll see where this is going to happen, why do we allow this? I'm absolutely against it, and that's not what we're doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u288	We vote on the bill. 84 Members and Members are present. The vote was 53 to 25. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda – the first consideration of the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Offences. We will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Offences is appropriate for further consideration. We're voting. 85 Members and Members are present. 36 votes against 48. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda – the third consideration of the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments could not be tabled at the assembly meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Explanation of voice. On behalf of the delegation, I presume? Mr. Peter Wilphan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u289	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank all those who have supported this proposal so far and have made it possible for us to come to this conclusion when this proposal can practically become law. I would not say much about the content, because I think that there has been a lot of talk in the debate, I would like to list just a few key arguments why we believe that this proposal is good and suitable for adoption. First time. He received support at first reading here in Parliament, received support from the Committee on Internal Affairs, received support from both police unions. Nor does the Government's opinion deny substantive relevance when it says that theirs and our proposal are substantively identical. Finally, let me add that we still believe that such a law is necessary, that we need it quickly or now, it would be best today and here. There were also talks about some shortcomings. I think we've responded to the majority or everything. I would mention one thing that I heard yesterday, because the ministry representative said that if we accept this proposal today, it will enter into force within 15 days and that this is a very short period of time. Here I have to ask the question, but what in this composition of Parliament we did not first adopt under this government within a very short time frame and then it was established in a much shorter time frame. To conclude, I would like to say something else about the event on the Committee on the Interior. There just before the vote, colleague Jerovšek said, "Peter, look, you've cashed well, whatever that means, this proposal and everything that's been going on around it, but, of course, this is where it's going to end, because it's really going from here on out." Then, in the vote, our proposal received renewed support and thus confirmed not only that it is appropriate, that it is good and necessary, but obviously that it is also very serious. I'd ask you like this. What, though, would be very unserious if it happened in this House today? It will be very unserious if today's proposal is not prepared by the right party, because they are not, I don't know, genuine signatories, because maybe it's not the first to sign, you won't confirm. Therefore, I urge you all once again that this proposal, which has nothing to do with politics, which, as I have already said in the debate, does not divide fans to the left, right and middle, who wants only those who do not belong to sports venues, to exclude from them that, of course, this proposal of ours supports you to make it for the law and thus do something extremely good for all those true Slovenian fans, sports fans and also for Slovenian sport in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u290	Thank you. We are moving to a vote on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Police Act. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 41. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 41.]] I find that the proposal for a law is not adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to Certain Laws in the Field of Food Safety, Veterinary and Plant Protection. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. I will first read the conclusion: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing certain laws in the field of safe food, veterinary and plant protection is appropriate for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u291	Thank you, President. Say hello again to all present! The system of providing safe food in Slovenia works well, so many of us think, as do inspection visits to the European Union, but it is not ideal. It is not ideal because two chains – green and red – have been established and because two ministries are competent, this is the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Food and the Ministry of Health. However, what needs to be said in this law, which could be a typical law, where politics is aligned, policy with expertise and also with employees, was none of this done. There was not even the slightest wish, the slightest attempt to reconcile this law with the opposition. There was no sufficient attempt to ensure that there was insufficient coordination with employees with the Slovenian profession and even after the union's statements. Nor does the law solve one major problem at this time, which is the responsibility of two ministries. That's what the law avoids. And in the fact that the system of safe food will have to be amended in the coming period due to the European Union's expected new directions in one way or another, we propose that the adoption of this law be stopped. If your assessment that, despite all of this, due to the rationalisation that we support, by law come back to Parliament, we propose that you make a reconciliation for both the Slovenian profession and the opposition. If the law is written in such a way that it will take account of both employees and Slovenian professionals, bring together both chains and combine the powers of the Ministry of Health and Agriculture, you will also have our votes. Now you don't have them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u292	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Ficko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u293	We will vote against it in Positive Slovenia. Why? Since the law is not systemic, does not include all the sectors needed, it is inconsistent with the interests of producers and consumers, and as it is, it gives nothing but a legal basis for political recruitment, and our consumer will therefore have no safer food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u294	Thank you. Mr. Roman Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u295	Thank you for your word. Of course, the law has been going on for a long time, under several ministers. It is true that he did not unite all ministries, etc. in this matter, but we have already seen very much opposition to the fact that certain agencies and institutions are joining together in these debates and questions. We have the opposite here, of course, that we should unite. So I don't understand these things. The essence of this law is to further increase the safety of Slovenian consumers in Slovenian food. Therefore, it must also be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u296	Good. We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 30. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the National Assembly and that the draft law will therefore be allocated for consideration by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Special Report on the living conditions of Roma in the South-East Slovenia area. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to the draft report to be carried out on the basis of a review of 24. 9. 2012. We decide on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to the proposal for a recommendation. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats? In your own name? Mag. Majda Potrat and then mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u297	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I propose to Members and Members that they support the amendments tabled, which are also followed by a debate that follows the recommendations of the Council of State, civil associations and realizes what has been done in the debate at the Commission's meeting on petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities, unanimously supported as a step forward from what the existing legislation already covers, where the weaknesses are in reality and where we go beyond where we impose on each other the responsibility to fail to do what we are supposed to do under law. I think that the recommendations in the Special Report of the Ombudsman are so precisely defined that they also clearly indicate the responsibility on which and what, if he does not do as he is charged, follows. I think that this is worth supporting, because it seems to me that it is unacceptable to insist on this very unequal treatment of citizens and citizens in Slovenia. While we are discussing, at the principle level, that fundamental rights are access to drinking water, when we should also exercise this fundamental right and what we should do to realize it, we should remain silent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u298	Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u299	Thank you, President. In Slovenia we have examples of good practice. An example of this is the opening of the Romani museum or museum of Romani culture and history in Murska Sobota. This is the third such museum on the ground and within the European Union. Of course, I invite you to visit him, as only learning about the Roma community leads us to know her better, to fear her less, and to reject her less. A lot of deviations can be seen from the Ombudsman's report. The Ombudsman proposed a number of conclusions which impose on the Slovenian government, as well as on Parliament, which does something to ensure health where it is at risk. Unfortunately, the coalition has turned these conclusions into a form that has nothing to do with it, but above all, they have excused that nothing is done. Therefore, I propose that you accept our amendment and show that the issue of the Roma community will continue in at least those areas where unregulated conditions are also threatening human health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u300	Thank you. We decide on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to the proposal for a recommendation. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. And now we are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Recommendation to the Special Report on the resident situation of Roma in the South-Eastern Slovenia as a whole. We're voting. An explanation for Mrs. Tamara Vont's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u301	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to sum it up in just one sentence. September 2012 But we are discussing whether a person has the right to water. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u302	We vote on the proposal for a report recommendation. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on cooperation in security against natural and other accidents. There are no applications for discussion. The amendments are not possible at the assembly meeting, so we can vote on the bill. The vote is under way. 79 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. This is for the consideration of a proposal for a law with a very long name, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention establishing a European Centre for Medium-term Interim Instructions, a protocol on amendments to the Convention on the establishment of a European Centre for Medium-term Interim Command and an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Centre for Medium-term Interim Command on the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the Convention on the establishment of the European Centre and so on. We vote on the bill. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on cooperation in culture, education and science. We vote on the bill. 79 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the participation in security before natural and other accidents. We vote on the bill. 79 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. Agenda item — Proposal for a act amending the act on the confirmation of the succession of conventions, statutes and other international agreements representing the act establishing international organisations. We are voting on the proposal for a full act. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. Point of the agenda, this is on the eve of a proposal for an amendment to the Protocol Ratification Act amending the Convention on International Railway Traffic of 9. May 1980 (Protocol 1999). We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a bill on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the regulation of military graves. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present, we have all voted in favour. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving to 17. PERIOD OF THE DAY – MANATIAN VOLUNTARY MATTERS. First of all, 17.a Procedural. [[...]] Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u303	At the beginning of the 17th point, Mr President, I am asking you whether you will ensure the legitimate functioning of the National Assembly and will not decide on the proposal to dismiss five members of the Slovenian Radio Television Supervisory Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u304	My answer to this question is that I do not have any business or any other basis for placing items on the agenda that the MVC has addressed at the meeting of the National Assembly. That would be contrary to the Rules of Procedure. I respected the agreement or your desire to ask the Legislative and Legal Service about the legality of the discharge decision. We got that opinion. It was distributed to all of us. Each Member may also, on the basis of this opinion, decide on the basis of which each Member may use as a means of making a decision in accordance with its own judgment. This is all I can say about it, and I could not possibly withdraw this item from the agenda because of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Another procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u305	Thanks again for saying that. Madam President, in the Group of Social Democrats, we disagree with your explanation, and on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats on a procedural basis, I call on you to ensure the legitimate functioning of the National Assembly. And let me also explain to you why we're calling you. At the very beginning of the consideration of this discharge point, we have warned members of the RTV Supervisory Board that this is an illegal procedure. The Coalition in the Mandate-Election Commission, together with the President, did not respect these warnings. The President herself could have decided and requested the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the legality of the procedure in due time, but she did not. In addition, the coalition on this committee decided that we do not need this opinion. So it is now up to you, Mr President, to prevent the illegality of this procedure. You have, I stress, this responsibility and duty to prevent the illegal operation of the National Assembly. With what moral right we can expect individuals and institutions in the National Assembly to respect Slovenia's legal order, if you obviously do not intend to provide it in the National Assembly, you do not intend to provide it as President. Let me tell you that, in the 10th indent of Article 19 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is clear that you are acting as President of the National Assembly in accordance with the Constitution, the law and this Rules of Procedure. What, then, is your task if you discern the illegality of the work of the National Assembly? Certainly not by voicing that you do not have jurisdiction, but it is your job to prevent obvious illegality and not to refer to the decisions of the groups of Members and so on. It is your duty to prevent, it is your duty to prevent the vote on an illegal proposal for a decision and thus to prevent the unlawful dismissal of members of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board. You have a business opportunity to make that decision. In fact, the agenda item of the Mandate-Voluntary is open and the Rules of Procedure allow for the inclusion of points without the vote of the National Assembly. At the same time, also in the 201st Rule of the Rules of Procedure, we are very precisely regulating this procedure and this speaks of your obligation to ensure the procedure in accordance with the Constitution and the laws. On behalf of the Social Democrats, if you do not guarantee the legality of the functioning of the National Assembly, Mr President, whether you do not hope to do so, we call on you to resign from your office as President of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u306	Yes, Mr Weber, I must say that this proposal is very surprising, because you know very well that by withdrawing a point from the agenda, because the Law-Legal Service expresses its position, it would usurp its powers. I can't do this and I won't. Imagine, for example, that a law that I would consider to be contrary to the Constitution would not be included on the agenda of the National Assembly. Then what would you say?Oh, my God! Or if the following amendment, such as an amendment that will be tabled by your Group of Members, would assess that it may be somewhat legally disputed or that it could be unconstitutional and would not be put to the debate and to the vote. It just doesn't work. It doesn't work, and you know it. Any other procedural proposals? At first, he was Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u307	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I hope that you will not report me on the abuse of the rules of procedure, but my procedural proposal is aimed at improving the ratification of international acts. We have just ratified a few of them, and allow me, colleagues and colleagues, to speak here now on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Policy, which has reported in writing to the National Assembly on the ratifications adopted by the Committee on Foreign Policy. I did not see that this would be indicated in the scenario of the session you are currently holding. And in the future, I want this to be mentioned. If not, however, the assembly will report orally on each ratification. It's important international acts. And then, of course, it happens to us that we ratify, say, the big-scale financial stability pact, and the next day, we don't know what we ratified. Thank you very much if you will take this into account and please, indeed, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Policy, take this into account in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u308	It's a deal. Thank you. Mrs. Masha Kociper, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u309	I am procedurally referring to the proposals of my colleague Vebra in the direction he was discussing before me. Indeed, the important issues of our parliamentary system are indeed being raised here. You have just, the President of Parliament, explained why you cannot accept the proposal of the opposition party SD that you are not the one who can decide whether a matter proposed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure is to be placed in a meeting or not. Let me remind you in this regard that this is exactly what you did in the case of Positive Slovenia, which in full accordance with the Rules of Procedure requested that an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly be held. In rejecting this decision, you have relied on the opinion of legal experts who have decided that, in the case of the decisions that have been taken, there could be an abuse of the Rules of Procedure, since the conclusions should be more receptive to interpretation. I ask you as a lawyer what the National Assembly will do in the case, and this is now indicated when the coalition majority will accept the proposed discharge of the members of the Supervisory Council, which is entirely, I think we agree, in contravention of the law, as all eminent lawyers believe. If that's not accepted, then we don't have a problem in this house. However, if such a decision is taken, I wonder what I can do, as a Member who does not consent to the illegal functioning of this Parliament. I don't have a legal remedy. Only illegally freed overseers have a legal remedy. All those who sit here and want to work legally, and in the event of such an illegal decision, unlawful resolution, we have no legal remedy to oppose it. Which means we're keeping our mouths open to those who are making decisions in this country directly in violation of the law. That is why I am joining the calls of my colleagues from the SD and I ask you to respond appropriately and to protect the integrity of this institution that you are running.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u310	Look, one more time. Don't compare the incomparables. In the event of a request for an extraordinary meeting, the Legislative and Legal Service submitted an opinion that this requirement did not meet the business conditions in order to be considered, i.e. procedural conditions, in order to fail to comply. In this case, however, the Legislative and Legal Service gave its opinion on the content of the decision under consideration, and if I asked her if I could or should not put this point on the agenda, she would answer me with confidence. I hope you know these things, and you're a lawyer, just like I am. Things here are crystal clear to me, and believe me, I always work in accordance with the rules of procedure. Always. Because sometimes you feel differently on the left, sometimes you feel differently on the right-hand side, once you're angry at me on the left-hand side, once you're angry with me on the right-hand side. And it's kind of a sign to me that I'm driving pretty well in the National Assembly. And now we will end this debate. I do not accept this procedural proposal and move on [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, because it repeats and doubles. 17.a. agenda item – Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Vice-President and the appointment of a Vice-President of the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. The draft decision was submitted by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. There are no applications for discussion and we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're making a decision. [[advertising from the hall]] Look, I've explained things to you, and I've also told you what we decide, so please be careful. We decide on point 17.a. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 71 votes against 4. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. 17.b. agenda item – Proposal for a decision on the conclusion of the termination of the post of Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission. The Magnificent Messenger. Borut Ambrožič resigned from the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia and therefore, pursuant to Rule 112, 200 and 201 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly is informed of the following decision: As of 6 September 2012, Borut Ambrožić has ceased to be a member of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Due to the termination of his membership in the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia shall cease to serve as Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission. The Member shall cease to function on the date of the meeting of the National Assembly. We vote on the proposal for a decision. Excuse me. It's just a finding. 17.c. agenda item – Proposal for a decision appointing a Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission. The draft decision was tabled by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Ms Maša Kociper as Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. 17 p.m. Agenda item – Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member and the election of a member of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. The proposal for consideration by the National Assembly was submitted by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Mr Jani Möderndorfer to present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u311	This proposal has been ahead of us for the third time. All I can say is that this is a kind of demonstration of non-democracy, which is actually happening for some clear and planned reason. I had a few interviews yesterday with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, with the exception of the SDS Group of Members, and I was twice able to speak with the head of the SLS Group. And the rest of them. I have tried to find reasons why for the third time we have simply failed to elect an alternate member of the commission, which is by procedure, is the Commission, which is directly under control and is leading it and has a majority of the opposition with a single purpose to control what the coalition is actually doing and has every opportunity and power in this country. Of course, this is not the case, for nothing happens in this national council. And I got different answers why there wasn't actually a quorum. Exceptionally, only New Slovenia, which has always voted in favour of our proposal, has played its part here, and all other coalition parties, of course, have been agreed, either because they do not like the Member, or because they are afraid that we will not do our job well. What is most horrifying is that if we do not do it again today, the fact that we have come into some strange situation when the coalition determines what the opposition will do within the commission, where the opposition should have a majority by not being able to do any control. Let me draw your attention to the very important point, which is that this Commission has been trying for some time to come up with a very important report that this coalition is making impossible to come up with this report, which the Government should have put on this committee a long time ago. And of course it is a kind of precedent and of course the introduction of a new practice, parliamentary practice, that the coalition can decide what the opposition will do in the National Assembly. I agree that it is always democratic for a coalition to have a majority and decide either on legislation or on the composition of working bodies, in short, what is possible in the framework of an agreement also at the College of the President of the National Assembly. However, I simply do not understand this National Assembly, this coalition, which has simply taken the right to take the new lead and even decide on the composition of the Information Services Supervisory Commission. I warn you, the President of the National Assembly, who is taking part in this exercise, you spoke a little earlier about how you defend yourselves left and right, so that you simply do not warn that you have crossed all borders within the coalition in the National Assembly. You have simply come so far as not to let Positive Slovenia replace its member with its member within a commission which has a very important task, considering that the President of this Commission is currently in hospital, so of course he will not be able to lead this commission for a while. So you have everything perfectly in your hands to decide whether to let the National Assembly work democratically, is said to be able to carry out its tasks, or whether you will come to work on this point, that there are Members of the National Assembly who are first-class and second-class Members. And more importantly, whether or not the Government will submit a report to this committee. On purpose, I do not answer certain questions, but if I see that your result is very clear, we will take another step forward. I am really warning you, all Members and Members of Parliament, who do well to make a very skilled manoeuvre, and this is that you will finally decide in the National Assembly. If you're against it, say you're against it. Very clear. So at least we'll know that we just can't put this commission together anymore and can't work anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u312	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to resolve a member of Mr Roman Jakič's intelligence and security services in the Commission and to elect a mag as a member. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. It is known that, under Article 10 of the Law on Parliamentary Control of Intelligence and Security Services, such a decision is taken by an absolute majority, i.e. by a majority of all Members and Members, at least 46 votes. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, for 44, for 3. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] I find that the Assembly of the Delegated Decision did not accept because we needed an absolute majority. Procedurally, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u313	President of the National Assembly! What will you do to enable us to do legally in the National Assembly? Now you must act. You have to perform or find out that this is legal or that this is not legal. Or, I don't know, maybe a third story. President of the National Assembly, your role here is very important. You will have to speak out loud about how you plan to run the National Assembly, where we cannot put together and replace a member within the Intelligence Supervisory Commission. I hope you don't care if we're working legally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u314	Probably don't expect me, I don't know if I'm going to bend my hands to my fellow Members and my fellow Members on how to vote. Do you expect me to influence them and force them to vote? Probably not. Today I think you have a little too much expectations for me, and you ask me to do a lot of things that I can't do, not by law or by procedure. You know that, too. This was not exactly a procedural proposal either, Mr Möderndorfer. 17.d – Proposal for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. The proposal was tabled by the Government. It was dealt with by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as a parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly and submitted a proposal for conclusions. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u315	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! On 23 August 2012, the Government submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the appointment of Zlata Krašovec and Mag. Martin Mlakar in the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. Cities in the Supervisory Board were unoccupied because the Pahor government failed to fully implement its staffing proposals in the previous term. Interestingly, the opposition and others did not protest at this time because the government did not propose new members quickly enough to the Slovenian Press Agency Supervisory Board. The fact that the STA Supervisory Council did not operate in the full component did not disturb the opposition and no one called on the Government to act or to make nominations. It was all quiet. Now that we have before us the proposal for the completion of the STA Supervisory Board, we hear that the Government wants to submit itself to the STA and in some others the media. On the Mandate-Election Commission, it was mainly after the proposed candidate, according to Zlata Krašovec, in particular members of both opposition parties, that they wanted to fully discredit the government proposal for a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency by also instilling that she was a permanent associate of Tednika Democracy, which was supposed to be in conflict of interest. This claim was denied by Zlata Krašovec, some media reported. With a special letter received by Members just prior to the meeting of the commission of mandate, which contained some similar claims, such as those made against Zlata Krašovec's appointment on the Commission's mandate as members of the opposition, the Union of Journalists of Slovenia – SNS also addressed us. Last year, when we had a proposal from Pahor's Government to appoint a columnist of the Sunday Diary and director of Ninamedia Nikola Damjanić for the same place in the Slovenian Press Agency Supervisory Board, for which Zlata Krašovec is now proposed, the Union of Journalists of Slovenia did not detect anything, it did not note any conflict, no dispute and we did not receive any letter from the Slovenian Press Union. So what about such a letter from the Slovenian Press Union? From it it can be found that the Union of Journalists of Slovenia has double criteria to members of its press encounter. For some, despite the apparent conflict, they have no position and are wisely silent, while for others they draw from five veines the supposed arguments that give the impression of alleged dispute and opposition. Sadly, many of these uncritical attitudes advocate and repetitively repeat themselves. In our parliamentary group, we will support both candidates for the Supervisory Council of the Slovenian Press Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u316	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Janko Weber
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u317	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! Also when appointing members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency, we meet with an illegal procedure. In fact, from the letter we received, I think that everyone in the National Assembly, but certainly at least the members and members of the Management and Electoral Commission, by the Slovenian Press Union, is very clear that Mrs Krašovec does not meet the conditions for her being appointed to the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. They also very clearly justify why such appointment is contrary to the provisions of the Slovenian Press Agency Act, Article 12 of this Act, which states that a person who is a member of a management, management, control, or is in a working relationship or contractually cooperating with undertakings providing the same or similar services as the Slovenian Press Agency cannot be appointed to the Supervisory Board because of the possibility of conflict of interest. It is also provided in the same Article that a member of the Supervisory Board cannot be a person who is a member or an employee of the body responsible for the supervision of media regulations. So it is a fact, although she later denied that she was not supposed to be a correspondent of Democracy, she is certainly still involved in cooperation with the Reporter magazine. In addition, she is Vice-President of the Management Board of the Housing Organization, i.e. the Association of Journalists and Publishers of Slovenia. This housing organisation is, last but not least, the one that monitors and supervises the functioning of the Agency and certainly cannot be one person who creates and is supposed to ensure editorial independence, at the same time those who exercise control in another body. So it is once again the narrow political interest of the largest ruling party, in this case the SDS, who obviously wants to have an important influence in the public media as well. And the Slovenian Press Agency is certainly one of the most important public media, from which we expect to report objectively and to inform the public in a way that can truly create a realistic picture of what is happening both in the political field and in the other areas that they publish and process in their scope of action. So it is the political submission of the Slovenian Press Agency and the impact of policy on public media is, of course, unacceptable, both in our legal order and in the international legal order. Therefore, we cannot support this appointment in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u318	On behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u319	The government proposed Zlatko Krašovec as a media expert as a member of the STA. However, the government has chosen among several candidates, which is a completely legitimate and legal right. For example, Dr. Neda Pagon was dismissed as a media expert. Of course, the government never mentioned that name in public. We only found out about him when she contacted the parliamentary groups with a single request, which explained the outcome of the call for representatives of the founder in the Slovenian Press Agency's Supervisory Board. Mrs Pagon took place on 29. 6. Within the prescribed time limit, it announced to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia a call for a representative of the founder in the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency and attached all the annexes and supporting documents required. To this day, however, no reply was received. From a note in the media after the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 23. 8. In 2012, she noted that she had not been selected. In Positive Slovenia, we will not deal with the rules of communication and the current manners of this government because it proves that it does not respect them every day. However, we will also note that in the case of Dr Neda Pagon, it is also going to exclude those who think otherwise or "ours". As the cabinet of the Prime Minister of the Government at the Russian Chapel challenged the performance of academic Jožet Pirjevac, some members of the Slovenian Society started by collecting signatures under the petition, in which they warned: "This year it happened that the executive authority is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the cabinet of its president, according to media reports, has seriously intervened in the autonomy of society and has taken action to regulate the civil society life of its citizens in an unacceptable way. This is worrying and afraid that such behaviour goes beyond the oneness of Sunday’s income. Therefore, we express deep dissatisfaction and disagreement with governmental interference in civil society, which also shows an unreasonable underestimation of the historical significance, perseverance and impact of social life on Slovenian." The petitioner was Neta Pagon, who is known as editor, publicist, translator and doctor of sociology of culture and is one of Slovenia's most visible intellectuals. For a long year, she was editor of Studio Humanitatis. As far as Mrs Zlatka Krašovec is concerned, it is worth noting the comments of the press union claiming that the proposed candidacy is illegal or contrary to the provisions of the STA Act, the Official Gazette, because of the possible conflict of interest between the function of a member of the Supervisory Board and the exercise of the activities of any member of the Supervisory Board, they propose to withdraw and select a candidate or candidate who would meet the legal conditions. Ms Zlatka Krašovec, a member of the Supervisory Board of State, was editor of the Kmecka Vote from 2003 to 2008, the responsible editor of the Koper Studio Radio Ognjište, and as a journalist, she is a permanent co-worker and commentator of Democracy and Magazine Reporter. Since June 2009, she has also been a member and president of the board of directors of the Association of Journalists of Slovenia. Following the seventh indent of Article 12(7) of the Act on STA, a member of the Agency’s Supervisory Board may not be a member of a management and control body or is in a working relationship or contractually cooperating with undertakings providing the same or similar services as the STA, which could, of course, result in a conflict of interest. The fourth indent of that Article also provides that a member of the STA Supervisory Board may not be a member of or an employee of the authority responsible for the control of media regulations. A member of the Supervisory Board must be independent and independent in his work by virtue of legal provisions. The Agency shall also be responsible for ensuring and exercising editorial independence. It also agrees on an agreement on editorial independence, which establishes a procedure for resolving disagreements between the Director, the Supervisory Board and the Management Board, in a particular case, a member of the STA Supervisory Board shall also decide on a proposal by the Management Board to appoint a responsible editor. There is no doubt, therefore, that the legislator’s intention was to prevent only the possibility of conflict interests between the work of the supervisor and his work, as was the case with the candidate Zlatka Krašovec. Therefore, we will not support this proposal in Positive Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u320	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. He's got the word "magic" first. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u321	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I have to say, I wish I didn't have to say what I'm about to say. I regret that you have done so immediately after you have said how right you are. You didn't give me your word when I asked for a procedural proposal, and you treated me discriminatoryly. Because you've decided in advance what I'm going to talk about without you knowing what I'm going to do. By the Rules of Procedure, you should give me your word. I regret this particularly because you are the President of the National Assembly, because you are responsible for the legality and equal treatment of all. And secondly, I regret that you are the president of a party called the Civil Gazette. And you would be obliged to follow and respect the rights of citizens and citizens according to this party's programme and following the statement you have written down in your programming document. You did not respect my parliamentary rights, not my civil rights. I regret that you do so, and unfortunately I cannot agree with you that the quality of your work depends on if everyone is dissatisfied with you. The quality of your work would be indicated if those who are right and in accordance with the rules of procedure were satisfied with what you should do in accordance with the rules of procedure. What I am going to say in this debate below is that I do not understand the Government's human resources policy and not the National Assembly. Because whenever we decide about things related to the media, we move into very, very "out of the bile" legislation. I'm upset, and I can't make an adjective at this point. It's simply that you stretch or work like you do on a water bed, you adapt to things. When we discussed the members of the RTV Programme Council, you excluded, the professional services and the Mandate-Electorial Commission, from the consideration of the proposals that came from the public institution, the SAZU said that the President had eliminated the proposal because that body had not been registered in the relevant register, which is applicable to civil associations, to societies and so on. So now we're dealing with something if I paraphrase you, Mr President, it's out of my hands. Because the Union of Journalists of Slovenia has sent us a letter in which it reminds us that the conditions for the appointment of one of the candidates for the Supervisory Council of the State of Slovenia are not met, I am left to believe that we are all left to decide whether or not it is. Whether it's by law or not is not by law, it's not important at all, and that's something so optional. We take into account the fact that we just want to follow through. This article of the law, which explained why one of the candidates could not be a member of the Supervisory Board, had already been told twice, so I will not quote him, but I will react to another. The talk was that not two members of the Governing Council were appointed, but you know, the problem is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u322	May I have your attention, fellows?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u323	I don't need it. If there's a kind of attention like yours, I live quietly without it. Article 13 of the Act on STA states in paragraph 5 that the Supervisory Board shall be constituted and shall decide in force when at least three members are appointed under this Act. The Supervisory Board had the appropriate number of members, it was able to decide. Why, then, did the government ever before or in any way not appoint — and what should be remembered by the National Assembly, that we had early elections, and that some things happened, and God forbid that the government appoint members of the Governing Council when it has been said so that it has limited powers? As a picnic, however, let me mention only that this law also defines the terms of the resolution and speaks of the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u324	I'm here trying to give you some attention, fellow Potter, and you're so angry with me. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u325	I'll be very brief. In view of what is being adopted in the National Assembly and how content is being accepted, it is no wonder that the government coalition must take care of the media, setting up people who will report in some way as the coalition wishes. Therefore, it is no wonder that today we will get two who are very close to the government coalition in the STA, where the editorial policy of the STA can be regulated in a way that will appeal to the government coalition. In a few minutes, we'll be able to clear up the RTV monitors, and also there, in RTV, you'll be able to submit, I'll say, the press, the media, so they can report to you. So I'll go against it. And that, Mr. Jože Tanko, we've got this letter from the press unions, and I think it's the right address to draw from them and Jože, I'm mad, and you're not listening. [[...]] Mainly, I will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u326	Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In fact, I am surprised that opposition parties oppose or reject the support of Mrs Zlata Krašovec because I am following her publicly, and I must say that she is always taking a very transparent, principled view of how things should be viewed in some society. When I listened to some, it seems to me that if we had more influence and better results in the elections, we would be in a position of government to perhaps reintroduce Berufsverbot – a ban on the profession. This is a rather outrageous exclusion of people on the grounds that they are principled. However, I must say this, because Mrs Neda Pagon was also mentioned as a candidate in the Government earlier in her explanation, and there was a whole process of describing the petition in connection with the event at the Russian Chapel. However, given what has been happening with the propaganda on this and the literally conspiratory conduct there, Mrs Pagon would in fact be an inappropriate candidate if the Government proposed it, because there was so much lies there. It has been claimed in the media that every year there is another academic, I go at least ten years each year to this event and it is an eccentric lie. RTV reported that they had not provided the translator with Russian, although the Prime Minister refused to listen at all, she went somewhere for the chapel during his speech, which was once again an ecclatic lie. And it is a very rule and I also have information from the Russian side that the Russian side was extremely pleased that the Prime Minister of the Government accepted the invitation to be an honourable president and speaker. And in such a case, there is no need for a speaker who is supposed to strike after the President of the Government, and in the evening, some media, we know which, in particular, cited his attacks, probably against the President of the Government, especially since it was Dr. Jožet Pirjevac, who cannot teach us patriotism. Since his family and his conduct were not in principle, it provided for Italy in 1947, when their heads were no longer saved, and changed their surname even after the war when it was no longer necessary. And I make it very clear that those of us cannot teach us patriotism, which has been built up for another country. They didn't emigrate his parents, which he misquote. And also publishing articles under Giuseppe Pierazzi and then changing also in Cobiss, all the documents, is a bunch of irregularities and for such there was such a strong storm in the media, in an organized way. The event at the Russian Chapel was at an extremely high level, at the highest level, and was very well carried out, as it was every year. But this year, when the Prime Minister performed, they wanted him to be shadowed with provocations, apparently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u328	The next is Mr Ivan Grill, followed by Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u329	Thank you very much. I must say that I am not surprised that the opposition is so easily discredited by the people proposed for responsible jobs or functions, despite the fact that it has all the necessary professional references to do so. Even now, this lady, whom you are trying to label politically here, is being discredited only on the basis of her professional participation in democracy or in the Reporter. This means that anyone who writes an article that one of these weeks wants to publish is already politically labelled as either a member or a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party or this government or this coalition. This is happening too often or by the opposition every day, with great ease. I don't think that leads anywhere. I will be happy to support both proposals and I do not believe that there is any conflict of interest here, as also mentioned in the letter from the union. These may be charges that are likely due to some of the uncles in the background. I don't mean Mr Brulco and Mr Meh, but here are those who are trying to create a fama in this way in public, that with all the human resources that this government and this coalition are also accepting here, they are trying to subordinate the media and also all the other institutions that the country is carrying out. I do not agree with this, and I believe that both of you who will receive support from the STA Supervisory Council will perform their functions professionally, professionally and above all politically impartially. So I will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u330	Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u331	Thank you for your word. I will also support the two proposed candidates. As has already been said at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, we have received the Government's material, in which it said that four applications have arrived, three have been complete, of which one has not met all the conditions. And the government decided on two candidates and proposed them. We have indeed received a letter from the Union of Journalists of Slovenia, which I do not know since when is he who speaks, what is lawful and what is not lawful in this country, as some of the predecessors have said, stating wrong information. I have already said at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission that Mrs Zlata Krašovec is a retired woman and is not in any employment as mentioned here. Besides, she said days ago she wasn't a commentator for democracy. If this is the whole problem for some in writing in this country in Democracy, it probably shouldn't be such a problem. If the press union doesn't even know it, but even with the wrong information, it operates in a letter that some of you consider to be dry gold, I ask myself the same question, as we said at the meeting of the Commission on Elections, that we didn't get such a letter back then for Mr. Damjanić, even though we know that he still writes columns for the Sunday Diary today, but, of course, they are more friendly to today's opposition or to the then government and, of course, you didn't pay such attention to it, and obviously not to the press union. I think it's right that the STA overseers are playing their part to get to know the press. The other candidate is a lawyer, because this is also one of the conditions that the candidate must fulfil, so I assess that both candidates are appropriate and, of course, I will support them.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u332	Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u333	Thank you for your word. To understand your actions, I will read to you how you acted as the SDS Group at the time of the adoption of the Slovenian Press Agency Act. The law that we have submitted for consideration, then, of course, as the current government for which Social Democracy was responsible, it has been stated that there should also be certain competences if you want to become a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency, namely, those representatives must be experts in the economic, legal and media fields and experts in the field of information technology. Your position was to remove this from the law. This proves that your only criterion is political belonging. So, you don't care about the expertise in a particular field, which, say, the journalist has to master, that he can also write about this area, whether it's economic, legal or otherwise, you just don't care. You have proved this through the amendment you tabled under Article 12 of this Act. So the only criterion you recognize is political belonging, and that's "you." But the law does not allow you to do that, because this law still states that if there is a conflict of interest, you are acting contrary to the law. And I would really like to hear from you why you are not governed by laws, why you are not subject to the Constitution and what the rule of law is for you. And especially if we are talking about democracy, the most important thing for democracy is the process. If we don't respect the procedure, then there's no democracy. So, in your opinion, we do not live in democracy, but in an authoritarian country where rules are in place, as the monarch recalled at some point when he wished for some action. And even to avoid being confronted with who is a better expert, for example, and who is not from the economic, legal and media sphere, we have proposed in the Slovenian Press Agency Act that two thirds of the votes of Members and Members present should be provided for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board. Against this you were explicit, and that we then brought the law through the procedure at all, we also agreed and complied with your demands that there should be a sufficient majority of Members and Members who decide on this appointment. Look, all that is happening in Parliament is, of course, directly reflected in these nomination processes when you have the opportunity to lead the country. So the legal order doesn't matter to you, what matters is what you think is good for you. But once again, I do not know why laws do not apply to you, I do not know why the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia would not apply to you. I really don't get it, and I'd like an answer to that. And this example of the appointment of Krašovčeva only further substantiates your inappropriate conduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u334	And Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u335	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! Maybe we should just move a year ago. On 19 October 2010, at the time the Pahorje government had no mandate, the same government proposed four members to the National Assembly for Election to the Supervisory Council of the Slovenian Press Agency. Three members received support and one of these members, Mr Damjanić, did not receive sufficient support. At that time, I proposed, given that there were elections a few days later and that we were just ahead of the electoral campaign, that we should not vote on this proposal in the Mandate-Election Commission, and not even in the National Assembly, but that the coalition then rejected this proposal. That was rejected, gentlemen. Mr Damjanić – For Mr Damjanić, the same Law on the Slovenian Press Agency found and said that there was a conflict of interest, see the magnetogram of the meeting, the Mandate-Electorial Commission or the National Assembly. He's the director of Ninamedie and he's been the columnist of the Sunday Diary all along. Under the same conditions, you are all in the Group of Social Democrats, and you were then the largest party to vote for Mr Damjanić. None of the members of the Social Democrats have said one word, they have spoken against Mr Damjanic. That is why it bothers me, in fact, that any of the Social Democrats or former Social Democrats are discussing that we are violating the law, breaking the standards, violating the Constitution, etc. Our proposal is different as far as Zlata Krašovec as you were about Nikola Damjanić. Mr Pahor was the proposer, signed, adopted the decision, had few ministers back then and proposed this without a problem. If we move on now. We are doing a lot of work here on who can even propose to anyone in the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. By the law you created, it's the government. The government formed a call, and of those candidates who came and proposed something or two to the election. This is not about negotiating with the Government with the position, either with Positive Slovenia or with SD, who is suitable and who should be proposed, but about its choice. It is up to us to decide on this proposal. I do not see any contentious issues in this proposal, not with the candidate and not with the candidate, so I will also support the Government's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u336	I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposed decisions. In doing so, I inform you that, on the basis of the third paragraph of Article 13 of the Slovenian Press Agency Act, a decision will be adopted if the absolute majority votes for it, i.e. at least 46 Members and Members. On the basis of Article 13, paragraph 4, of this Act, the National Assembly shall vote on each candidate individually. First, I put to the vote a proposal for a decision appointing Mrs Zlata Krašovec as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. We're voting. Explanation of the vote by Ms Maša Kociper on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u337	Your Honor! I will vote against this proposal. The debate on the Mandate-Election Commission was indeed such, very active, but it was not – and here I cannot agree with Mr Tank – incorrect to the proposed candidate. In most cases, the opposition raised the very problem of conflict of interest. If I read the provisions of the laws once again: "It is problematic if the proposed person is in a contractual relationship with companies carrying out the same or similar tasks as the STA." This lady, Mrs Zlata Krašovec, wrote in her application to this post or to this function that she is contractually cooperating with the Democracy and Reporter. That's what she wrote in her role. This was followed by opposition in its proposals. I would like to point out in particular that it is not true that this person would be discredited in any way. It is true that we also went to a substantive debate on whether candidates for the Supervisory Councils need to respect some higher standards, but this is an independent body. At that time, in Positive Slovenia, we only pointed out that we regret the missed opportunity for Ms Neda Pagon, a candidate of DeSUS, to receive this support from the Government and be voted without any problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u338	We will vote on the proposal for a decision to call Mrs Zlata Krašovec a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 31. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 31.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am also putting to the vote a proposal for a decision on the appointment of mags. Martin Mlakar as a member of the STA Supervisory Board. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 55 votes in favour, 23 votes in favour. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. 17.e – Proposal to appoint members of the Management Board of the Prešeren Fund. The proposal was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. It was examined by the Commission’s mandate-holders, who also made written reports to the Council and submitted a proposal for a decision. I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Prešeren Fund. They are appointed members of the Management Board: Dr. Janez Bogataj, Mag. Lucky Dragan, Dr. Kajetan Gantar, Mr. Jože Horvat, Mr. Slavko Hren, Dr. Andrej Inkret, Dr. Janko Kos, Dr. Lado Kralj, Dr. Jože Kušar, Mr. Lojze Lebič, Mrs. Katja Pegan, Mrs. Alenka Puhar, Mr. Hugo Šekoranja, Mr. Rudi Spainzel and Dr. Jože Trontel. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. 17.f – Proposal for a decision appointing the President of the State Audit Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The panellists are not or have checked out, no one has been reported, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision to appoint Mr Borut Stinky as President of the State Audit Commission. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 19. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 19.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the State Election Commission. The proposal was submitted by the MVK for consideration. The panellists are no longer present, they have checked out. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Mr Andrej Benkovic as a member of the National Election Commission. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present and 57 votes against 5. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. 17.h – Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the MVK to the National Assembly for its consideration. The panellists are no longer present. And I put to the vote a proposal for a decision appointing Mr Milan Bericic as a member of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 57 votes against 20. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 20.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. 17.i – Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of five members of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Matjaž Han has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u339	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear fellows! While we are pleased in the Group of Social Democrats that the President of the National Assembly has fulfilled our expectations of the request that we have addressed to him after the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, before deciding on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of five members of the RTV Supervisory Board, he has obtained the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the legality of the proposal for a decision. In terms of compliance with the Constitution and the rule of law in the Republic of Slovenia, the Legislative and Legal Service has given a position which attaches to our comments at the meeting of the Mandate-Voluntary Commission, which was based on the legal opinion of the Institute of Public Administration. The legislative and legal service thus stated that the early termination of the mandate of the members of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia is permissible only within the framework of legal predetermined reasons for the termination of the mandate. This is only possible against the will of a member of the Supervisory Board if he no longer fulfils the conditions for appointment or election to that function. It is therefore clear from the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that the discharge is illegal for any other reason. In view of this view of the vote, I do not think there should be a vote today. The current moves of the ruling coalition, particularly in relation to the media, show that there are no obstacles to the political destruction of free media space, nor are there any legal or otherwise. The words of the coalition agreement that politics will not interfere with the work of the media, editors and journalists, and that the limits of free journalism can only be law and professional ethics, only as an unfortunate moment in the weakness of the writer of the coalition contract. Waste in the media sphere, the first victim of which is public broadcasting, the central institution of special cultural national importance, is clearly one of the most important priorities of the coalition agreement entitled the Treaty on Slovenia. The violation of constitutional rights to express and communicate in some ways and the ever-new forecasts of the ruling coalition are already beyond the known Hungarian scenario. How such activities will help us to get out of the crisis, we can only think. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are increasingly concerned about the repeated pattern of action of the ruling coalition. For this one takes into account political discretion, which she will take into account and which she will interpret in her own way. And that, in a way, for my understanding, also lowers the level of democracy. The proposal for a decision to dismiss five members of the Radio Television Supervisory Board of Slovenia is not included in a democratic country that respects basic constitutional, legal and ethical standards on the agenda of Parliament. In the Group of Social Democrats, we therefore remind the President of the National Assembly in particular that, as a representative of the National Assembly, as the first of the same, he will have to defend the constitutionality and legality of the decisions taken in him. In the event that the coalition that belongs to it votes on the adoption of an illegal decision, the President of the National Assembly must also accept his part of the responsibility. The responsibility of allowing the President to decide on an illegal decision goes far beyond the framework of how he will vote personally. Of course, the Group of Social Democrats will not support this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u340	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u341	Today's vote on the discharge of members of the Radio Television Supervisory Board is on the agenda for the adoption of a politically verifiable decision by the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth, adopted by some Members and Members of the coalition, and it is found that the report of the Supervisory Committee is incomplete and misleading. And this is the same supervisory board that has had a negative opinion from the Court of Auditors on the operation of RTV for 2009 and 2010, previous management, I warn, in many cases, which they have been alerting since they were appointed in 2010, gave a stop to development funds, harmful employment contracts and discounts for advertising. However, the legal opinion delivered by the Institute of Public Administration on the possibilities for the discharge of members of the Supervisory Board of Radio Television of Slovenia shows that the discharge of members is illegal. That is why we have already proposed at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission that these points should not be placed on the agenda until we have an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service. Yesterday we also received this opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which follows that the reasons given in the explanation of the decision adopted by the Committee cannot be classified as reasons for the termination of the term of office of members of the Supervisory Board by the Act on Radiotelevision of Slovenia. The conclusions of the opinion also stated that the early termination of the mandate of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Republic of Slovenia was permissible only within the framework of legal predetermined, constitutionally permissible grounds for termination of the mandate and that the proposal for a decision was not in line with their assessment. The discharge of the members of the Supervisory Board would be possible only upon the adoption of the amendment of the Law on RTV Slovenia, which would establish the discharge procedures. And if this coalition respected the existing law on RTV, it would allow for both the autonomy of operation and the funding that would enable them to carry out the public service. And you're doing the opposite. Therefore, Members and Members of the Positive Slovenia Group do not intend to participate in this media massacre, which this coalition is already doing with this government in almost all media areas. This, of course, also deliberately discredits and politically pressures one of the autonomous broadcasters with the aim of political transmission of public television. We will not support this in Positive Slovenia. Unfortunately, we will still be looking at the main premiere today, if we have already seen the Mandate-Election Commission before the premiere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u342	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u343	Thank you so much for saying that. The business of the Public Institute of Radiotelevision of Slovenia is not exemplary. In its 2010 audit, the Court of Auditors found that EUR 1.7 million was overpaid to employees, that more than EUR 11.7 million had been overpaid, contrary to the USD Act, and that this same RTV recognised advertisers for more than EUR 8.7 million in discounts in breach of the RTV Act's decisions during the same period. It is therefore a total of €21 million of errors, or about a fifth of the budget of the Slovenian Public Institute of Radio Television. The Supervisory Board has also approved several programme development projects where measurable objectives have not been substantiated, some have not even been achieved. The authorised auditor of RTV, ABC’s audit house, which revised the RTV annual report, also notes that programming projects do not produce the desired results of ratings and that staff did not contribute to the rejuvenation of staff and that the money was partly spent on employer’s legal obligations, i.e. unintended. I'm talking about development money. I also note from the RTV Slovenia Programme Council that the management of the institution and the Supervisory Board in the implementation of specific projects did not follow the criteria for using Eutelsat funds. Although RTV Slovenia achieved some small surplus in 2011, it is solely due to the way development funds are evaluated. The RTV Supervisory Board did not act because of its poor and inconsistent business laws, as found by the Court of Auditors, the RTV Programme Council, the ABC Audit House, but made it possible to do so this year. The Education Committee, which examined the RTV Supervisory Board Report on 10 April, found that the 2011 report of the Supervisory Board was incomplete and misleading and suggested that the members of the Supervisory Board should be dismissed. In cases where such different authorities and institutions find that RTV monitors are poorly operated, the supervisors should withdraw themselves. Since they have not done so, it is the duty of the National Assembly to take action to resolve and put in place new supervisors who will ensure the work of the public institution in accordance with the laws. We will not defend those who do bad things and make a similar mistake and make a similar mistake, as Dusan Kumra said they did in the SD in the previous term, when those two who should have given up a long time ago defended almost the last drop of blood. This is not a political manifestation, as it is trying to demonstrate, but a responsible action for all those who have an electric counter and who have to pay RTV's subscription to the recipient, that is, RTV, spending inadvertently on projects that are not effective, for projects that are not rational and unnecessary and for viewers and for audiences that do not bring sufficient or almost no satisfaction. Finally, the measure of this discontent is also the decline in the ratings of key shows, such as day-to-day and informative ones. We will support the resolution in the Group because we want the RTV budget and other acts for the new business year to be prepared to follow the findings and guidance of the Court of Auditors, the RTV Programme Council and the auditors. However, we expect the appointment process to be as short as possible, as it is possible to implement the replacement until the next meeting, so that this resolution of any disturbance in the operation of RTV will not constitute. We will support the proposal for a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u344	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. He's got the word "magic" first. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u345	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. That sounded like an ominous announcement by a sudden court. But it's a very good script because it lacked essentiality. In fact, both the Court of Auditors’ audit and the findings on business errors relate in most cases to the time when the Supervisory Board acted in a different composition and to the time when RTV house was run by another team. But this was lost from the coalition's opinion, the consolidated coalition. Because this is irrelevant information that the advertising discounts have been directed by someone else, who is now appointed to another administrative mechanism in the new period of the term of office of Ivan Janša. But that's just an introduction to what I'm about to say. The fact is that the author of the RTV Act, which is now the chairman of the committee after the accident, is sitting in front of me there because he is also the co-author of this illegal operation. For he himself well knows that the existing law on RTV does not provide for the discharge that the National Assembly should require, because the National Assembly is only familiar with the report of the Supervisory Board. However, it is an interesting detail in this report, which is so distasteful that it indicates the inadequate functioning of the Supervisory Board. Two working bodies decide on the report or are better informed of it, namely, the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth, which adopted that decision which gave rise to the discharge, and the Commission on Public Finance Control. The Commission has not identified irregularities in the functioning of the Supervisory Board for the supervision of public finances. She didn't figure it out. I'd like to pay particular attention to that. She did not have any such extravagant request after the dismissal or withdrawal of the members of the Supervisory Board. No, no, no. Only that body, that working body in which the consolidated coalition has the majority and it was able to vote. And now it's interesting. This invalid and, in fact, a decision that the chairman of the committee should not even put to the vote because the president of the working body is responsible for safeguarding legality. So we should not vote on such a decision. We have voted this decision or coalition, and now this decision is the basis for the Government to carry out all further procedures. And then we get the president of the National Assembly, who also says that he has no leverage to prevent all this from happening. What kind of country do we live in? What's that? When something is found to be illegal when a legal opinion on this is stated to be illegal, but those who decide on it, who have the right to decide under the rules of procedure, do not decide and leave the free will of Members and Members, which is referred to as a vote by conscience in Parliament. Well, I've already heard the announcement of how this conscience will command the greatest coalition party to vote. What hope, then, does man have that someone who works legally within his working body, who also requires corrective measures, will need to improve business, but has decided that they should be suspended in order to further weaken the position of the public service, continues with the reduction of the RTV contribution, and where will this end? Yeah, where? That Telekom will have a state television that will service the news and we will land at the level of the yellow novelty. Thanks for that. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u346	Replica, mag. Branko Grimes. [[advertising from the hall]] Replica means a reaction to the debate, to the debate of someone else and because of the mag. Grims really didn't have a discussion, in which case the replica is not possible. [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, no. Replica is the answer to a misunderstanding of someone's discussion. Let's move on. Mr. Mirko Brulc. After him, Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u347	Your Honor! Let us work together, then, and let us enjoy such a day. I'll use the vocabulary of my colleague Jerovska. The government is conducting a genuine diversionary attack on RTV Slovenia. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah. From the previous term. Look, it's not funny. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service clearly states that the proposal for a decision does not comply with the applicable legislation. We could stop this discussion today and go home. But that's true, what I said about starting on RTV proves first the ban on authorizing contracts. Secondly, the new Digital Broadcasting Act takes RTV Slovenia 1.2m euros or causes losses. The decision to reduce RTV contributes minus EUR 9 million 200 000. Fourthly, the News of the Media Law is 200 thousand less, it is said, a free broadcast of programmes of particular importance. Fifth, cleaning up the programming world. You did. Sixthly, political intervention in the editorial department, Studio City is not good, the foreign Slovenians from Italy cannot work for our television because it is not possible to conclude contracts. For the week, at the end of the week, this could be something else, you're setting up a para state television, a planet TV with Telekom funds, and that's what 15 million euros are for. What more do you want? In Goriška we said, we laughed when we spoke once on that side is Berlusconism, it has television, it understands the nation, they watch the jackets and so on, strongly seen in us, but of course the educational shows are not as strong as we would like, and for this is the blame of RTV leadership. What colleague Tanko said in the introduction all of this applies to the administration that was before that administration. That's what you're saying. Tell me that you then appointed the director of RTV, who was a car dealer. That's what he said on TV, that he has no idea about television, except sometimes he has no idea about television. That was your candidacy. This made those holes and caused the things that this team then began to repair also by returning more paid personal income. It's a very clear way. All that is public must be destroyed – media, newspaper, education, public university, health, sport, etc. Everything needs to be destroyed — and everyone is scared, believe me, not just retired people, and I don't know who, even those workers on TV, teachers, public servants, is in some kind of peacemaking, what's going to happen, because every day they only hear threats. On the Commission for Public Finance Supervision, we have considered this report, which has been mentioned. Today we received, all of you received, from RTV, an explanation from the Supervisory Board: "This is the truth." But I know you're going to do what you're going to do. But one day your governments will be over, you are not über alles, but it will be very difficult to fix after you all this "pomp". But don't worry, we're strong, we still have energy, even though we're gray. And you'll see how the world works when we start doing what we think is right. I will vote against this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u348	Mr. Just Bevk. After him, Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u349	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! I will vote against the dismissal of five members of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board, understandably. However, I am giving up further discussion at this late hour. Today, so many clever thoughts have been expressed that there will be no special harm if I do not continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u350	Procedurally, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u351	As president or as responsible for the work of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport, which also covers the field of culture and the media, I would like to suggest that in future, when an action takes place on a proposal from one of the committees, the president or rapporteur of that committee will also be given the floor. That we will not witness such deception as we have now seen in several introductory debates when, inter alia, it was argued that the Committee covering the area of culture and the media has imposed a discharge. The Committee proposed – which is legally something else and is also within the framework of the Committee's legal order and competence. This is the first thing to stress. Second. This committee did not just as some of you claimed, but on the basis of the arguments that you cited and were grave lies, but on the basis of information [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u352	Mr. Grimes, you're deliberating now. Mag. Grims, you're discussing and please, if you stop, it's not a procedural proposal and I'd like to ask if you can respect [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u353	The President and, in the future, I propose that he get that word, which he has also proposed, in this case, a representative of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u354	Good. It is not right to use the procedural proposal as a debate, and we will probably all agree on that. Moving on, Mr Ivan Grill, followed by Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u355	Surely it would have been much easier for all of us together, and it would have been better for RTV, especially for our viewers and viewers, if the Supervisory Council had resigned on its own and there was no need to make a proposal for a solution. I myself have been on this higher education committee, where we have discussed this report. I must say that there were many questions to which members of the Supervisory Board, the President of the Supervisory Board and the Director did not have the appropriate answers. Even misleading statements by the opposition that the Court of Auditors' report covers a period in which this Supervisory Board was not fully held. Mr Šetinc, President of the Supervisory Board, was also on the Supervisory Board in the previous term. This means that we can talk about the same person who is certainly one of the responsible or co-responsible to the situation on RTV. If we read that report, there was no talk of them stepping in irrationally, spending many millions of money needlessly. Much damage is also done by the fact that only the operation of this public institution from year to year is worse, the ratings are falling, and those shows that were a few years ago a parade horse, not just this house, but in general, among the most viewed shows. Not to mention that there has been a lot of human resources bullying, that there has been a lot of politicisation and such things in general as should not have been in such a public institution. And it's certainly the supervisory board that should prevent these things from going to management. But he didn't do it, obviously it was all in agreement. And now to say that it is illegal to go somewhere if there is no explicit procedure in the RTV Act for how to dispose of someone. It is quite clear that if an organ can appoint someone, the same body can also relieve them. And now let legal opinions subject or adapt to some of their tastes and thus try to mislead the public, I do not think it is fair, but above all unfair to those who look at us. Last but not least, although irregularities have been identified both by the Court of Auditors and other members of the Supervisory Board, which have been pointed out, this institution still operates irrationally, after unnecessary spending of money. Today, too, we can see in some media why, we might say, taxpayer money is being spent irrationally. I would like to point out another dilemma, which today in the debate one of the opposition Members was exposed to the fact that we have prevented or reduced the inflows because, by law, we have now allowed local televisions of regional importance to have a free broadcast on multiplex A. Previously, RTV has placed at a price, at dumped prices, the possibility that commercial televisions could use multiplex A while local televisions had to pay 100,000 euros per year to be able to broadcast. I think that this has been done by RTV at the time to the detriment of our local media and is now much more important, we can say, for the benefit of or for the benefit of our viewers and viewers, where there is a great deal of viewerism, especially local televisions. So once again, I would like to support the conclusion that this Supervisory Board or these five members will be dissolved. But it would be much better and easier if we gave up on our own, which would also be justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u356	Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u357	Mr President, thank you very much. I would say that it is somehow interesting that the opinion of the Commission for the Applicant, Mr Tank, is very important and binding, but when we talked about the Real Property Act, it was not important at the time. They are different standards, ladies and gentlemen. There's something else that actually matters to me. Today, in the National Assembly, we are discussing the resolution of the Supervisory Council, and we are not talking about the content of what is going to happen on RTV. But look, RTV is a public television and Mr Tanko spoke in his explanation about the fact that he is doing bad public RTV, that he has fewer and fewer viewers and that the supervisory world should therefore be replaced. And we should talk about what we will do, ladies and gentlemen, in order for public RTV to do better and better. That's actually our job. That's what we should be worried about. Not to worry about replacing the overseers, talking about what is wrong, and what else we can do. Today, we have not talked about helping or in what way we will ensure that RTV can work better, that we have not even asked why the government has reduced the subscription to help residents and residents. I fully agree with Mr Vogrin that it would be good if we could help the people with any other cost reduction, and not by reducing the RTV subscription, so that we reach into the harshest way of doing business. And if today we should talk about how RTV will operate in the next period, if, of course, these prices will also be accepted, then we should say no to the Slovenian government, which directly intervened with its actions in the operation of the RTV Institute, the public institution. That's what we should be talking about today. Of course, we talked about the responsibility of the Governing Council because it does not suit us. And what's going to happen is what my colleagues have already warned. We're replacing the supervisory board, replacing the editors, the directors and everything else at the request of someone. That's not right. But of course we'll talk about it. That's why I don't think we're talking about the right content today. We should talk about the responsibility of the Slovenian government. In whose name did she lower her subscription? In whose name did she intervene in the operation of the RTV office by preventing contracts and everything else from being concluded so that the RTV institution could operate normally. And then the president, the leader of the parliamentary group, who also proposes, speaks about the fact that the RTV agency does not do well, that it does bad work, that the RTV ratings of the institution fall. It is not good, ladies and gentlemen, we are guardians of the public RTV agency and we are not interested in private institutions either. That is why I, too, cannot support this, including the fact that this is an intervention that would be good at least to stop, to stop and not to discuss further. We will do damage, and we will not find agreement here on whether this is legal or illegal, and obviously are legal instruments to prove it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u358	Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u359	Thank you. I think it is important to note here, however, very clearly, that the Government has resolved those representatives in the Supervisory Council, which it appoints in accordance with its powers. You also want to relieve the representatives appointed by the National Assembly. The Supervisory Board will become inoperable. The moment he has to submit a financial action plan for the following year. Do you realize that you are preventing the Public Institute of Radiotelevision of Slovenia from adopting, in accordance with the law, a financial plan to be submitted if it wishes to legally obtain funds from the budget and other funds relating to public address financing. You're preventing this. This is how you destroy public television. But as for the procedure itself, and here, Mr President, I am going to ask you very directly and specifically the following things. We need to know that we are not taking this procedure on a proposal from the Government. This procedure shall take place within the National Assembly. Are you competent as President of the National Assembly to guarantee the legality of the proceedings that take place within the National Assembly or not? That's the first question. Second question. The Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth has put forward a proposal. The President of the National Assembly shall determine who is responsible for the examination of certain agenda items. Is this committee home to the report of the Supervisory Board? This shall be decided by the President of the National Assembly. He determines who's native. There is no doubt that it is the home Commission for the supervision of public finances. In this case, there has obviously been an abuse of this provision, and the President should have prevented the illegal procedure that started on the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth from happening at the outset. Next, all the procedural proposals that we have proposed, the President of the Commission, the Mandate-Electorial Commission, does not wish to respect the warnings that before the decision on this committee we will, however, be given the views of the Legislative and Legal Service. And look, it's not just the position of the Legal and Legal Service. If you read it, you will find that the Constitutional Court has already ruled on such cases, has already ruled on such cases, and the Constitutional Court is particularly careful if you interfere with public media. And in this case, it is undeniably clear from this view that this is a procedure which is contrary to the law which is contrary to the Constitution. And why do you feel that the president of the National Assembly is unable to cut down on a procedure that is clearly conducted in contravention of law and constitution? Apparently. I have previously pointed out that the point where we are dealing with the Mandate-Election matters is the point at which individual decisions are then included, regardless of how the National Assembly decides, but when a proposal is made. You can always keep a point like this, this allows you to rule out the rules of procedure. Definitely. And see, also in the explanation of the Commission, the Mandate-Electorial Commission, it is very clear that the decision on discharge is also bound by Article 201 of the Rules of Procedure, which provides that the National Assembly shall dismiss officials elected or appointed by the Constitution, by law or by this Rules of Procedure. I ask, where does the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia say that discharge begins on a proposal from the Committee on Education, Culture, Sport and Youth? Where is it stipulated in the law that the discharge procedure may be initiated on a proposal from this Committee? Give me that answer, and then we'll be able to determine whether you're working with the law or working against the law. What we are doing is actually irrelevant, but it is shameful for the National Assembly, because this procedure is taking place within the National Assembly. And the President, you are truly responsible for ensuring the legality of the procedure. If you do not provide it or someone does not allow it, forgive me, then it is really better that you do not perform this function.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u360	Okay, I can explain again, just like I'm already here. Both leaders of the opposition groups expect me too much or expect me to usurp the Rules of Procedure and allow myself not to place some agenda items at the meeting of the National Assembly. I can't do that. I have received a proposal from the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which is responsible for human resources matters, for Mandate-Voluntary matters. There is no doubt that this is the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. You yourself quoted the rule of the Rules of Procedure, which also relieves officials appointed by the National Assembly. On the other hand, the question is whether the reasons for this discharge are properly justified or not, whether the discharge is lawful or not. The Legislative and Legal Service has given its opinion on this. At your request, I ordered that opinion at your request. This opinion supports all Members and Members of Parliament in their decision-making. Look, you don't want to, you don't want the President of the National Assembly to have this power to, on the basis of some opinion of the Institute of Public Administration or the Law and Legal Service or anyone on the substantive legality and any act to decide whether or not to put the item on the agenda. That's not what you want. You may want to do this today, but next time you won't. And earlier, Mrs Potter had said that the correctness of the work of the President of the National Assembly depended on whether the people who were right were satisfied with his decisions. The only problem is that when a fellow respected Majda Potter thinks he's right, very often a colleague of Jože Tanko thinks he's wrong. And it's my job to decide who's right in such cases. [[advertising from the hall]] And that's not true. You know it's not true. It hasn't been long since I've been able to get very severe readings from that direction. That's just the way it is. The president of the National Assembly is also a lightning rod, nothing to worry about. So, once again, I will say, believe me, I am trying, and I will continue to try, in accordance with the law and the rules of procedure and impartially run the National Assembly, and I am 100% sure that I have done the right thing in this case. The second question is how do I assess the appropriateness of this decision, which is now on the agenda. We can discuss this, and I will vote as one of the 90. But I had to put it on the agenda. I had to. Please understand that. The word has magic. Branko Grimes, who was reported for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u361	Well, everybody's having a good time again. Now, a few words about law first. In addition to the Rules of Procedure, work in Parliament is also defined by legal practice. The legal practice of the last few years has been that the parent body, when considering the report of the Supervisory Board, is also the Commission, which is the Commission for Education, Culture, which also covers the field of the media. Why was that a solution? Because this is not just a number, but a report from the Supervisory Board is the only document that Parliament receives each year, which also covers the substantive issues of RTV’s further development, as well as the activities of RTV and the problems it faces. This is by no means any longer a question which, according to the field, would be brought before the Commission for the supervision of public finances. So why are you so suddenly interested in becoming this commission in contravention of the applicable legal practice of the mother's working body? Because, according to the rules of procedure, it has the only body in Parliament, if we let go of control, most of it by the opposition. This is why you want it to judge primarily politically and in accordance with your interests. But here's a lot of questions. First and foremost, whether members of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Committee acted in accordance with the law and whether they performed their work responsibly. Indeed, the law does not explicitly state when and under what conditions a person can be resolved, but the principle of discharge by the person who sets it is in law, and on an equivalent basis, a proportionate procedure is established. This was carried out in the case at hand. In positive law, however, and good morning, you know, 20 years have passed from one regime to another, which did not know these concepts, that everyone has the right to propose something, but it is up to the person who decides to do so whether or not this proposal takes into account it. That's his sovereign right. We have not done anything else on our committee, as if we have given to those who have appointed members, not only in the given case of Kviaz or Parliament, but also to consider the possibility of disposing of these members to determine whether they are in their opinion appropriate in view of the obvious irregularities that have been, in obvious illegality, to the apparent negligence of these members to continue their work. And why do I speak of lewd conduct? Today you all listed the laws that RTV Slovenia would be deprived of due to austerity measures by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We'll be deprived all of us, you need to know that, some of us have already been, some of us will still be. But in this case, you forgot, of course, because it was your lady that after the negligence of the previous government, in particular Mrs Majde Shirca, who was the Minister, remained RTV Slovenia in that year without more than EUR 5 million of income if memory does not deceive me. You've all forgotten that. Because of pure governmental arrogance, because she was so horribly convinced that her new law on RTV Slovenia would be enforced, she did not ensure that the relevant article was also in the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets. And then there was no legal basis for collecting the subscription, not for collecting one euro, but for the entire subscription or RTV contribution, as it is officially called. Due to pure negligence, RTV was then left without an important part of its revenue. But then you all said the opposite. But you were defending that lady. And there was no talk of anyone getting rid of or anything like what we suggested. And why did you go to the Public Finances Act? Because, as you yourself have used the term "foolish", you have carefully bypassed the referendum-approved law on RTV and thus avoided restrictions on the RTV contribution and have thus raised the RTV contribution in contravention of the referendum decision, and you are confident that there is no re-referendum in the law that constitutes part of the budgetary topic. This was a pure act of law and a referendum decision by the people. That's why you did it. But the supervisors did not respond properly. And that's why I'm saying it's not appropriate for them to do their job recklessly. And the legal absurdity would be to say that the person who tolerates [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u362	Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u363	Thank you for your word. The task of the Supervisory Board is to supervise the administration, not to hold a "stang" in bad decisions and in the stupidities they do. And if it finds anything wrong, it shall also have the right and duty to propose to the competent authorities, in the event of irregularities identified, measures under their jurisdiction. Now let's see what this world of ours was doing on RTV. We know that today we call supervisors in banks to account for what they did and why they watched calmly when the money ran out. It's similar here. Here too is the Supervisory Board who must monitor the work of the administration and react if things do not work as they should. Not that he's even an actor in such matters. The Supervisory Board under the leadership of Mr Lenart Šetinec, who, by the way, is a member of the SD, we have already discussed SD members several times today, so probably such a scrupulous defence. In January, the Supervisory Board amended the statutes of the public institution and reorganised the multimedia centre. You know that the multimedia center RTV Slovenia was then led by Uroš Urbani. They recorded the increase in attendance, including the growth of advertising revenues, but of course they had to find some way to get rid of a good editor who did not write best about the former government or the current opposition. Therefore, they changed their statutes and essentially led the multimedia centre to have a significantly smaller number of users and page representations and is now in fifth place from the second or third place between the portals, and it is likely to be even lower by the end of the year. Then you read the former director of Mr. Guzey a lot of things. In its time, RTV earned revenue of 20 million in 2008 from marketing, last year only 15, according to forecasting even worse. Here I must say that you have also helped a little by the members of the previous coalition, because last summer you changed the law and this market share was still limited. We voted against it at the time, but of course the majority decided then. Several times the ratings of some shows have been lower, yet they have been confirmed by the Supervisory Board for funding further. Renovated studio, 1 million earmarked for software content labs, 800 thousand for a thematic channel that doesn't exist. In those days, we read that the board paid Poloni Just more than 60,000 dollars, even though she did not make a single contribution. Zoran Leskovšek is supposed to receive illegal commissions as the main producer in filming the film Black Brothers. The Supervisory Board has not yet seen this. By the way, they also sold 19 million shares of Eutelsat. A few points back we were talking about selling silver and I don't know what else. This is for RTV silver, which they are happy to sell, and what will happen when these stocks are gone when there is no more to sell. But we read that the board of directors allowed the government to sell 9 million more shares to buy cars. You have this online today, look, it's definitely good business and good control over the work of administration. These are development funds and they have to be earmarked for investments. In 2009, these funds amounted to 73%. What sold out was for investment. Today, only 47%. While funding for the programme is increasing, from 20% in the year 200, we are already at 43%. What's it gonna be, or are we gonna lose the program when the stock runs out? I'd probably be in red numbers without it. Today, Mr. Shetinc sent us one letter. In doing so, he forgot to send a separate opinion to one of the members of the Supervisory Board, and we also received an open letter from the journalist's union, which is angry because the government has reduced its contribution and therefore there will be a need for forgiveness. I'm sure they're not going to fire Mrs Shirca on RTV and some of the former members of Zares who found a job there. According to such information, the Supervisory Board should give up on its own, not that we have to resolve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u364	Mr. Matjaz Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u365	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. First, Mrs. Jeraj. You refer to the Court of Auditors’ report and how this supervisory board has acted poorly. In fact, the Court of Auditors also leaned on the report of the Supervisory Board, which is the first. Secondly, all the information in the Court of Auditors' report is linked to the mandate of the former government. When you say that Lenart Seinec is a member of SD. That's right. Whether it is or not, I don't know. However, you must not forget that the law written by Mr Grims, who said it was a good law, allows five members of the Supervisory Board to appoint political parties. And I don't see any issue here. So there's probably some kind of inside of you that has a yellow and blue card. As far as I'm concerned, I wouldn't mind. The problem is that the Government, regardless of the Court of Auditors’ report, replaced four members of the Supervisory Board one month before this was published. So, with a clear and only goal: to submit RTV Slovenia for its television so that it can somehow publish your likes. We will not vote in favour of the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u366	Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u367	Thank you very much. First, something about the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service relied on the decision of the Constitutional Court of 1994. In this case, if I recall correctly, it was assessed that RTV Director General Zark Petan had been dismissed. The decision of the Constitutional Court, as well as the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, refers specifically to the discharge of the Director of RTV. What the Legislative and Legal Service has written, however, is elastic because they have written down that this should undoubtedly also apply to all authorities of the management, management and control of RTV Slovenia. This is not the case in the decision of the Constitutional Court. And this part is an interpretation of the legal and legal service. If we want to know how the Constitutional Court would decide in this case, a concrete case needs to be put in a constitutional judgement, but not to make an even bigger circle and write it down somehow. Second. The government has cleared four supervisors in RTV from its quota. All four complained to the Administrative Court and the Administrative Court dismissed their complaint to all four of them and stated that "the decision of the defendant on the early dismissal of the complainant as a member of the Supervisory Council of RTV does not have the nature of the administrative act referred to in Article 2 of the ZUS". The contested decision was not issued in the context of the exercise of an administrative function. According to the Court’s assessment, early termination of membership does not constitute an infringement of an individual’s right or benefit. This is from a decision of the Administrative Court. So much for legality. The court has decided, and this is where we interpret. The Constitutional Court also ruled and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly wrote an interpretative part on what is not in the Constitutional Court's decision. Here again we hear some stories about ratings falling due to a reduction in subscription. The ratings, Mr Meh, fell before the subscription was reduced, and already years before the subscription was reduced, RTV ratings and RTV's share in programme notes and other matters fell. Your party president also said that the media government is recruiting party soldiers. Which one? We have filled a gap and a void in the field of STA. In the area of the RTV Supervisory Board, we have not been able to do anything yet, because first of all, if we want to do anything, we need to resolve those supervisors proposed by the National Assembly. Only then will we be able to determine whether or not it's warriors. But they are soldiers in the control world and the programming world of RTV. Here I see that SD has some special love for the media and especially for RTV. He holds the office of President of the Programme Council as well as of the President of the Supervisory Board of RTV. And not what you have to report to others who don't actually have any of it in this area. This isn't about any warriors. The proceedings have not yet begun. If we now adopt an appropriate decision, then the processes will be initiated, and if they do, then anything we can do in this area will be done. One more thing, Mr. Meh, or Mr. Brulc. Planet TV is a project of the former government. The former government has relaxed on Telekom, Mr Golobic has managed a project there to establish another television. Mr. Pahor is sitting next to you, and ask him if that's not true. It's true. And what's the problem here? Because your government is gone, we should put some things on our heads. You stopped them, things are running, and we'll see what happens in the end. Don't write anything down to someone who didn't do it. All of this happened in the mandate you had. As regards the vote here, I will support the proposal for enlargement.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u368	Procedurally, Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u369	Thank you, President. At least after this review, which I have before me, we have exhausted the proposals for discussion and I would like to propose a procedural proposal, which I justify both with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and with the views of the debaters, where it has been clearly stated that we should also respect judicial practice in our decision-making. It is very clear from the view of the Legislative and Legal Service that constitutional practice is such that the decision to vote is contrary to the Constitution. Therefore, I am procedurally proposing that, on the basis of constitutional practice, the National Assembly will not decide on a decision to dismiss the five members of the RTV Supervisory Board. It's important that we don't make that decision. At the time of the decision of the National Assembly, it was in fact a violation of the Constitution itself, a non-compliance with the law, and we are the ones deciding on the illegal decision. I think it is right that we decide not to vote on this decision, which is contrary to the Constitution, and that can also be proved by constitutional practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u370	I understand your procedural proposal as a proposal under Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure to postpone the decision to one of the following meetings. And I will put this procedural proposal to the vote. Does anyone wish to present their position on behalf of the parliamentary group? We are voting on Mr Weber's procedural proposal to postpone the decision on the proposal for a decision to dismiss five members of the RTV Supervisory Council of Slovenia to one of the following meetings. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. What do you want, Mrs. Kociper? Procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u371	Your Honor! I want to help you out of this embarrassment. I mean, I don't have to think about it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u372	Look, I don't need any help with the embarrassment, because I'm not embarrassed. If you have a procedural proposal, please tell me, otherwise I won't give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u373	However, I do not wish to help you out of embarrassment, but I would like to make a procedural proposal not to allow a decision on this decision to be taken, but not to postpone it to the next meeting. I'll get to the bottom of this. What has happened to you has also happened to me as President of the Committee on Home Affairs. I, too, have been invited by the Members of the two groups to discuss a topic at the meeting and to adopt conclusions which I have come to suspect are not legal and would be contrary to the law and would go beyond the powers of the National Assembly. I asked for an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service which has given me the authority to do so. The decision on these matters, whether or not it was a matter of special supervision and why the Attorney General ordered it would go beyond the powers of the National Assembly, and in this case the decisions taken by that Committee and proposed by the Coalition could be illegal. After consulting the professional services in accordance with parliamentary practice, I myself, as chairman of the committee, have decided not to discuss this point, as proposed by the Legislative and Legal Service, nor to vote on the conclusions. No one in the National Assembly questioned that. As we know, committees in the National Assembly are subject to the same legalities as the work of the National Assembly. I therefore suggest that you do the same, whether you are embarrassed or not, and decide, as we advise you, and avoid illegal decisions. Because in the end tomorrow the newspaper will say, "the Parliament will resolve the supervisors of RTV Slovenia," and nothing will be said by us poor people, who cried and cried, that we did not want to make illegal decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u374	This would be even worse if, after the vote, 31 votes in favour, 47 against, he voluntarily prohibited a vote on a certain item on the agenda. I hope you're aware of what you're proposing to me or what you're expecting from me. Please don't do this. I think we have the right relations with both opposition parliamentary groups, we can all agree, there are no specific problems. If there is any request, desire, interest, and if the matter is in accordance with the rules of procedure, I always do. So please don't ask me to do illegal things and things contrary to the rules of procedure. Here you go, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u375	Otherwise, I expected a slightly different detour, but given that you are simply stubbornly insisting here, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will announce obstruction, because we will simply not participate in this massacre, learning and this non-democracy. Thank you very much. You're working with yourself!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u376	At this point, Mr. Möderndorfer, or until the end of the mandate-holder's business? Until the end of the term of office. Good. Thank you very much for your information. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of five members of the Supervisory Board. We'll wait a minute. Mag. Dean the Jew's explanation for the voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u377	Thank you, Chairman. As an MP, I'm embarrassed. If all the Members present know that we must vote against the constitutional, illegal and decision which is contrary to the legal order of the National Assembly. But there's a difference. There are Members who acknowledge this, and there are Members who, because of their interest and their objectives, do not acknowledge it. However, as the President of the National Assembly needs to know, he is the one who must protect the reputation of this National Assembly and the legality of the functioning of the National Assembly, we have come into a terribly impossible situation, that the greatest opponent of the National Assembly is its current President, who is in violation of the things that Members and Members must hold. Therefore, I cannot vote in favour of such a proposal, which is illegal and unconstitutional. However, if you make a proposal to dismiss the President of the National Assembly because of disrespect for the National Assembly, the violation of the Constitution and the legislation, you have my vote in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u378	Thank you very much. This proposal can be tabled by you at any time and will be included in the meeting. Mag. Exploitation, here you go, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u379	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. It's all bob against the wall. But I would like to say that I will not vote on this proposal. I am also pleased that our Group of Members has not decided to obstruct itself so that they will not be able to explain later how the proposal for the discharge of the members of the Supervisory Board was unanimously adopted. I will vote against and use this option. However, I would only point out that we have heard so much misleading information in support of the proposal for the discharge of supervisors. One of the last was that the Supervisory Board approved $9 million for purchase. In particular, I would like to point out that this is the decision of the previous Supervisory Committee, which is now being implemented. Let the question be asked by those who accept it and take responsibility for it and now launch the news well, and everything falls into this supervisory committee. In previous discussions, I have reasoned that we have law enforcement authorities, that we have bodies to carry out their work and that they should do it to you if anything is wrong. However, I think that there is also someone in this Chamber who is aware that some of the laws adopted in the previous term by Ivan Janša have caused a number of problems and irregularities on RTV, which had to be rectified, that RTV and Borut Pahor's mandate were a great deal of work, that they began to correct irregularities and that is why I cannot vote for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u380	Voice explanation, mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u381	Your Honor! Actually, I have two important questions coming up. For the first time, how can so many legal professionals be prevented from laying down a discharge procedure. And how many such laws do we have with such holes? That's one question. However, the second issue is in the light of austerity measures. And it happens to me, I've been really thinking all the time about whether or not I would have answered an important question that I'm actually asking all of us, why we even have a legal service. I believe, but it is not necessarily that I am right that we do not need it, because not only now in this case, but even if the ten-year history back shows that we do not respect it anyway. I am not accusing anyone now, but the case, I specifically went to look at quite a few cases that show that the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service is not actually binding and then this cost, would be expressed in the economic language business, unnecessary. And in this sense, I think it's a shame that we're going to get into a situation, that some lawsuits will be filed again, as in the case of deleted cases, and we'll solve the situation again. That's too bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u382	This was an explanation for the vote, which means we don't even know how you're going to vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u383	I can say, I'm sorry, Mr President, I forgot to say. I'm with a colleague of mags. We've been in harmony with the Jews many times, and I'm not voting either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-06.ana.u384	Thank you. Before the vote again, there will be no mistake. I have asked for an opinion on the legislative and legal service because this interest has been expressed by the leader of the Group of Social Democrats. We got that opinion. It is a tool and to assist each Member and every Member in its decision-making. In the future, however, I must say that many times more will happen, that the Law-Legal Service will give its comments to individual laws, articles, amendments and I hope that no future President of the National Assembly will get the idea that due to some substantive, legal criticisms he will not put the item on the agenda. I am so 100% sure that I am right, but I will not refer to my doctorate in legal science, because I think that you have all gained some legal knowledge with your work in the National Assembly, especially when it comes to the rules of procedure, and I believe that my colleagues from the opposition are essentially at the bottom of my soul here. I would now like to put a motion for a decision to the vote. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, for 44, for 13. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 13.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the 17th item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the CEO and the acting member of the Board of Directors of the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. By letter of 20 September 2012, the Government proposed to the National Assembly that, in the Agency for the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Benčino be appointed CEO and Mrs Janjo Holcman Babič as CEO. The Government's proposal was treated by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as a parent working body, which also reported in writing to the National Assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. Would you like to speak to the chairman of the commission to present the report? No, no, no. Presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups, who would like to introduce? Not at all. It's a debate. Anybody want a word? Not at all. We're done with the debate. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mr Janez Benčina as Acting President of the AUKN administration and Mrs Janje Holcman Babič as Acting Member of the AUKN administration. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, for 60, for 8. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the sixth session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed on Friday at 10 a.m. If the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy does not conclude its consideration of the Bank Resolution Act tomorrow, you will be informed by the Heads of the Group of Members of the date of the meeting.
