ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the adjourned 4th meeting of the National Assembly and with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, this is the 2011 report on the Commission's work on the supervision of intelligence and security services by means of a proposal for conclusions. We are moving on to a discussion on the draft decisions submitted to the assembly by the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. First of all, he's got the word mag. Melita Zupevec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. On behalf of the applicants, I'd like to ask that my time be set aside. Thank you. For a little while. Good-bye, everybody! I hope that there is no interest in considering this report on the work of the Commission on Security and Intelligence Services now that we are in an open session, I am sure that our fellow Members will come back, not least to discuss the report on the Commission's work for 2011. So we are considering the report on the work of the previous mandate, the previous commission led by another president. On behalf of the Commission, which I am leading in this mandate, I would just like to say that the Commission is proposing to the National Assembly and adopting three proposals for future-oriented decisions, i.e. how we represent our work in this mandate. To short-circuit these three proposals for conclusions, I will not read the entire conclusions published on the Lotus Notes network, this is that the National Assembly calls on the Government to ensure, directly and through the competent ministries and services, the efficient and transparent work of the supervised institutions. This will allow the Commission to look into the admissibility and necessity of restrictive measures in order to monitor the work of security and intelligence services. After that, the National Assembly shall support the Commission's efforts to carry out its tasks effectively. And, under the third point, that the National Assembly supports this committee in the sense that in the future more self-initiative or information by the Government and the intelligence and security institutions in the field of their activities or individual strategic tasks, which are important for national interest and sometimes even risky. And just one more thing, so far, information that has been coming directly or directly to this commission on the basis of some anonymous applications has proved to be more harmful than the benefits. It is therefore good that this Commission is well informed that it operates in the letter of the Rules of Procedure and in the law which also prescribes tasks. I express the expectation that for the first time in a few years in the National Assembly, these three decisions will also be proposed by the Commission for the supervision of the work of security and intelligence services. So much for a start.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I would also like to ask you, now that you have spoken on behalf of the proposer, are you also listed here in the debate? You won't discuss it. I don't see Mrs. Janez Ribič in the hall. The next one is mag. Matthew Tonin and Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u4	The work of the intelligence services, especially the good work of the intelligence services, is in the interest of all of us, both the coalition and the opposition. For those who may not know the relationship, for example, between the Slovenian Intelligence Service and Parliament, I would say that the Slovenian Intelligence Service, in short, is under the direct authority of the Prime Minister of the Government, but the Security Services Supervisory Commission is the parliamentary commission in which the majority of the opposition is in possession, and this commission oversees the work of this service. We have a report ahead of us on what this Commission has been doing in the past year. We have previously analysed this report in detail in the closed part of this meeting, and I think it is important for all of us members of this Commission for the future, so that the mistakes made by the previous Commission or things that have been wronged in the past are easily corrected in this new mandate. I think that this is also all I can say in this public work, because it is difficult to deal with the content now, because I think I will be in breach of the legislation, so it is better to stop at this point and, of course, say that the New Slovenia Group will support these proposed conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music. I'm sorry, just to tell the next debaters. I'm sorry if I'm going to let anyone go, they've given up a lot of debate, and please let me know if we're going to skip anyone. The next one will be Mr Roman Žveglič, who is not here, but will then be regulated. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u6	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are discussing the Commission's report on the supervision of intelligence and security services, and it is very interesting that we are in the Chamber mainly Members and Members from Positive Slovenia, some from the party SD, two from New Slovenia and only three from the party SDS. I can't see any of them from the Citizen's List, except for one right now. It's very interesting what's going on. Doesn't any of this report interest you? I wonder if they'll come when we confirm the proposals for conclusions. So far, it has been shown that information coming directly or indirectly to the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services on the basis of anonymous applications has caused more harm than benefits. Because of the strict principle of need-to-know, which applies within the functioning of institutions, such information may also be distorted. It is high time that this commission began to operate by law and procedure, not that its compass is an affair that arises in the public and disappears as it has come. It is clear from the previous mandate that the Affair approach to the work of this Commission had no effect, even on the contrary, caused more damage than the benefits. The Commission wanted to get involved in specific cases investigated by the police, but would not like to lock up, so I will not mention which. Respectable, respected, it is right to compete with each other, but let this match be directed towards a common goal for the better lives of all citizens and citizens and for the greater security of all of us within this system, which we create ourselves. And if this system is good, if it's based on a fair relationship, it'll be better for everyone. If we have chosen to be each on our own shore, we must be aware that we have a common valley, a river and everything that connects us, without which there is no life, so our goal must be to live well, securely, and that the Commission is carrying out the tasks it has to face. That the cooperation of all institutions that should report and inform our committee should also be made known, because I wish, as a Member of the Republic of Slovenia, that we are familiar with everything that is going on in this country, because we must bear responsibility and bear it one way or another, one less. I am aware of my responsibilities, respected, and I want us to do much more in this country than we have done in the past and to look to the future and to take from the past only rich experiences that should not be repeated in our future. We all have to fight extreme extremism, let it be from anywhere and anyway, not in our space. If we monitor properly, and if we do not distort the actual picture and the actual state of affairs in the public, we will not create an emergency situation needlessly, then it will be better and better for everyone. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Žveglič, Mr Jerko Čehovin will be next. You're giving up, and then you're giving up, Mr. Chekovin. And the next one is mag. Ivan Vogrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u8	Thank you very much. In this open part of the meeting, we will in fact discuss these three conclusions offered for adoption. I think it is very - if I can use such an expression - sterile conclusions, but their intention is that they are more forward-looking than in the past. Although I have a critical attitude to the work of this Commission in the past and I have also expressed it in a closed session, at this moment it seems more important that we focus on this year and on the years ahead. The situation in a broader sense, I will say, not only economic-political but also in the wider Mediterranean area, is such that it requires considerable action from these services both outside and at home, given the known situations, particularly as regards the criminal police, as well. Therefore, I think it is good that we support these conclusions and call upon all those who can contribute to a better part of the Commission, in particular those who owe us the necessary information and leverage for our work to support us in our work. But of course, I will support the conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u9	Thank you. Mag. Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u10	Thank you very much. I've already said my position in a closed session, so I'm giving up. Why should I repeat myself?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek and the next Mr Jakob Presječnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u12	Thank you very much again. I too have come to the closed work, but I must say that the consideration of this report every time is extremely important and the conclusions that are before us are also important. In the second decision, it addresses those areas where the supervised service has the right to refuse to report to the Commission if it considers that the matter is still so current or for other reasons. And the commission for the previous year also says that some important matters have remained hidden or unexplained before the Commission. That's what always happens. Sometimes there's an excuse, sometimes there's no excuse. But I'd like to know what those things are that are unexplained. Here I have seen the strong nervousness of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia before the work of the Commission and before the work of the Commission in the previous term. Perhaps this is a defense, or an attack, that prevents intelligence services from becoming too involved in the pursuit of corruption. But it is intelligence services that must obtain the most information about what is going on in the tax havens, where famous people from Slovenia opened companies, placed money there, that is, of course, remarkable and that is why we have today, for example, banks in the same condition as we have. I believe that this prevents the attacking director of the intelligence service, Mr Črnčec, who is an outstanding professional and far from being able to be judged by anyone, close to or by a party or a ruling party, because in this case he would certainly not have held the whole mandate with Minister Jelusic as an excellent professional. As a result of his professional experience, he also took up the position of director of Sova and was immediately accused of wanting to abolish military intelligence, this government and him personally. Now, let's talk about these inexplicable things. I suppose that there may also be unexplained issues about the fact that they are individuals, not to say the President of the Government, I am absolutely excluding the previous one from this, but from his proximity, they have served very specific methods and individuals. Enunciate the case of Urska Čepin and the head of the propaganda service for Mr Darjan Koshir, who hired her. Of course, it is a question of what was discovered later and hiding, whether the country was being Tangled here, or whether it was illegal matters. Because this comes to me when, at the time of Hitler's Nazism, Mr Heydrich, President of the Intelligence Service, invented the so-called blue section, that the book we were reading is also a blue section, when very educated young people were engaged to collect information on paradise through erotic approaches. And we know what he was babbling about — in this book it is written — the then Italian foreign minister, Mussolini’s minister, Count Ciano, and other cases. And given the fact that several women were involved in some massages in this case, the question was whether or not it was also intended to lure people from whom they wanted intelligence. And this matter must certainly be investigated, because it would be a severe deformation. They were people from the cabinet who were in a relationship and engaged a certain person for propaganda in favour of the former government coalition, which has now disintegrated, even after this largest government party. The second thing the report deals with and today has been a lot of talk, about extreme groups operating also through territory or in the territory of Slovenia. In fact, extreme groups are mentioned, including fundamentalist groups, which must always be subject to the attention of intelligence services, because this is not only a Slovenian matter, it is an international matter. I must point out what I pointed out yesterday, by means of the Religious Freedom Act, that 10 people could register a religious community – allowing sects to work under the protection of religious groups in the territories of Slovenia. And there's a big connection. These extremist groups, which are described, would register tomorrow as religious groups and have protection, absolute protection as religious groups, because every insight into them is a violation of human rights, international affairs and so on. And from here, I warn you how perfidious and dangerous things you try through the contents of the ideological law on religious freedom to sail and prevent the state from being effective. These are inexplicable matters to be pointed out. There's one more thing. It is also mentioned that foreign intelligence services have shown a great deal of activity and interest in war crimes trials. Of course, this is where it goes in a positive direction, because in this area Slovenia does not take appropriate steps. We know that the Prime Minister of the Government, the left government, the parallels of the party of Social Democrats, in Maribor made it clear that war crimes were involved and that those leaders were war criminals. And the information that another country intends to take action in this area is very relevant, as it is said to have archival documents against some other living revolutionaries who have been practically taboo themes and protected in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. The next one is Mr. Happy Meh. Ms Tina Komel, who appeared instead of Mrs Masha Kociper, should prepare herself.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u14	It is really difficult for Mr Jerovsk to speak and say the essence of the topic that we are dealing with today. It is essential that we inform citizens and citizens today that the Commission for the Control of Security and Information Services is working, that it is designed today to adopt a report for 2011, which we have not had an impact on, and that today we are also adopting conclusions that will allow us to continue to do what we would like in 2012 as we are actually talking about the supervision of security and intelligence services. Our communication is necessary to inform that laws must be respected, that institutions must be respected and that the work of the security and intelligence services should not be involved by the government, that no one should be involved in any system and in any case, and that we, that is, the Commission, are those who will try to control, monitor and, of course, act and report to the public if anything has happened. Surely we can say that in these six months, since we started working somehow, we have established the basic foundations for the functioning of this Commission, and if anyone, including citizens and citizens, understands or thinks that something is wrong with the functioning of our supervisory institutions, security and intelligence services or anything else, then the Commission is the right address. Today, we should also report here one part of what we talked about in a closed session, namely that we need to provide security and intelligence services with the necessary financial and other means to ensure that they can work, especially because the economic situation is difficult because many people are in an extremely difficult situation and are the best conditions for creating or starting extremist activities, which would not be necessary. Above all, it is essential that we respect the laws, human freedom, the Constitution, and, of course, the rights that a person must have. That is actually the point, and the commission is working on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u15	Thank you. Mrs. Tina Comel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! What this commission has done in recent years can be found out from the articles. Everything is very, I think, very worrying. The National Assembly rejected the report of the Montenegrin Commission of Intelligence and Security Services. The Commission has assessed that in the previous mandate, the Authority has subordinated the Police and the Slovenian Security Intelligence Agency of the SOVA and that parliamentary supervision is disturbing and unnecessary for it. We can also read that Zvonko Černač pointed out last July as head of this commission that the police and justice are subordinated to one political party and there is no independent control over the functioning of the police. What is our situation today? Another 100 times, not 100 times, 100 plus 10 times worse. This same SDS party transferred the prosecution to the police, where not only one party has control over both organs, but only one person, namely Minister Gorenak. Does that seem normal to you?Oh, my God! Not to me. For this there is a familiar, good saying: Kadiah sues, the Cadiah judges. We can also read that the National Assembly should express its expectation that "the supervised institutions will see parliamentary supervision of the work of the intelligence and security services as a contribution to ensuring the independence and expertise of these services and as a contribution to preventing their politicisation". Among other things, the Commission is expected to propose the adoption of such amendments to the legislation as "to prevent the abuse of the police for political purposes". As the motion for an urgent meeting of the Commission has been made by the motioners, it can be concluded, on the basis of an analysis of the cases that have been media-exposed in recent years, that individual investigation measures have also been used to discriminate against visible individuals whose acts of economic crime have nothing to do with them. I am concerned that despite the promises of the SDS that they want to prevent the abuse of the police and the prosecution for political purposes, their actions by moving the prosecution under the police indicate that they will strike strongly after Positive Slovenia, because we are the largest party that infuses citizens and gives hope for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u17	Thank you. I don't see Mr. Franz Pukšič in the hall. Mr Roman Jakič is next. After him, because many have given up, Mr Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Let me begin by expressing my concern that, as Vice-President, you did not stop today in certain discussions the speakers who went over the edge and also talked about the closed session. Because if that were the case, then I don't know why we have closed sessions and leave all the debaters in a closed session to be heard in public. That's not right, and I'd ask you to do it, including me, if I go across that line. But it was true that he was your client friend, and you probably didn't have the courage to stop him. Today we are talking about three conclusions, we have spoken in detail about the 2011 report in closed session, and today we are talking about three conclusions in an open session that should enable the Commission to work better to oversee security and intelligence services in the Republic of Slovenia. Why is this urgent? For a simple reason, the Commission controls those who interfere with fundamental human rights which affect the constitutional right of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as constitutional rights or human rights of those who are not citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And the only guide that should be present in the debate on this is, of course, the legality of the work of the security intelligence services, which is the most important element for this debate as well. I must say that I have missed in the past, even through reading magnetograms in an open session that dealt with the reports of previous years, I have missed some substantive thought about what the Commission for Security and Intelligence Services should actually be doing. She supervised these services so that they did not violate the law in the use of special investigation methods. I have missed, and it is clear from the documents that we are not talking about this, but from public debates that this affair approach to the work of this Commission, which has not had any effect, has caused more harm than benefits. Finally, I must say, it was also problematic that this Commission had adopted political judgements on the work of law enforcement authorities, which was bad and has received the call for politically motivated, directed and unprofessional action. I'm pretty sure that's not gonna happen in the future. The work of the Commission for the supervision of the Security and Intelligence Service in the National Assembly does not follow this bad tradition which it inherited from the previous majority in this committee for the supervision of security and intelligence services. I must say that these three conclusions, which are on the table, speak of the importance that this Commission will once again gain in society to start dealing with security and intelligence assessments that are helpful to this end, or, in what way, to send our representatives, soldiers to the missions in Afghanistan, Syria. The task is, of course, to inform the competent authorities in the Republic of Slovenia of the security and intelligence information concerning neighbouring countries and so on and so forth. The worst part is, of course, if this Commission and this Parliament deal with daily political stories and, of course, involves such stories. And the magnetograms show that they were dealing with partial interests. I alone personally and Positive Slovenia have no problem with anything and is very transparent, but it is indeed problematic – and this closed part of the meeting has nevertheless highlighted – the issue of not having any assessment of the increase of extremism in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to foreign countries. And of course all these conclusions are in favour of the Commission being able to work so that the Commission can work normally. As you know, the Commission has been waiting for some time from the Government and has already been called upon to receive a report on right-wing extremism in the Republic of Slovenia, but this government, unfortunately, does not wish to give this report or has any problem with giving this report to the Commission, which is responsible for the supervision of security and intelligence services. If I were very political and political, I might say that this is also possible as a result of what we could read in the newspaper, and it is wrong to read only in the newspaper and not get the official position of the Government and the competent services, that it is possible to embarrass this government, too, that one of these extremist, right-wing extremist groups is associated with the ruling, the largest ruling party, is called the SDS. But I don't want to speculate, and I'd like to see this speculation overturned when we get this report and deal with it. It is therefore right that all three of the proposed conclusions, which go precisely in this direction, are for the government to ensure, directly and through the competent ministries, the efficient and transparent work of the supervisory institutions and that control of all processes of data acquisition and use and of specific forms of data and information as it must be – is legal. Therefore, I must once again express my regret at the performance of at least one colleague in the National Assembly, who again reduced the reputation of the National Assembly and spoke as if he were eating some crazy mushrooms this morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakič, I'm going to hold on to the subjective grades you're spending around this place. Of course, I am responsible for conducting this session, and there is no need for you to teach me how to do it. At this point, I apologize to Mrs Maja Dimitrovski, for her many replacements, I have overlooked that you have applied instead of mags. Boruta Ambrožich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. I support the conclusions myself. At first glance, they may seem self-evident, but from my own experience, I can say, as a member of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, that the conclusions speak of the problems and work of the Commission itself and are therefore of great importance. In the closed part of the meeting, I have given quite a few concrete examples of the problem facing our Commission, which I will not refer to here for content. However, I call on the Government to ensure to the Commission, directly and through the competent ministries and services, the efficient and transparent work of the supervised institutions. I call on the Government to ensure that the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services referred to in Articles 5 and 6 of the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services provides for the implementation of a basic function, i.e. the supervision of all processes for the collection and use of data and specific forms of data and information, so that important matters do not remain hidden and unexplained from the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u21	It's your turn now, Mr. Zanoskar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u22	Hall beautiful, Madam Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Together, we are convinced that the security of citizens and citizens is very important and that security intelligence services are one of the important segments that ensure security for our citizens and citizens. It is true, however, that the report also mentions several times today the suspicion that security intelligence services can work professionally. Yes, you can. They are responsible for their work, and they must be accountable to the National Assembly, of course to the Intelligence Supervisory Commission. It is also possible that a segment that has a more political foregleam can somehow sneak into their work. That's not good. And I am sure that the Commission's report on the supervision of intelligence and security services in the past period has also been what it is. It's not good. This is because such cooperation has also taken place between the Supervisory and Security Intelligence Commissions. Today, conclusions have been read for the work of the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services. These conclusions are good, the thought is good, the ideas are good, the Commission's programme is good, but this condition is that security and intelligence services work together as is necessary with our commission, but it is questionable. It is also questionable because some of the actions that followed immediately after the establishment of the new government, such as the replacement of some personnel either in the archive or in our security and intelligence services, somehow indicate that someone is trying very hard to get these security and intelligence services to work very heavily under a tactic and the question is how much will the Commission for Security and Intelligence Services be receiving this real data from these services. We must be aware that the National Assembly is the highest institution and that the bodies of the National Assembly are also those who, indirectly, report to the National Assembly on the work of such very subtle and sensitive services as security and intelligence services. Therefore, in the following term of office, when this commission for the supervision of the security and intelligence services belongs to the leadership of the opposition, we would expect to receive good information, honest, which is necessary for our information and information to the National Assembly. In the end, we can say that the safety of citizens and citizens is not a domain of the coalition alone, not a government domain and not just a domain of security and intelligence services, but is the domain of all of us who represent Parliament, that is to say, to a large extent the opposition. I want to work successfully with the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services and, of course, much more constructive cooperation than it was in the goddamn mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Dragutin Mate is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u24	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to point out something about the work of the Commission, particularly with regard to some of the sentences that have now been said, namely that the Commission has been in the work so far, this year, when we actually started our work, I can say that as a member of the Commission, I was extremely pleased that in all the controls we have had the full cooperation of all the services we have visited, all the data and all the information that we can get under the law have been available to us. And we didn't run into any obstacles. This is a good traveller that the Commission will be able to continue to do its job well and properly, which it has to oversee on behalf of Parliament the work of all intelligence and security services, and in doing so in particular to ensure their work in such a way as to make this work legal. Of course, it is essential for the good work of the Commission and for the good supervision of the Commission that the Commission itself respects the law, respects the rules and focuses on the areas of control for which it is responsible. And the main area of our control is to ensure or verify the legality of the service. I myself, as a member of the commission, will strongly insist on this and make every effort to get a review of how these services work legally and to see if they work legally. This is an extremely important, extremely important message for our citizens, that Parliament, regardless of political parties, wants and will work with all its forces and powers to establish such control over the work of intelligence and security services as is necessary, and that we will ensure, through our work, the performance of their tasks, which also affect the rights of citizens to privacy and certain other areas, that these actions of covert investigative measures will be carried out exclusively and only in accordance with the law and that no rights are violated in doing so. There's something else that matters. In the meantime, it has been said that we may also have some institutions in the country that in some other way are trying to control, etc. I think we must be extremely careful with such assessments, so that we must trust in the services that this country has, which must be professional, professional and not politically coloured. I hope they are, because otherwise our safety will be greatly threatened sooner or later. These services must be discovered if such phenomena occur in society. Unfortunately, I also have to strongly oppose some of the issues that I have heard today, even in the open part of the meeting, when some political or extreme groups connect with one party. This is inappropriate, there is no evidence for this, and this is the politics that the one who spoke about it wanted to avoid. If we are talking about what the media are writing, we could also say that some other members of the parties have been at some meeting and have been in company with some people who may also be members of some extreme group. With regard to extreme groups in Slovenia, it is only something that matters to me, whether they are left or right, they are related to race, sex, it is totally irrelevant, but only one thing concerns me – if we have such groups, if these groups act against the safety of citizens or against the government institutions of the country, that law enforcement authorities do everything to prevent it, and it is completely irrelevant what color extremism is. And, of course, the work of the Commission must be followed in this direction. One more time, to finish. On our part, I think it is most important today's message to our citizens that Parliament, with all its resources, will, with all the support of the decision, make it possible for the institution it holds to do so, and this is the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services, so that it can carry out its work in such a way as to ensure that all three services that are able to carry out covert investigative measures in Slovenia are carried out exclusively and only in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Even on behalf of the proposer, Mag. Melita Zupevec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I am pleased that these three conclusions proposed by the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services will in fact be adopted today. I think that this is a real journey and some commitment to the services that we see and, last but not least, to the government, that it is the responsibility of this commission to enable normal, legal and business work. But at the end of the day, there are only three things I'd like to point out. I've been in a closed session before, and he's talking about some general things that seem important to me. This is for the report on the work of this commission to be considered at the end of each mandate, so that it does not happen as it did today, that we are considering a report led by another opposition, which is the work of another political party and, above all, another mandate. I therefore think that the Commission is doing its job in the current mandate of the National Assembly, but not that it is the new Parliament, that the new Members are faced with some way of defining themselves to work, to the point of view, to the judgments of the previous Commission under the previous composition. The second thing that seems important to me and would be welcome in this House is to start treating this committee as a partner, not as an oasis dealing with some exotic stuff. I'll give you a case. I said before, I would be very happy if this Commission worked more closely with the Defence Committee and the Committee on Foreign Policy. I'll give you a case. We have recently addressed the security situation in Syria in the National Assembly, where we also sent a Slovenian observer. You know that our services in this area are doing quality work and have also reported to those committees. I would also like these two committees to understand that the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services is an important element and it is right to include it in the work and reporting of these services in an appropriate manner. And then there's the third thing. I must say that I, as President of this Commission, have no problem in having the directors of the competent supervisory services invited to address this report in the National Assembly. I think it's right that they have an opportunity to explain. I was told that this was already a practice in the past, and, as it is said, I do not oppose this practice. There's just one more thing. I am now expressing a personal commitment to make sure that this commission does not work on the basis of press articles, as has already been said. It is true, however, that if the Commission receives material at the request and requests of the Commission, there is probably no alternative. I will try to do what is right, in accordance with the rules of procedure and also with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have exhausted the list of those who wanted to debate, but not the time to debate. I therefore ask whether anyone else would like to discuss it on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. If I see the applications, then I'll open the debate. Anybody? As I see it, no one wants to discuss it. Are we in agreement that no one wants to discuss it? So we won't open the debate. No amendments were tabled to the draft conclusions. The national assembly will vote on the draft decisions submitted to the assembly by the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services today half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're going to the next point, that's 6. Agenda item – Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Environmental Protection Act, Summary Procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 12 Members and Members with a first-signed Richard Branislje. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the applicant. Here's an explanation, Mr. Braniselle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u28	Dear Vice President, colleagues, colleagues! The proposal for the amendment to the Environmental Protection Act, which is before you, is part of a wider set of austerity measures on the side of the National Assembly, and at the same time means the abolition of one of the institutions for which we find that it is no longer necessary. The draft law takes into account, in particular, the principle of savings, economy and transparency. The principle of austerity is reflected in the fact that budgetary resources are not used to finance the achievement of certain objectives that can be achieved without the use of budgetary resources. The principle of economy requires achieving the desired effect with a minimum level of resources. The principle of transparency requires a legal, substantive and financial unequivocal relationship between the National Assembly as a legislative branch of authorities and other bodies and organisations. The Council for the Protection of the Environment is the only independent and independent organisation set up by the National Assembly, while at the same time providing resources exclusively from its budget to operate. Article 150, paragraph 4, of the Environmental Protection Act provides that the functioning of the members of the Environmental Protection Council shall not be professional. Members shall be entitled to meetings of the Environmental Protection Council and to reimbursement of travel costs in accordance with the rules applicable to the public sector and to payments for the production of expert materials in accordance with the rules of the Environmental Protection Council. The Environmental Protection Council is also entitled to business premises and to independent professional-administrative and financial operations. The proposed abolition of the Environmental Protection Council is not a result of its poor work and does not mean a lack of confidence in the work of its members, who are eminent experts in various areas, but in the current public financial situation represents one of the necessary partial austerity measures on the part of the National Assembly, which means savings of EUR 120 000 per year. In the opinion of the proposers, there will be no negative impact on environmental protection and sustainable development. The area of environmental protection will thus remain entirely under the responsibility of the Ministry of Field Affairs following the end of the world. Sustainable development and environmental protection are one of the key directions of our country, and from this point of view it is important that the National Assembly has its consultative body in this area. However, whether the other area, equally or even more important, would therefore not deserve the creation of different saints as consultative bodies in all these areas. Unfortunately, the Republic of Slovenia cannot afford this superstandard in the current public financial crisis. We are proposing that after 17 years of existence the National Assembly may miss this consultative body for the following reasons. All political parties have strong emphasis in their programmes on environmental protection and sustainable development. The development of this area and civil society has progressed so much over the past 17 years, thanks to the Environmental Protection Council, that awareness is at a very high level. This country is in one way or another financed by more than 250 non-governmental organisations operating in the field of environmental protection by operating more than 20 of them in the public interest. In government environmental services, some 706 public officials are employed. Our country has been reformulated in the area of environmental protection, for example, by the Slovenian Environment Agency, where there are persistent problems with the placement of infrastructure, energy facilities into space, the different placement of waste dumps into space, the heavy and environmentally disputed industry is collapsing. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] economic crises, our country has grown by a third over the last 100 years. [[...]] Finally, the National Assembly as a contracting authority and as a service user, the consultative institution has the legitimate right to cancel these services if it considers it no longer needs them.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u29	Mr. Branisel, please finish slowly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u30	The proposer proposes to the National Assembly that the amendment of the Environmental Protection Act be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u32	Honourable President, dear Members and Members, distinguished Secretary of State with a co-worker and other present, lovely greetings! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment considered the proposal for a law amending the Environmental Protection Act as its parent working body at its 6th session. 5. 2012. The committee was attended by representatives of the law-makers, Mr Richard Braniselj, representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, the Legislative and Legal Service and the President of the Environmental Protection Council Dr. Franz Lobnik. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which had no comments on the text of the bill. The representative of the law's proponents presented the objectives and principles of the law and then the president of the Council Dr. Franz Lobnik presented an extensive presentation of the world's operations so far. In particular, he stressed that the functions of the Council could by no means be compared with those of non-governmental organisations, since, in the case of the Council, it was the consultative body of the National Assembly established by law, which were not NGOs. He also pointed out that, with the end of the world, the professional and civil public will find it more difficult to implement their proposals and solutions in the preparation of legislative proposals. The draft law was also addressed by the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. The Commission's report was presented at a meeting of the Committee by its President, who explained that the Commission had not identified itself before the proposal for a law, and in the debate, the members of the Commission pointed out that decisions on the abolition of institutions financed from the State budget should be based on the results of the analyses, which were not made in this case. The Commission also pointed out that the proposed legislation did not provide for the transfer of the Council's tasks to another institution. During the discussion at the Committee's meeting, the Government's opinion was presented by the State Secretary, who is present here today, and explained that a more extensive amendment to the Environmental Protection Act to be tabled in the autumn of 2012 was being prepared. In the context of the amendment of the law, the Ministry will also assess the reasons for the abolition of the Council contained in the proposed law and propose appropriate solutions. In the light of such an explanation by the Secretary of State, a member of the Committee suggested that the Committee should, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, discuss and decide on a proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law would not be suitable for further consideration. The opposition Members agreed with the proposal for a decision and, in the debate on it, stressed that there is no reason to rush the adoption of this law, but that it would be only reasonable to consider both proposals of the law at the same time, namely the government, which will be submitted, and the one that is in the legislative process today. We also drew attention to the very procedure for examining the bill, because we believe that the applicant's explanation for the less difficult amendments to the bill is that the proposal is not valid for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The abolition of a body which has obtained a special position by law, which enables it to be independent and independent in dealing with environmental and other issues, in our view constitutes a major substantive intervention in the legislative provisions. We also noted that if it was already decided to amend a law which had been incorporated into the legislative procedure on the basis of an agreement in the National Assembly, then it would be appropriate to submit it only after the discussion had been reached with all the parliamentary groups. There was no single agreement in this case. On the contrary, members of a coalition committee expressed their conviction that the abolition of the Council was meaningful, as the country in the field of environmental protection was over-regulated and that NGOs could take over the mission and tasks of the Council so far. They also pointed out that the world does not actually have a particular weight, as it can only draw up opinions and the question is also to what extent all governments have taken into consideration the recommendations of the Council in making their decisions. Following the conclusion of the presentation of the views on the proposal, the Committee did not vote on the proposal for a law that was not suitable for further consideration and did not adopt it. The Committee further decided on the two proposed decisions of the opposition Members and did not adopt them. At the end of the discussion, the Committee voted on all the articles of the draft law and adopted them. Since amendments, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment have not been adopted to the National Assembly's draft law on amendments to the Environmental Protection Act have not been adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u33	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation, I also give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mrs Mariti Petrlin, State Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u34	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia explains that a more extensive amendment to the Environmental Protection Act is being prepared, which is expected to be submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in autumn 2012 with a view to the adoption of the Act by the end of 2012. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment is already preparing the text of this proposal and will in particular contain solutions related to the completion of the transposition of the requirements of certain Directives and certain other adaptations to the existing directives due to the procedures run by the European Commission against the Republic of Slovenia. The Ministry will also examine other parts of the law as a result of possible improvements in the drafting process. In this part it is also possible to assess the reasons for the abolition of the Environmental Protection Council of the Republic of Slovenia contained in the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Environmental Protection and to propose appropriate solutions. A contentual same opinion, as the chairman of the Committee has already said, has also been given on the Committee and also on the Committee of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. In the meantime, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment has already drafted the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act, which contains only some urgent measures to promote the economy and eliminate administrative burdens and obstacles that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, together with some other laws, will send to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. This law does not yet contain any provisions governing such bodies. If the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts a proposed law repealing the Council for the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry will examine the possibility of setting up a Council as the consultative body of the Minister responsible for the environment, which could include external experts, institutions and NGOs. Just like before. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not object to the adoption of the law in question if the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the grounds for repealing the Environmental Protection Council of the Republic of Slovenia are such as to require a change of law following a reduced procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u35	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons, Mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u36	Madam Vice-President, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! The DeSUS Group will support the proposed amendment to the Environmental Protection Act, which we cosign. I must point out that the proposal for a law abolishing the 17-year functioning of the Environmental Protection Council is not the fruit of a quick, reckless decision. On the contrary. We have therefore considered the reasons and reasons against the world’s end. The Council was set up in 1993 and by 2001 it was provided by the National Assembly and then by the Environment Ministry and again financed by the National Assembly from last financial year. The reasons for its abolition are exclusively the current public financial situation in the country, and the abolition is only one of the many urgent austerity measures aimed at stabilising public finances, including the National Assembly. The reason for this is by no means an assessment of the world’s functioning or confidence in its functioning. So far, the work of experts, members of the Council, certainly needs to be assessed positively. However, we must also take into account the fact that the functioning of the world is merely consultative and therefore, in assessing whether we need the world in our work or not, we have also made decisions on the basis of this fact. Finally, let me stress that its abolition will have no negative consequences in the area of environmental protection and sustainable development, which are certainly key to our country's direction, as society is now very environmentally-aware. The latter and, of course, as mentioned above, the winding-up of the necessity and necessity of financial expenditure is the reason why the DeSUS Group is a party to this proposal and for the same reasons we will also contribute our votes to the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u37	Thank you very much. New Slovenia delegation group, Mr Janez Vasle.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u38	Madam President, colleagues, colleagues, government representatives, good afternoon! The proposal for a law amending the Law on Environmental Protection proposes the abolition of this Council for the Protection of the Environment, which operates under the auspices of the National Assembly. In the New Slovenia Group, we understand the proposal as one of a number of measures in efforts to balance public finances. Of course, some argue that around 100,000 euros a year, as far as the world budget is concerned, is not a lot of money. And that it's pointless to save on such amounts, but they say even if you don't have money, it's a lot of money. Especially for the body from which clear, solid positions and guidance are expected and good results in their implementation, but in fact the picture was different. Over the past year, the Environmental Protection Council has prepared a number of consultations and drawn up some views and one of the main topics was the position towards the proposed construction of TES 6. The Council proposed that the Government order the production of a cleaner energy scenario with intensive focus, efficient and cost-effective use and renewable energy sources to show whether it is possible to achieve adequate energy supply in the medium term even without TES 6 and NEK 2. One of the main recommendations of the Council was that the Government should hold a broad public debate on this issue. Unfortunately, we have found that none of this has actually been established. In addition, I would like to add that we would expect from this world at least a clear position for or against the project supported by the arguments of the profession. We've been waiting for you for nothing. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that it is absolutely right for NGOs to unite. There are more options for this, and it is not the only possibility that this is being done in the National Assembly. For example, the Ministry of the Environment suggests that, in the context of this autumn's planned major amendments to the Environmental Protection Act, the possibility of transferring the platform from the Environment Protection Council under the auspices of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, to which it undoubtedly belongs most, should also be considered. In Novi Slovenija, we will support the proposed amendment of the Environmental Protection Act with the vision that the world will gain efficiency.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u39	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Vice President. Environmental care is our primary task and the debt due to wrong decisions will be paid sooner or later by all living beings. Members of the ruling coalition propose the abolition of the Environmental Protection Council due to the austerity measures taken by the National Assembly, which provides funds for its operation. This would save around €120,000 or so for it was foreseen in the current state budget or financial plan for the 2012 National Assembly prior to the adoption of the rebalancing. The initiative was launched at the College of the President of the National Assembly or was initiated by the President of the National Assembly. Let me point out that the National Assembly or the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment of the National Assembly this April has already considered the report on the work of the Council for the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia from November 2010 to the end of last year. This was, it seems, the final consideration of the report of this non-governmental body, whose key task is to monitor the quality and protection of the environment in our country, as the ruling coalition intends to abolish it after 17 years. In Positive Slovenia, given that when the Council's report was being considered, there were no criticisms of its work, we are surprised that members of the coalition have completely changed their views within a month. Either they obey the instructions or they feel that there is no need for the professional public or that we can have empty heads. If I am not mistaken, one of them even claimed in the debate on the working body that we do not need such professional institutions because we have the Internet. If we take away the meaning of this claim, it is more than obvious that some Members of the ruling coalition do not use it and that they have not yet come to know the Environment Council website. In Positive Slovenia, we do not oppose saving or rationalisation, but we cannot support the bill because we believe that the leadership of the National Assembly or the President of the National Assembly in preparing the National Assembly's financial plan has not done everything to save enough resources for the existence of the world, despite the commitment of the National Assembly to save savings. We would like to point out that the National Assembly, as the highest legislative body, should be aware of the importance of environmental policy, which is becoming an important part of economic and development policy in the light of sustainable development. In addition, we would like to point out to the ruling coalition how it intends to ensure that, after it has abolished the Climate Change Office, when there is no longer the Sustainable Development Council, the integration between policy, the professional and interested public and non-governmental organisations on the subject. Apparently, this coalition and government don't need advice, even if they could use it. Not to mention that at the end of May more than 100 consultative and working bodies of the Government have been cut short without their members being informed at all. The abolition of certain commissions and worlds, such as the Sustainable Development Council, led by the Nobel Prizewinner Dr. Lucca Caifez Bogataj, was at least informed by their members. The abolition of the councils and commissions in which civil society has been invited also raises questions as to the attitude of this coalition towards civil society. Let us also draw attention to the symbolism or message given by such behaviour by the ruling coalition to the wider international world, the Sustainable Development Council has already been abolished, and the Environment Council will be abolished just before the upcoming United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development in Rio de Janeiro. The aim of the conference, to be held from 20 to 22 June, is to review the ongoing efforts of the international community in the area of sustainable development and to renew the political commitment to sustainable development. And it was on the subject of the green economy, which is becoming a fundamental concept for sustainable development, that the Council organised a consultation this May. In Positive Slovenia, we would like to point out that even if the law is adopted despite our opposition, it does not oblige the government and the government coalition to tell us how they intend to address current environmental and economic problems outside the competent government departments. In our opinion, the government has not sufficiently defined this issue, as it has merely stated that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment is preparing the text of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Protection and that the Ministry will also assess the reasons for the abolition of the Council in this part. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Am I done or can I still?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u41	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u42	The Council for the Protection of the Environment brings together and unites and represents the synergies of 220 NGOs that care for our environment. So let's not end the Council for Environmental Protection. All of you used to make excuses, from all the groups of the Members – excuses are not enough. What you do is not good for our environment, for once we will have to pay the price for all the mistakes we make to our environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u43	The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party has the floor. Mr. Tink Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u44	Dear Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State! For the Slovenian Democratic Party, environmental concerns are one of the fundamental values. We are aware that without a different attitude towards the environment, different consumer practices and without the socially responsible behaviour of businesses, we cannot solve all problems through the obligations imposed by legislation. The role of the State is expressed in setting such conditions so that the protection of the environment and nature for an individual becomes a development opportunity and not an obstacle burden. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we assess that the Council for Environmental Protection represents an institutional superstandard in the field of environmental protection in our country and that its work so far has not been reflected enough in the legislative regulation of environmental protection and, above all, sustainable development and in the implementation of individual environmental policies of the country and the municipalities. This may have been supported by the composition of Council members, three-quarters of which are environmental experts from the academic level and one-quarter of the representatives of NGOs. If there were also representatives of environmental policy makers and policy makers, there would be more results in the field of environmental protection and we would not be persecuted by supervisors from the European Union. In the implementation of public economic services in the field of waste management, waste water disposal and treatment, water supply has been insufficient in the past. They also have similar Sustainable Development Advisory Bodies abroad, which have representatives of the economy, municipalities, unions, employers and even farmers in addition to academic and non-governmental organisations. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we hope that the Government will provide for a similar Sustainable Development Advisory Body, which will also have a greater impact on the adoption of appropriate legislation and the implementation of environmental policies. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this law amending the law on environmental protection.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u45	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u46	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Let me say in the introduction that we will not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act in the parliamentary group, since it is the abolition of the Environmental Protection Council of the Republic of Slovenia set up by the National Assembly with a view to monitoring the state of the environment in our country, and what is very important is that the world is independent and independent in its work. So by adopting this law we would lose an important institution that warns us with professional opinions, views, analyses, what is happening in the field of the environment. This is also demonstrated by the composition of the world, as there is a whole range of most prominent experts in the world, working both in the field of natural, technical, biotechnical, social, humanistic and medical sciences. Of course, representatives of NGOs are also included in the Environmental Protection Council, so that a very wide spectrum of all those who wish to draw attention to the environmental situation in the Republic of Slovenia is truly possible. If we look at the practice of what is going on in Slovenia, we can see that the amendment of the Government Act is also a whole species of bodies within the Government that have acted in this area, and this is obviously followed by the National Assembly, which also abolishes its independent institution and that independence is the most important good, if I may say so, which the National Assembly should not be allowed out of its hands. In fact, the National Assembly has the task of overseeing the work of the Government, and this control is possible only if you have the appropriate expertise to do so. The Council for the Protection of the Environment is certainly an extremely important professional assistance for the work of Members and Members when we address the environment. Of course, the environment is a very broad term, so that we face both agricultural land and agricultural land conservation, especially the best, so for further processing in Slovenia. This is how this Council deals with food security, and one of the measures that we now perceive in the procedure of the National Assembly is also linked to the fact that it can be severely re-emerged in the area of the best agricultural land. The Environmental Protection Council is, of course, the one who could also make an argument to the National Assembly, why it is bad, or even if any element was found, why it is good. In addition, I think it is indisputable that in the National Assembly we take almost every mandate, almost every year, the intervention measures to be taken due to the fact that the consequences of the natural damage from year to year are increasing and the damage is increasing. This also points to the fact that changes in the environment in Slovenia are reflected in the way that these consequences are dangerous both for people and for property, and all of this results in very large financial consequences. When we compare the amount of €90,000 that the National Assembly is supposed to save with the abolition of the Environmental Protection Council, the damage that we are also causing due to inadequately adopted laws allowing for interventions and construction in areas where, if we respect the expertise, we would not do so, this amount is really negligible. We therefore propose an amendment at this stage of the National Assembly, proposing that this law should not enter into force until 1 January 2013, if there is already such a high belief in the National Assembly that this Council should be abolished, because by then, we are confident that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will also draw up a more extensive law or a change to the law on environmental protection, in which we want to define the status of the Council for the Protection of the Environment. By adopting our amendment, we can also actively monitor developments on the government side and the solution to the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u47	The word is given by the Group of Citizens, mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! In the Civil Gazette, we are initiating amendments to the Environmental Protection Act, by which we abolish the Environmental Protection Council, which was established in 1993. We would like to point out that we do not claim that this institution has carried out its tasks inadequately, but that all the formal powers given to the world are purely consultative in nature and, as we have seen, in 18 years of operation of this world, civil society itself has so advanced that in Slovenia we no longer need such an advisory body within the National Assembly, which, by the way, is of a kind. In particular, the Environmental Protection Council is the only independent and independent organisation set up by the National Assembly and at the same time provides it with the means of action from its budget. In doing so, we can ask ourselves why we do not have a world for youth, a world for entrepreneurship, and there are many areas where this logic might require us from the point of view of our society. The fact is that we have not yet had nearly 250 NGOs operating in the field of environment, societies, institutions and institutions in 1993. In addition, for the first time in 2009, statuses were granted to NGOs operating in the field of environmental protection in the public interest. Article 155 of the Environmental Protection Act gives them the opportunity to participate in certain procedures under the law, for example in the issue of environmental permits. He's got 14 organizations. Furthermore, under the Nature Conservation Act 26 companies have the status of a society acting in the public interest in nature conservation. Such companies shall have the right to represent the interests of nature conservation in all administrative and judicial proceedings. Therefore, the fear of those who claim that the care of the environment after the end of the world in Slovenia will be suppressed on the sidelines is completely exaggerated. The next aspect that we want to highlight is the fact that we are not losing anything by abolishing the world, since the world is made up of 15 members, of which 12 are environmental experts and experts proposed by the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts and University, and three representatives of NGOs in the field of environmental protection. Therefore, according to the composition of the Council, its members will continue to deal with the field of environmental protection and contribute significantly to the added value of this area, as they are professionally engaged and are mostly financed by public funds. We are of the opinion in the Civil Gazette that the country must first save with itself and less with its citizens. Today's amendment to the Environmental Protection Act is a step in this direction. We stop the consultative body from remaining more for NGOs in the field of environmental protection and therefore we will support the members of the National List of Amendments to the Environmental Protection Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u49	The text is given by the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Roman Zveglic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u50	Have a good day to all present! I hope that when our meeting is over, the weather will be a little more beautiful. The proposed amendment to the Environmental Protection Act is undoubtedly one of the laws that we make into a category of elephant flies, and it should cost what it wants. However, this is not the fault of the bill's proponents, but if I may use this term, in particular some of the gentlemen on my left and some of the other gentlemen who do not choose the means to strike through the coalition, which our country, its environment and its natural resources will bring them to their last resting place, and citizens and citizens will only be allowed to cry and grind their teeth if I express themselves in writing. I apologize if I may have been a bit grave and dark, but my performances come from the words of some of the debaters on the working body, from which this can be understood. In fact, if we abolish the Council for the Protection of the Environment, which is an essential substance of the changes in the proposed novel, environmental and nature protection will remain only an abstract concept that our descendants will learn if we have them, of course, in the subject of history. Of course, it's not like that yet. I find that in the stream that runs across my farm, the crabs, the fish that are caught with joy, which were not before — the herds, I mean, they were just fish. Thus, the environmental situation is much better than it was 30 years ago, even in the waters in my area. The Environmental Protection Council was established in 1993 on the basis of an old law on environmental protection. Its key task is to monitor the state of the environment and should also be a link between the legislation and the executive branch of the authorities, on the one hand, and the professional institutions and NGOs, on the other. The financing of the world from its inception until 2001 was at the shoulders of the National Assembly and then, for 9 years, it was transferred to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, after the adoption of the amendment to the Environmental Protection Act of 2009, the financing of the Council became the National Assembly again with the argument that it was more hygienic. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree with the drafters of the Law on Environmental Protection that the proposal to abolish the world is not due to its inadequate operation or lack of confidence in expertise, nor is it any political revenge against members of the world. It is simply one of the coalition measures that seeks to rationalise and reduce budgetary expenditure and will have no negative environmental consequences. In Slovenia, we have about 250 NGOs that deal with the field of environmental protection and are either way financed from the state budget. In addition, more than 700 people are employed in ministries and bodies working in the environment. Members of the Slovenian People's Party believe that the abolition of the Environmental Protection Council will not result in the effects that I have highlighted at the outset. We believe that when the new world is no longer defined in the Environmental Protection Act, it can become one of the most important NGOs that can link all key environmental protection factors with its academic authority and expertise. It can be organised following the example of some other NGOs, which, although not established by law, can successfully protect the interests of Slovenian citizens and citizens. In addition, according to the example of the other expert councils, a special expert and advisory body of the Government could also be established to cover the area of environmental protection. We have, for example, the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Persons with Disabilities, the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth, the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Student Issues, the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Agriculture and Rural Development, of which I was a member. I therefore believe that the Government, with increased communication with the public concerned, could do more to help prepare legislation immediately at the beginning of the adoption of the legislation and not only when it comes to the National Assembly. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed amendment to the law on environmental protection.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u51	We have completed the relocation of the positions of the members of the groups. We are moving on to the debate on the Article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of 13 June 2012. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. I'm asking you to sign up. It's time for your application. I find that four have been reported as debaters. The first one has the word "magic." Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Social Democrats with the amendment propose to apply the amendments to the law as from 1 January 2013. Members of the Civil Code of this amendment will not be supported because we do not see any concrete solution in this which would be good for the National Assembly or for our citizens. We note that the Minister himself has powers to judge this as a good solution, to form a similar consultative body, such as the Environmental Protection Council, and has such a legal basis in the 41st Article of the Regulation on the Internal Organisation and the Systematisation of Jobs. This solution is much simpler, faster and rational. Therefore, we believe that there is no basis for us to create such a world as a systemic solution in laws at all, and therefore we do not actually see any need to prolong it now. Nevertheless, I would have touched yet another aspect of the functioning of this Council, as a member of the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, and I have asked Mr President of this Council twice if, despite all that, although they are not such enormous costs for the functioning of this Council, I could explain the structure of these costs. That is what the money was spent on: whether it was fees, wages, printing brochures, because this is not evident in the annual report of this world. I quote his reply: "As far as saving is concerned, fourteen days before the action began, I wrote to the President of the National Assembly a letter in which I said we are aware that savings are needed, and I ask for a meeting. The meeting was one day after the meeting of the leaders of the groups. You had the opportunity to obtain information prior to this meeting and I also tabled a proposal for a revised financial plan for €40,000 at this meeting." That's part of the answer. End of story. This was the response of the President of this Council when I, as a member of the Committee, took the initiative to present to the Committee the structure of the costs for which the money, 100,000 euros, was spent. That is how the Members of the Civil Code, personally and also, unfortunately, did not convince me to vote against the abolition of this Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u53	Mr Srečko Meh has the floor to prepare Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic. However, I would kindly ask all Members and Members to focus on Article 6 of the bill and the amendment to Article 6.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u54	Good-bye! Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you accept the amendment to Article 6. At first, it seems to me in some way strange or unfair to cut off a world that we have established, our predecessors, on the necks and noses, immediately. That doesn't seem right and it's not right. If I say first that we're working out of an elephant fly, and if this comparison is good, we're going to make an elephant fly. This will be done by putting an end to the Environmental Protection Council and putting it somewhere that we could have done peacefully and putting it next to 250 organisations dealing with it. It is too responsible to be told in the National Assembly today that the government should do so. Ladies and gentlemen, this was the body or council of this National Assembly, which, for us, addressed an extremely important topic not in the field of politics, but in the field of the profession, which was composed of such professions as those involved. Here, in the National Assembly, we were able to obtain the positions we needed in our work. And if we say that there are fish in the stream now, then we must now wave over this Environmental Protection Council, because it is one of those who had support in the National Assembly at the back, on the basis of which they could make the right decisions to protect the environment. I cannot believe that responsible people today can talk about the fact that this world that we have established has been set aside by 250 civil society organisations, with all due respect for this civil society. So it seems to me that it is very easy to say that the government, which has this right and can do so, will do so — why has it not already done so? Today, we are giving up the tools to take our steps in the field of environmental protection or in the procedures that we need to take. Ladies and gentlemen, accept this amendment because we will have time with it to reconsider by the new year, and I call this time on the Slovenian government and also on you, respected coalition partners, to consider abolishing something that you do not have an adequate remuneration for. Perhaps one of the two hundred and fifty environmental organizations is an adequate warning. But I think it's very easy for respected professors, environmental experts who make up members of the world, to simply say thank you very much – and that is now. The President's answer to the financial question. If I were to be asked, in another function, purely operationally how the finances are distributed, then I would ask the one who is also dealing with these finances operationally. It is not necessarily necessary for the President to know everything about finance, but it is right that he is polite to be properly polite. But, ladies and gentlemen, if we are not polite, if we are not respectful of all those who cooperate with us, then let us not expect respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u55	Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Of course, I will personally support the proposed amendment, because I think this will enable the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to better prepare itself and create a new concept that will be no worse than it was in the past. However, I cannot help but say in my implementation that the Council for the Protection of the Environment is merely a consultative body; and this is exactly what we need; more consultation, more knowledge, because no one has died of knowledge and has not even been sick, but more knowledge has been healthier and can also care for their family and their environment. Why don't we have a world for youth, the world for entrepreneurship has said Please! [[...]] Because the concern for the environment is over everything, over all of us. If we destroy the environment, we will destroy all of us, all of our youth and entrepreneurship, as previously pointed out by the representative of the opinion of the Democratic List! We must thank the Council for Environmental Protection, together with NGOs, for the high level of awareness of Slovenia and the Slovenians towards our environment. And to conclude, let me read a communication from the Council for the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia from the May Council: although we are at the heart of interlinked international crises: financial, economic, energy, food. Unsustainable consumption and production patterns and unsustainable use of resources may be an opportunity to establish different sustainable patterns of development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I take it that we are done with the debate, or I ask if anyone else wants to discuss it? We still have time. I can still see the desire for a debate. I'm opening the application. Mr Samo Bevk, I ask for a debate on Article 6 and the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Of course, I will support the amendment proposed by our Group of Members to buy time to consider this radical measure. The fact is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia established the Environmental Protection Council on 30 November 1993. The legal basis was Article 39 of the Environmental Protection Act and this Council, which began to work very actively in May 1994, played an important role in this area in the Republic of Slovenia. After 18 years of work, we're shutting him down. I don't think that's a good move. I even propose that we reject this law, not even that we find time by the end of the year and find another form, but that we should in fact reject this law and maintain the functioning of the Environmental Protection Council in the future. The structure and members of this world are also highly respected experts, and I think that the Environmental Protection Council could do much more to benefit our country and to protect the environment in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u59	Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The decision on the amendment will be made in 30 minutes in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this item of the agenda, and I also interrupt the fourth meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 3.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u60	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue the adjourned session of the assembly. We will vote, so I recommend you to sit down. Please check the functioning of the voting devices. We continue with the adjourned 15th item on the agenda, which is the 2011 report on the Commission's work on the supervision of intelligence and security services with a proposal for conclusions. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for conclusions. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 78 votes against 1. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the conclusions are taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Environmental Protection following a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of 13 June 2012. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 6 of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 46. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have thus concluded the consideration of the draft law in the context of the reduced procedure, the second reading. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u61	Thank you very much, President. I cannot help but overlook the fact that, by amending the Environmental Protection Act, we are abolishing the Environmental Protection Council. But we are in the fifth place in the world by environmental and environmental quality and the first by the Global Security Index. We have the privilege of having our Environment Commissioner, Mr Janez Potočnik, in Brussels. Now that we have excellent conditions to become a leading and model country in achieving sustainable development, we are abolishing the Environmental Protection Council, which is still highly deserving to achieve such high environmental results on a global scale. Therefore, I will not support the bill and in Positive Slovenia we will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u62	Thank you. We are moving on to a vote on the bill. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 33. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Roads by Emergency Procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government have not informed me that the proposal for a law would be inconsistent and that we can vote. An explanation of the voice? Mrs. Renata Brunskole, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I support the harmonisation of the law in this proposal with the European Directive. Such a proposal by the Roads Act, which would regulate the area at home, is almost without the cooperation of the profession in order to introduce a minimum standard of spatial documentation, i.e. by introducing only DIIP, an identification document of an investment project, instead of accelerating the adoption of laws both on the construction of buildings, on the protection of the environment and on spatial planning – this is unacceptable to us or to me, so I will abstain in voting on such a bill. Let me also point out that the Legislative and Legal Service has warned that the derogation from the system regime reduces the transparency and internal consistency of the legal regime in force. This is the principle of legal certainty under Article 2 of the Constitution, it is a matter of overlying rules and, interestingly, in the time of austerity measures, the amendment of the law is also problematic with regard to the use of public finances. In fact, in road and road works, the scope of the works is not defined, even the particulars are deleted, which means that we have doubts and I have doubts about the control and transparency of the use of public funds. Therefore, I cannot really support such a proposal for a law, especially in the workplace, as regards public finances and interventions into space.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u65	In its name and on behalf of the Group of Members. In Positive Slovenia we advocate a progressive and fair country, so we support advanced solutions, but not injustice. In Positive Slovenia, we support the transposition of this directive of the European Union, and we will refrain from doing so with regard to some of these, for us to be under-thinking and sub-normated, a solution or a simplification of some of the institutions of the law. That's why we're gonna let you vote your own marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u66	Thank you. We are moving on to a vote on the bill. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Religious Freedom Do you have a procedural proposal? Please, mag. Majda Potrat, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u67	Dear Mr. President! On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that you give us half an hour's rest for consultation in the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u68	Thank you. That's what I'm gonna do. According to practice, we will first check if anyone wants to explain their voice, and then you get this interruption. First, I will read to you the decision we will vote on. The decision is as follows: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Religious Freedom is appropriate for further consideration. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I'm opening applications. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Michael Prevc will explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will not vote in favour of this decision for a simple reason, because we believe that the Law on Religious Freedom, as proposed, is neither necessary nor compatible with the stated objectives and principles set out in your explanation by the applicants. Another time. We do not support this law because it was not the law which was actually intended for them to take part in the drafting of the new law. These are representatives of the largest churches in Slovenia, these are religious communities, this is the Council of Christian Churches in Slovenia, this is the Islamic Community in the Republic of Slovenia, all expressing concern about the proposal of this law and agreeing and supporting the existing law. Third time. We do not support this law because this proposed law significantly reduces the standards of human rights protection achieved. Fourth time. Nor do we support this law because it seems to us that it is not the right time to open ideological debates that would have happened if the law went forward. Fifth. Nor do we support this amendment because the Government does not support it either, as it is preparing a new law that will bring the law into line with a constitutional court decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u70	On behalf of the Ambassadorial Group of Positive Slovenia, Mrs Tamara Vont.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u71	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, in Positive Slovenia, we will support the amendment of the Law on Religious Freedom: because it is precisely the novelty of this law that is essentially a step forward in religious freedom; because the amendment of the law is the one that allows rights to be equal for all, regardless of how much religious community is involved; therefore – as I also understand as the work of the National Assembly and also as the work of Members and Members – to fill the legal voids that have arisen after the Constitutional Court has issued a decision to point out constitutional inconsistencies in the existing law and therefore the new law is necessary. Religious freedom is the human right of every individual and the novel is in no way a violation. Financing, forms of funding, ways of financing religious communities do not fall within any human rights framework; the Constitution is clear about this; it is clear to constitutional judges; it is a clear constitutional provision and, in fact, it is foolish to speak about this novelty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u72	Thank you. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The New Slovenia Group will vote against the proposal or reject the bill. There are more reasons. They're very heavy. I'll count just a few. First time. It follows from the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and from the international instruments which are European standards that the State must lead with churches and religious communities an open, transparent and regular dialogue, which means that the proposal of the law under consideration should be in line with the Slovenian churches and religious communities, which unfortunately is not clear from the explanation of the bill. That is why the proposal for a law deserves to be rejected. Another time. The concept of the bill is based on the wrong understanding of religious freedom referred to in Article 41 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to Article 16, paragraph 2, of the Constitution of Slovenia. Third time. The proposal for a law interferes with the principle of the free functioning of religious communities referred to in Article 7, paragraph 2, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, so that freedom of operation of religious communities is limited and this is drastic. And the fourth time. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is preparing a constitutionally corrected and, according to European standards, a new proposal for a law on religious freedom. And it's just a conversational curiosity: this unfortunate bill was not described by our esteemed colleague Borut Pahor. My conclusion; of course, this is what smart presidential candidates who want to connect do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u74	On behalf of the Group of Members, Mag. Majda Potrat, although it is somewhat illogical, if you requested an interruption in order to form a position. Then you already have it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The bill was not signed by two parliamentary groups but was signed by 14 Members and Members of Parliament and could then be reviewed to see which of the members and members of the parliamentary groups under the proposal is not signed. This cannot be an argument for us to think ahead of time about how someone will vote. Our parliamentary group has announced support for this law. Another time. This is about the European comparability of the law. Yeah. The law follows the General Convention on Human Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights, the Lisbon Charter, and introduces what has already been adopted and transposed into Slovenian law in two directives, so that it is not possible to talk about the non-European nature of this law. Third time. In view of the repeal of individual articles, it is impossible to implement this existing law, since the criteria for the registration of religious communities are deleted and new religious communities cannot be registered by deleting the first paragraph of Article 13. Full freedom of expression and freedom of speech has been established, and it has been established that no one is arbitrating about what is to be and what is not to be in the content and acts of internal organisation of a particular religious or world-level group, but, in full respect for the separation of the State and the church referred to in Article 7, is left to each entity to decide for itself how this relationship will be governed. In the country of Slovenia there is no State church or State religious community, so it is under the Constitution the duty to ensure equal treatment of all churches, religious communities and secular associations, whether or not they are members of that group. The principle of equality, as well as the principle of proportionality, are two principles which are constantly highlighted by the Constitutional Court's decision. I think that's just a few reasons and let me say one last. The public debate on the draft law was organised at the Office of Religious Communities in the previous term, but if some of the largest churches did not want to participate in the public debate, because they had the view they now expressed that the law in force is purely good, then you cannot force anyone to engage in dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u76	Thank you. An explanation of the voice in your own name, please, whoever wants it. I'm opening the application. Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Religious Freedom at first reading, which means that the bill can be supplemented, consulted and included by the rest of the public concerned. It is the elimination of constitutional inconsistencies, legal voids and registration of religious communities in Slovenia. Major damage in Slovenia, mostly in Maribor, was done by the financial holding companies of the Maribor diocese Zvon 1 and Zvon 2; also in the White landscape as owner of the company Beta Metlika, which was sometimes the concept of the textile industry. The company's exhausted. Of the more than 2,000 employees now there are only a few more than 100. And let me say that among these people, among the many unemployed now in the White Land, there are certainly faithful people. I will support the bill in the welfare of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u78	Mr. Roman Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u79	Thank you for your word, President. I will support the marriage because, of course, it is not a restriction on religious freedom. It is indeed the elimination of unconstitutionality in the area of financing and the establishment of religious communities. But it also goes on, and it repeatedly highlights the right side of the political spectrum, for justice. Yesterday, by listing the privileged position in society, which the Roman Catholic Church actually has in Slovenia, I tried to show you that the Slovenian Church has an extremely large estate and that on the one hand, the National Assembly without a handful of shame and some great embarrassment interferes with citizens and citizens by denying their rights. Employees in public administration who have families, small, large or single, we reduce wages. On the other hand, the Roman Catholic Church is bathing in money, setting up businesses and, with its wrong business moves, bringing more than 66,000 shareholders into despair, and has done damage to this country amounting to EUR 700 million, because this money will be paid back by us taxpayers, because we will have to recover this debt, which they owe to New Ljubljana Bank and New Credit Bank Maribor. If we take it from someone – today we are not talking about anything other than treating everything equally in this country and I do not understand and see why the Church would not share the fate of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u80	Mrs. Tamara Vont.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u81	Thank you. It's really about justice. It is that this country is like believing, to believing, to believing, to believing, to having some religious belief, to others having another religious belief, and this novel certainly helps. Perhaps it is true, as Mr Horvath said, that this law is not modern and European, because if it were, then the Church would pay taxes, as it pays in Italy and as it pays elsewhere in Europe. That may be why this law is really not European and really modern, but at least one step towards eliminating constitutional inconsistencies. And once again, I stress: this is our job. On the other hand, it is right — but one day I must respond to the many observations I have heard in the last two days through various media, as well as live. It is also right for the Church to share the fate of everyone so that the Church can share the fate of the famous ZUJF. And that seems only right to me, because this country, which we all talk about many times, should be the same for all. It's not. Far from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u82	Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u83	Thank you for your word. First, I would say that it is to harmonise articles that are not in accordance with the Constitution; hence, to harmonise something that is not in accordance with our Constitution. Therefore, it should not be a problem who proposed this law. Even though this is a position, I think that we should take matters seriously and that we can, we have already discussed this in our Group of Members, so that in committee proceedings, in the debate, we can complement this law before the National Assembly and shape it in the way that Members will decide. I think it is our responsibility for Members of the National Assembly, but after two years to really reconcile what the Constitutional Court has imposed on us. I would recommend to all Members that they read this decision of the Constitutional Court, where things are very well-founded, including with regard to the financing of the church. Finally, since I am no longer allowed time, I would say that I will also support this bill on behalf of the welfare of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u84	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? If you don't, I'm gonna stop this session now. I'd just like to ask you, mag. Spending because you requested this interruption on behalf of the parliamentary group, how much do you need to consult? [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Good. So I interrupt the session for half an hour and proceed at 17.35.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u85	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our adjourned session. First, I would like to ask the leader of the Group of Social Democrats if, after a consultation, he might wish to present the position of the Group of Members? Please, Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, President. After a successful consultation in the parliamentary group, I can say that we will support the law and, of course, we also hope for support in all other parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u87	Thank you very much. We therefore vote on the proposal for a conclusion that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Religious Freedom is appropriate for further consideration. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 47. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the decision has not been adopted and that the legislative procedure on the proposal for a law has thus been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the National Consumer Programme 2012-2017. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of 13 July 2012. Amendment of SDS, National Gazette, SLS, DeSUS and New Slovenia to Chapter 5. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 57 votes against 27. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have thus concluded the vote on the amendment and are moving on to a full decision on the motion for a resolution. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the proposal would be inconsistent with the amendments adopted on the home labour body. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 63 votes against 1. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of agenda item 14, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the amount of the appropriations belonging to the individual political party from the State budget in 2012. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 84 votes against none. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. 17.a point — Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member and the election of a member of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia for consideration. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to resolve a member of Mr Roman Jakič's intelligence and security services in the Commission and to elect a mag as a member. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with Article 10(2) of the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services, a decision will be adopted and a Member elected if it is voted on by the majority of the members of the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 4. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision. We move on to the 17b item on the agenda, this is the candidate list for the members of the Council of Justice. On the basis of Article 131 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 20, paragraph 4, and Article 21, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Courts by letter of 23 May 2012 to the National Assembly, the President of the Republic of Danilo Türk submitted a candidate list for members of the Council with the proposal to elect three members of the proposed five candidates for members or members of the Council of Justice. The proposed candidates are: Prof. Dr. Polonca Končar, Prof. Dr. Matjaž Tratnik, Prof. Dr. Marko Novak, Mr. Bojan Podgoršek and Mr. Marjan Feguš. We also invited the Office of the President of the Republic, the representatives of the Office are not present. The candidate list has been examined [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] [[...]] Excuse me, would you like a word? Good. The candidate list was dealt with by the Mandate-Electorial Commission – I looked at the Government's candidate list area as the mandate-voluntary commission as the parent working body and reported in writing to the National Assembly. There is no application for discussion. We are moving on to a vote on the Candidate List for the members of the Council of Justice. The first paragraph of Article 21 of the Law on Courts provides that the number proposed on the candidate list must be greater than the number of candidates elected, but not more than twice as many as the number of members elected. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 21 of the Law on Courts, the National Assembly shall decide on the candidates by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the secret ballot shall be chaired by a committee composed of the Presidents and four Members and Members elected by the National Assembly. Members of this committee have sent me proposals. These are Mrs Janja Klasinc – Positive Slovenia, Mr Zvonko Lah – Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Matevž Frangež – Social Democrats, Mr Janez Vasle – Nova Slovenija. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Mr Matjaž Plevelj, Deputy Secretary-General, will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Perhaps someone opposed the proposed composition of the commission? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 84 votes against none. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the commission has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a vote shall be delivered to each Member and to the Member by each Member to the Chair's table and shall state his name and surname. A vote shall be taken by surrounding the number in front of the name of the candidate or candidate for whom the Member or Member is voting. He is voting for three candidates and therefore the vote, which will include more than three candidates or numbers in front of more than three candidates, will be invalid. Also invalid is the unfulfilled voice and voice, from which there is no clear indication of the will of the electorate or Member of Parliament. If there are three or less numbers on the ballot, but the will is not clearly visible in all the surrounding numbers, the ballot shall be considered valid, but only in the part where the will is visible. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 196 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, those three candidates or candidates for which the majority of Members will vote, who will give valid votes and who will receive the maximum number of votes, will be elected. If the three candidates do not receive the required majority in the first vote, a second vote shall be taken to vote on the number of candidates to be elected. There is, of course, a vote on those candidates who will receive the largest number of votes in the first vote. We will vote as usual in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will put the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be on the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Please, Members of Parliament and Members, who will assist me in the vote to gather in room 217 and take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 5.50 p.m. and will last until 18.05 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament and Members to assist me in the voting to meet again in room 217 for the counting of votes. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 6.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u88	We're moving on to the session. We are moving to a closed-circuit session, which is the election of the members of the Council of Justice. I will read to you the minutes on the outcome of the vote for three members or members of the Council of Justice: The vote was held at the Assembly on 14 June 2012, 86 votes were distributed, all 86 votes were cast, one vote was invalid, 85 votes were valid, which means that the candidate had to win at least 43 votes and of course those three who received the most votes. The candidates received the following number of votes: Prof. Dr. Matjaž Tratnik 33, Prof. Dr. Marko Novak 52, Prof. Dr. Polonca Končar 14, Bojan Podgoršek 78, Marjan Feguš 76 votes. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Bojan Podgoršek, Marjan Feguš and Prof. Marko Novak were elected as members of the Council of Justice by a majority of the votes cast by the Members. I congratulate the elected members and wish them much success in managing their work, while thanking the members and members of the Council of Justice, who are due at the end of this month. We are at point c, this is the proposal for the election of candidates and candidates for judicial office at the courts of the District Court of Ljubljana. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal on the election of candidates and candidates for judicial office to the courts of the District Courts in the District Court of Ljubljana. The proposals were addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which submitted a written report to the National Assembly and submitted proposals for conclusions. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposals for decisions. I shall put to the vote first the motion for a decision on the election of Mr Andrej Breznik to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the judge has been elected. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Ana Koprivc Osolnik to the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I find that the decision has been taken and that the judge has been elected. I also put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Vesna Drvarič to the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 72 votes against 4. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against four.]] I note that this decision is also adopted and that Mrs Vesna Drovič is elected. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mrs Staše Dolenc Lazar to the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. 82 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I note that this decision has been adopted and that Mrs Staša Dolenc Lazar has been elected judge. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the State Election Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The panellists are not present; we are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Dr. Bojan Škof as a member of the National Election Commission. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 42. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member and the appointment of a member of the Council for a public sector wage system. The draft decision was tabled by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u89	Thank you for your word. We will not support the proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member and the nomination of a member of the Council for a public sector wage system in the Group of Social Democrats. This is a system of public sector wages, and it is probably more useful and better to have representatives of both the opposition and the positions involved and, therefore, in our opinion, to have better solutions for the public sector wage system. In addition, this is a case of early discharge of colleague Bojan Kontić, who is also very experienced in this area, as he has also been a member of the National Assembly for many years, a mayor and a very well-known mayor. The arguments that we might also want to hear from those who propose a settlement, whether it is a candidate who has performed this function so far, which has not had sufficient experience in this area, or whether there are other shortcomings, we would like to hear, but in this procedure, which was attended and conducted by the Mandate-voluntary Commission, we have never actually heard any indications that colleague Bojan Kontic would not do his work properly. Clearly, this is a purely political motivation for this change and the early appointment of other members, but of course it comes from the kind of ruling SDS party. Of course, this is also one of those specific cases in which the President of the Government cannot argue that it is a substitute because someone has not done his job well or because he has not been professional, but it is certainly a pure political recruitment. In this case, too, we can prove that the statements made by the President of the Government on the question of parliament do not, of course, hold that they always employ only quality, tested professional staff. In this case, we can prove that this is not the case. Let me also say that, in the previous term, when such cases occurred, we respected the fact that a mandate had first expired and then replaced by another one on the basis of the procedure. In this case, however, it is a matter of early resolution, which really shows that the wage system in the public sector is not something that, for example, should be agreed with the opposition or experts who know this area but do not come from one political field. I repeat this once again that the Group of Social Democrats will not support the decision on discharge and thus not the appointment of a new Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-14-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u90	Thank you. On behalf of the Ambassadorial Group of Positive Slovenia, Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Don't you? Good. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mag. Majda Potter. You don't want to? Mr. Janko Weber? Probably not. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that will resolve Mr Bojan Kontic as a representative of the State Assembly in the Public Sector Wage System Council. As a member of the Public Sector Wage System Council, Mrs Sonja Ramšak is called. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 34. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 34.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the President of the State Audit Commission. The draft decision was tabled by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. No one's registered. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Members and Members are also not nominated for debate. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision by which Mrs Miriam Ravnikar Šurk of 31. Seven. 2012 discharge the duties of the President of the State Audit Commission. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 3. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. On the proposal of the Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Isle of Man on the exchange of information in relation to tax matters with the Protocol. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. He reported to the National Assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the amendments cannot be tabled at the meeting of the assembly, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against 2. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the law has been adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 11. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Isle of Man on the avoidance of double taxation of individuals. The proposal was submitted by the Government. It was discussed by the Committee on Foreign Policy and the National Assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. Nor has the mother body adopted any amendments, so we cannot table amendments at the assembly meeting and move on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 79 votes against 1.) [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Guernsey on the exchange of information in relation to tax matters with the Protocol. The proposer is the Government, the home working body of the Committee on Foreign Policy. There are no applications for discussion. The mother's working body has not adopted any amendments and we can move on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 79 votes against 1. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item — Confirmation of the official Clearance of Criminal Code. Officially revised text was prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service and confirmed by the National Assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the Penal Code is officially revised. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text. I'm closing this agenda item. I also conclude the fourth session of the National Assembly. Thank you, and I'll see you tomorrow at an extraordinary session.
