ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! I begin the fourth meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, Roberto Battelli, Dr. Göncz László in mag. Matthew Tonin. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the first item of the agenda of the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, to the 17th item of the agenda of the President of the Council of Justice, Dr Mir Cerar, and the representatives of the Government to all other items of the agenda. Nice to meet you! We are moving on to the agenda of the 4th regular meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Monday 4 June 2012, with reference. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of individual items from the agenda and enlargement proposals, but I would inform you that I have received a request for re-decision on the procedures. At the College on 4 June 2012, we decided that the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of Loteria Slovenije and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Agricultural Lands should be dealt with in a simplified manner. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure, the Group of Members proposed that this decision be decided again at the meeting of the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 142(2) of the Rules of Procedure, we decide on this at the first next meeting of the National Assembly, i.e. at this meeting, without discussion and without vote, only the applicant may present his proposal. In this way, the National Assembly will address those requirements in accordance with the timetable immediately at the beginning, even before the parliamentary issues of 1A and 1B items of the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received by reference to these two amendments under points 1.A and 1.B. We're moving on to decision-making. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Weber, this is coming. Under 1.A and 1.B of course you will have the opportunity to present. We will now vote only on the agenda. Please check the functioning of the voting devices. We will vote on the agenda. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. If there is a problem with the voting devices, we will repeat the vote. I interrupt for as long as it takes to technically verify the functioning of the voting apparatus.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u2	We're moving on. The services have informed me that the voting devices have worked, that there may have been a nuisance on your part in stopping the cards, so I can only determine the outcome of the vote. There are 72 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 9. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it that the agenda for the 4th meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We are moving on to the 1st A-point of the agenda, which is to respond to the demands of the Group of Members and Members, to the decision of the National Assembly on the decision of the College of Presidents of the State to propose a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the ownership of the lotteries of Slovenia after a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 17th meeting on 4 June 2012 that this proposal for a law should be dealt with in a simplified manner and, pursuant to Article 21, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure, 29 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Sam Bevk requested that the National Assembly decide again on this matter. I now give the floor to Mr Jank Weber to explain the request on behalf of the applicant. Please, Mr. Weber. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u3	Thank you for your word. We are making a request for re-decision on the decision of the College on the grounds that we believe that the Rules of Procedure have been consistently misused, especially when we are discussing procedures that deal with a reduced procedure for dealing with an individual law. Accordingly, the Government will write down, or some other coalition applicants, if they make the law, that it is less difficult to change and, of course, the reduced procedure is justified. In our opinion, the procedure relating to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia has also been adopted at the College in contravention of the Rules of Procedure. There is no way we can understand the content of a law that dramatically interferes with the operation of the Sports Foundation. Last but not least, it is the distribution of funds within the competence of the Foundation and where the sport sphere has so far had a greater impact, and after the adoption of this law, the decision becomes practically the Ministry responsible for sport. So far, only three representatives have been appointed by the professional council of the Ministry of Sport to the Sport Foundation Council, and after this new law there are 14 representatives of all 17. I think that this relationship is already a valid enough argument to hold a broader debate in the National Assembly, why it is good that politics also decides on sport, why it is not good for athletes or sports organisations to try to agree on the use of funds collected from Lottery Slovenia. It is precisely this change, the support of sport or the interference of politics in sport, that is certainly a topic that cannot be dealt with in the short run, but in the normal process where I can actually, at least so I hope, we hear from the Government why it is necessary to transfer even employees from the Sport Foundation to the Ministry, why it is necessary to change the composition of the Sport Foundation so drastically, rather than that we have not had the highest achievements in Slovenia so far precisely because the policy has minimally been involved in sport. Without excellence, we might even understand that something needs to be done through policy, but the fact is that sports organisations are functioning, that they have always been able to agree on the allocation of funds, and it did not require much political will to be allocated. This is, in our view, an unreasonable intervention into the current system of financing sports organisations and everything that has been agreed within the Sports Foundation. President, let me just ask in the middle whether I have these five minutes for both marriages or just one. Just for this one, the first one. Thank you. So truly, respected colleagues and colleagues, we think it would be more appropriate to agree on a changed way of financing sports organisations, however, within harmonised broader procedures, rather than following a reduced procedure, because we are practically closing the debate at one meeting and going to each other, I hope that with bitter taste, what has been done has not been sufficiently thought out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u4	Thank you, colleague Weber. There is no debate and no explanation of vote on this request, so we can move on to a decision. We will decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Property Conversion of Loteria Slovenije is being considered following a reduced procedure. If this decision is not adopted, the National Assembly will consider a proposal for a law following a regular procedure. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 34. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the decision has been adopted, and we will therefore consider the proposal for a law in short notice. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to 1B of the agenda, which is at the request of the Group of Members and Members, that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of Presidents of the State to propose a law amending the Law on Agricultural Land Defence after a shorter procedure. All information on the decision taken by the College and the application for re-decision are identical to that of the previous law, so I would like to give the floor to Mr Janko Webr straight away to present this request on behalf of the applicant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u5	Thanks again for saying that. If we talked earlier about a law that could have distributed ten million euros, the Agricultural Lands Act is about even more difficult changes. This amendment, which has been tabled, effectively completely blocks the implementation of the existing agricultural land law, which had the primary task of maintaining the highest quality agricultural land for further processing and thus ensuring food security in Slovenia. This novelty, which has been tabled, speaks of the fact that all compensation for the change of destination or compensation for the change in the destination of agricultural land is being paid in full, and this applies to those who already have the status where construction is possible today, as well as to those which we will or will use for construction in the future. The fact is that in Slovenia, at least until 2009, we have already converted 93 000 hectares of processed agricultural areas into walled areas, of which almost 23 000 fields and gardens, according to known data. The fact is that in Slovenia we have far the smallest proportion of working areas per inhabitant, a total of 866 square meters falls away this instant per inhabitant. However, according to the criteria that they also address within the European Union, self-sustainment in a given country should have between 2 000 500 and 3 000 square metres of the best agricultural areas per capita. So we're way below that. And just as all the developed countries are talking about actually introducing a measure that is no longer possible to intervene in agricultural land, we are releasing the building blocks of agricultural land and thereby endangering our food security. We have repeatedly pointed out that even for some state's independence and sovereignty, it is worse than losing your own army. Perhaps someone who would pay him well, even more easily, would protect you, more effectively than if you ran out of food. If someone just stops your food supply because you can't produce it yourself, it's the worst thing a nation can do. The solutions needed in this law to bring us closer to the problems of those investors who are supposedly willing to invest today, as well as those young families who are also thinking about unloading the payment of compensation for the application of the change in the destination of the agricultural land to the building, are the reasons why we should discuss in the National Assembly after a regular procedure, but not after a shorter one, where it is actually possible to close down, as stated in this amendment, that the compensation for the change in the purpose of the agricultural land to a walled land in Slovenia is no longer paid, both for the return and not for the future. This resource was meant to reach out, because in some exceptional cases this law actually allows for intervention in agricultural land, but better quality than it is, is more expensive, and this is due to the reason that we can then provide substitutable areas through these means, which also allow us to re-sustain food in the future. Above all, we must be aware that our best agricultural areas are at the same time also in aquifers and more than we will shrink the highest quality surfaces, and if we want to produce enough food, we will also have to treat these plants with chemical means, which means that we also pollute drinking water. So not only can we run out of adequate food safety and quality, but we can also lose adequate water supply or, if so, it can be extremely expensive because of the expensive processes you need to get some water back to that quality level that does not damage health. The amendment of the law goes far beyond the reduced procedure, so here too we appeal, let us change the decision on the procedure and deal with it on a regular basis and discuss all these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u6	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. I propose to the National Assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law amending the Agricultural Lands Act shall be dealt with in a simplified procedure. We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. Who's in? [[43 members.]] Is anyone against it? [[36 members.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the proposal for a law amending the Agricultural Lands Act will be dealt with in a simplified manner. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. on the 1st item of the agenda, with questions from the Members. I remind you that we have 63 questions from Members and Members on the agenda, including the outstanding 8 questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u7	We're continuing our adjourned session. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. I welcome to the National Assembly the President of the Government, Minister, Ministers, Secretary-General of the Government. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 56 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order shall be established on the basis of an agreement with the leaders of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244 and Article 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the President of the Government to the members of the opposition and to the question of a Member or a member of the coalition. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer in no more than five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister or Minister. We will then decide on this in the context of the votes without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government or the Minister must send him a written reply within thirty days. However, if the Member wishes to receive an oral answer, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. As regards this item on the agenda, the mags apologized. Andrej Vizjak, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and another minister, whom I can see is still present. That way we won't consider him excused. You have also received a review of the questions sent, which were not answered within the deadline of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, Positive Slovenia, will first ask him the question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u8	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon to the government council. Dear Prime Minister, on 14 March in the National Assembly, we adopted the amendment to the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia. I can say that it has not been long since Minister Šuštersič, on warning what might actually happen, after the amendment of the law on the administration of state property, was again taken care of by the government and no longer by the Agency for the management of capital investments, said the following, quote, "The Agency will not act as a postman, but as someone who will make a proposal that will be substantively, it is not an empty envelope in which the government would write what it wants, but, of course, its proposals, in accordance with its competences and competences." Today, three months after what Minister Šuštersič said, we can only find that everything we have warned about has come true. The agency became a postman, carrying empty envelopes to the government or certain ministers and government or certain ministers write what they want. This is quite contrary to what has actually been said. However, the change in law has led to a situation where we opened the wide door back to what was previously closed — that is, the policy of deciding the economy. We could see something similar in the years 2004-2008 when you were the President of the same government, of course with other ministers, but, in fact, you showed a model of how to deal with capital investments in the country. You have shown that it is very important which membership card is borne by those who take responsibility or which coalition partners will participate in this recruitment. You can see something like that and we've got it at the door. It happened in Dars, it happened in the SID Bank, in Petrol, Triglav National Park, Mura Development Agency, and it is likely that there is something similar in Telekom and everything else that follows. That is why my main and main question is: With the coalition contract you have committed yourself, I quote, "we will be cadreding solely by our abilities, personal honesty and readiness to implement the government's programme to get out of the crisis..." and so on. In fulfilling the commitments of the coalition treaty, therefore, I am particularly interested in your vision and the fulfilment of your commitments, so that you will be able to recruit coalition partners solely according to your abilities. That's why I'm asking: How or in what way do you plan to accomplish this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u9	Mr Janez Janša, Prime Minister of the Government, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u10	Each government has its own agenda, and this programme strives to do its best. In order for the programme to be implemented, the government carries out a number of functions. One of these is human resources. All governments exercise this function and will do so in the future, because this is part of the responsibility that each government has. The coalition contract in this part is perfectly fine. I don't care what color someone we call, I wonder if he's capable of it. Each government has a final account and this account shows whether the policy has been successful. Since you mentioned our previous mandate and some comments on staffing at the time, even in those four years, as the then government, we have made many appointments every week, because mandates are under way and so on, just like any other government. Many appointments were fine, all were not, even in all other mandates. However, if we draw the line under that mandate today, this is the mandate in which Slovenia developed in its history as quickly as possible and had the best macroeconomic indicators. In the end, each government is judged in history by this as the main criterion. And this mandate and this government will be assessed in this way, not by individual human resources moves, but by the results of these appointments. As far as the Capital Investment Management Agency is concerned, I don't think there's any difference between the government coalition and your client's program. In pre-election time, we all stood up for this agency to be terminated. We will respect our promise and try to make capital investment management more transparent and even more rational. We now have a larger number of institutions dealing with this. The fact that you set up an agency that employs and does other things far from the responsibility and eyes of the public does not mean that you have withdrawn policy decision-making or that politics does not interfere with the economy, but in the Slovenian context this means, above all, that a number of lobbyists who had previously had to act indirectly open doors to public societies are even more untransparent. We probably have no illusions about this. The decision must be where the responsibility is, not the other way around. We have experience that shows that any other way can lead to confusion, but in the end there are poor results and there is still much less transparency. However, speaking of numbers, three months of term are well behind us, and at that time our government has carried out 312 appointments and 150 discharges. During the previous term of office, the previous government carried out 730 appointments and 155 discharges during the same period of three months. That's the stats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u11	Request for supplement, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u12	I asked what, as Prime Minister of the Government, you would do to prevent this political recruitment from continuing. I must say, last week I watched your Minister's statement at the Odessa, when Mr Chernač was asked, that was June 6th. There, I listened to the Minister's response to the question, given that it was an illegal procedure that took place with regard to appointment. We're talking about documents that the media have uncovered based on e-mail. The minister's response was very simple: "And what is illegal here?" And if we go to see only legislation, we can see that the government can only give consent, not even propose or travel which candidates should be named. So I can't understand, it's simply a high degree of ignorance, when it's actually more than clear that it was a violation of the law. And that's what I'm most interested in: What are we going to do in this case? Are we just going to be saying this answer, "because it's nothing illegal," which we're going to continue. That's what worries me the most. And I think that, as Prime Minister, you should be most concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u13	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u14	I think I made myself clear. In the process or in the debate and preparation of the Capital Investment Management Act, which will bring together all the state-owned assets managers so far. They're four in charge and a few on the side. In this way, we will make the matter transparent. Now, perhaps the Slovenian public knows about some of these solutions that come into the public by chance, and what the government is considering, all that is decided elsewhere, and you don't even know it, nor do we. But we're responsible for the situation. However, if anyone thinks that everything in Slovenia has been okay, that all these societies, from Darsa forward, have been well managed and that we have too much money and that the policy that has led Slovenia to a major developmental backlog behind the average of the European Union over the last three years must be continued, this is his right. However, this government wants to bring the country out of the crisis and will act in this way and will take the necessary measures, including personnel, and will take full responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u15	Mr Möderndorfer, ask for a discussion on the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u16	President of the Government, I fully agree with you – everything is allowed as long as it is legal. However, I still argue that the matter was not legally carried out. And if anyone does, then the Prime Minister must defend the rule of law. It is precisely for the reasons stated today, and given that I have not actually received an answer on client and coalition recruitment, on the subject of expertise and ability, even on the basis of what we have all been able to read in the weekly newspaper and other media, I can say that it is more than clear that it is names and people who have little in common with expertise. I think it is precisely because of everything that we have said that we can, under the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to hold a debate and determine what is true and what is not, and what should be the case in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u17	This will be decided in the context of the votes. The following question will be asked by Mr Darko Jazbec, Positive Slovenia, to the Prime Minister of the Government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present, especially to the Prime Minister! Dear Prime Minister, the first consequences of the legislation adopted to balance public finances are now known. I want to know: How do you assess these first effects of the adopted health law and especially in the field of health insurance? These consequences may not be exactly what you introduced us to when the law was passed. You said that people will not be affected under social censorship, 64% of the average wage. Now we see it's not like that. The increased premium for supplementary health insurance has affected everything equally, but at this point it does not go for 50 euros per year, to the extent that more has to be paid. It's a much more complex matter, so I'll explain it to you on the case. If someone breaks their femur today and is in surgery, fired, there are three options. Either the allowance from the pocket of a thousand 700 euros or it covers the supplementary insurance or it has neither of them, it comes from compulsory insurance because it is necessary. The matter is completely untransparent, chaotic, and what is interesting is that despite the high amounts of these insurance companies there are no controls, there are no controllers. There is no legal or physical basis for this. I therefore conclude that, in essence, this lack of transparency in the field of anomaly, such as supplementary health insurance, which has increased with this law, has some purpose. And maybe we'll get some medical and technical supplies. What happened? When the law came into force, the following day the pharmacies received new prices after the online system, new price standards for which they are bound under the contract. Products for diabetes, the purchase price of which is 4.5 euros, had to start selling for 1.5 euros. The pharmacists, the patients, cried, but maybe they laughed at the Ministry of Finance because they made a great move. With one marriage, they took more money from patients and gave worse medicine and worse supplies. Why am I explaining these cases to you? Because I don't know and I'd ask you: Why is it so urgent to implement this law in practice so incomplete, without professional background and without preparation, when neither health care providers nor patients nor pharmacies are prepared? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u19	The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u20	Thank you for asking. These changes, which concern health and which are contained in the Public Finance Balance Act, were necessary. If they were not accepted and enforced, almost EUR 100 million would be lost in the health treasury this year. In this case, the system would actually collapse and everyone would be affected. Especially those who cannot afford alternatives in this case, and this is the majority of citizens and citizens. Since you asked me for an opinion on these insurance incentives, I fully agree with Minister Gantar, who said that there was no reason for the Mutual to immediately increase the premiums, without even being able to assess these effects and without having to find the internal reserves in this insurance undertaking that obviously exist, because only wages there are significantly higher than they are in the Government. Obviously, some who belong to the so-called para-State sector are taking advantage of this situation, and I think that the National Assembly, as a legislator, will also have to meet proposals in a short time or discuss how to put this part of the system under which we finance healthcare. At least we should wait for the effects and then propose adjustments to the premiums on the basis of the calculations. That this was done on the nose and the time frame itself shows that they probably tried to pursue other goals, given that the law also produced positive effects for them, they should have simply calculated this. What is regulated by this Public Finance Balance Act in some way allows the health system to survive roughly this year. If we hadn't done so, you'd have heard all the warnings, which are backed up by concrete calculations, we'd have a huge problem in the second half of the year. It would be a health crisis, because if there is no income, it is not possible to finance it as much as anyone else would want.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr. Jazbec is asking for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u22	Thank you. Although I am not satisfied with the answer, I am not disappointed because I did not expect any other information. Look, if we were to raise the premiums later, they'd be even higher. If the government could calculate, the insurers could also calculate how much they had to raise. It's pure math. I would say, however, that you use the same logic as in the budget in this stabilising of medical bills. But it's a different matter here. You can't use the same logic of saving, because health is a living entity and I don't know if you'll then propose some law prohibiting people from being sick or injured. And also on the input, things are going to change, so this bill is not going to hold up in any case. However, bankruptcy, which is lower than GDP, the workers of the Primorje will now pay less in this cash register than when they were full-time employees, forced retirement will also be less paid in this cash register. The stability of this cash register, I think it's a purer theory. I would say, however, that these measures already show that we are moving away from solidarity, increasing asymmetry, making access to health services more difficult, and in particular increasing resources from a private source of funding, where we are already at the summit in Europe. These parameters, which I have just listed, were the reason why Slovenia crashed 19th on the European Health System scale last month in Brussels. And it's gonna slide further. I don't know how this is gonna turn up. I heard in the coalition that there was no progress without the victims. Now we have victims without progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u23	Here you go, Mr. Jansha.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u24	Thank you. In particular, I note that some subsystems in this country have very strong advocates. In the previous mandate, and even before that, we have met many times with initiatives, as well as with legislative proposals, which in every way wanted to maintain an oasis of autonomy in the form of Mutual and also some other insurance undertakings. Whenever the legislator tried to cut into this and rationalize it or get it under control, various lobbying, including in the National Assembly, came in and tried to prevent it. I don't understand this defending someone who spends 15% of the money he raises on insured people to function. The key information we have encountered in these comparisons is that the health insurance company spends 2% of its own functioning. But each other spends on its own functioning with all the high wages and various luxuryes that have been there for years, 15%! If we had only partially intervened in these reserves, there would certainly be no need for any substantial increase in these premiums. It is necessary to be aware of this, and these things really need to be settled, and this government will regulate them, regardless of whether or not the lobbyist pressures will reach the National Assembly. But that's not the only problem. In this mandate, we have a system of health rights regulation, including the regulation of the insurance base system and its heights, where there is no order of regulation of the health network to ensure more effective management of public funds in health care and in general answers to questions how, under means that will never be the same as everyone would like to finance all the rights that we can prescribe here and, in the absence of such resources, to provide quality health care for all, irrespective of social differences.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u25	Thank you. The next question sent by the opposition will be put to the Prime Minister of the Government by Mr Janko Weber, Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Hello, Prime Minister! My parliamentary issue will concern the management of capital investments. There are at least two models to manage capital investments. One shows that it is for the benefit of the State and for the benefit of the people, the other suggests that it can also be a process of cheap acquisition of private property. When the Social Democrats took responsibility for the leadership of the country, we accepted membership in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development as a challenge, with the OECD's conclusion, of course at the international level, that the management of state assets or capital deposits should be conducted transparently, effectively and responsibly. At the same time, it is also the OECD's conclusion that this can be ensured primarily by withdrawing policy from direct interference with a state-owned economy. We are pleased that in a very short time when the Capital Investment Management Agency worked, we have proved that it is possible to manage state assets successfully. This is not least evidenced by the Agency's partial report, which, in fact, generated a profit of 45 % more in one year than it was before and even tripled the net profit from the operation of state investments. In this mandate, let me also remind you of the fact that in the previous term, in fact, you wanted to prevent the establishment of an agency through a referendum, which you continued in this mandate when you took back government leadership in such a way that the first measure would somehow take away all the powers of the Capital Investment Management Agency and actually subordinate everything to politics. This was also seen by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the OECD, which, of course, also very seriously reminded you that such measures are completely flawed and allow the policy to directly interfere with the management of capital investments. Unfortunately, it went so far as to present to the public that you wanted to cover up this OECD conclusion, so I ask you, Madam President: What are the professional reasons why the Government has decided to launch a project for a comprehensive change in the governance concept of state property, even though the OECD has identified it as appropriate and transparent? But above all, I am interested in: How will you ensure the professional, efficient management of state property and how will you prevent abuse mainly in the cheap sale of state property? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u27	The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u28	Thank you for asking. Dear Member, when you have taken over the Government, Slovenia has achieved 21% of the European average's development. When we took over the government behind you, we got this average of 84%. If all of this were so good "laufalo", if these things were with Kasi and AUKN, and with the various experiments that were sold well in public, then probably these numbers would be different. I have to say, this is the first time I've heard of this triple profit. I don't know any official report from the agency that the government would receive, which would contain that information. Apparently, this agency is reporting to someone else, although I should probably report to the National Assembly. It must be acknowledged, however, that the solution that we are preparing now follows in some part this concept of managing the capital investments of a country that does not burden the daily work of the government. This approach was correct in this part, but this step was not taken to the end. What is now in this new proposal actually brings together all of these state-owned assets managers, including the two funds, because you have made an agency with some employees to manage most of these capital investments, outside of that are other funds that have 10 times more employees and that manage fewer capital investments. Things are still doubling, they're irrational, a lot of money is spent by the state to make this machine, at all different ends, work. We will now try to bring this together and make the matter more transparent. When the legislation you're talking about and now defending it was passed, you haven't even left the opposition around. It was about the so-called profession, which eventually turned out to be more or less lobbyist. In this proposal, which is now being drawn up by the Government, the Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances will, by law, have a seat in the supervisory board of this holding company or this company for the management of state capital investments. You know that the opposition has a majority in this committee, which means that the opposition can directly participate through this commission in controlling the management of capital investments. This solution is not available so far, and I doubt that the organisation with the OECD will have any significant comments on this. We also often get from various institutions only from the Slovenian translation of some comments into English, which spread widely across different channels. This should be done with great caution. But it is true, and this is true for your mandate, this is true for our previous mandate, and for what mandates before that Slovenia has not had as much impact and benefits as it could have had since these capital investments. And it is necessary to finally find a system so that those who have created this property will at least partly get it back in some way.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u29	Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u30	Thank you. With regard to the starting points the government had, the previous government, when we took responsibility for the rule and governance of the country, would nevertheless be fair, Mr Janša, if we also said that it had actually taken over the leadership of the country at the time of the economic crisis and that the economy and banking system in Slovenia were in debt not only to the neck but practically to the head. And we have started to solve this successfully, and it would be a miracle if the Capital Investment Management Agency were to solve all these problems in just one year, which have accumulated due to the wrong economic policy, especially during the period 2004-2008, when you were responsible for leading Slovenia. And what we're worried about right now is that there's a continuation of the path that started between 2004 and 2008, when it's obviously been trying to make it possible to borrow credits from banks without serious judgements. Credits were actually leased on the basis of negotiation and some mutual trust, and we all feel the consequences today. That is why we were not least forced to adopt the Public Finance Balance Act, the budget rebalance that went down. In short, we are violating rights in Slovenia because some are very rich. What we're worried about right now is this: How will you really ensure the professional management of these investments, how will you even prevent the sale of the Ljubljana Bank, for example, to the Belgian Bank and become a branch of the foreign bank? Is this also the purpose of Friday’s session, which has already been convened, and what will then be your position as president? Is it possible to manage successfully or not in Slovenia with state property? Social Democrats argue that in just one year of the Agency's operation, we have proven that this is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u31	Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u32	All or all of the contradictions of this topic are very clear from this supplementary issue. On the one hand, you accuse us that banks have been lending bad loans, on the other hand, you say that the government should have nothing to do with banks. It is necessary to decide whether we want a country manager who has powers and is also responsible, whether you want to have someone who is only responsible, and who would continue to be managed by you through various bypasses and so-called lobbying professions. Of course it won't work that way. To put things in order, we now propose this new arrangement. The concept itself will be very difficult to criticize because it goes the same way that you wanted to arrange these things for this agency. But we'll take all the steps, not just one. And responsibility will still be clearly linked to the one who has this responsibility under the constitution and laws — the National Assembly and also the Government. As far as the bank is concerned, I expect, in some ways, that we will move from a debate on who will sell the bank to a debate on how to ensure the normal functioning of the banking system, or, you know, soon this dilemma will be gone because there will be nothing to sell. You're gonna have to ask someone to take something and sanitize it. We have come so far with this debate – nothing can be sold, national interest is above all. In the background, some have taken very good care of their interests by seemingly defending national interest, while the debts remain with taxpayers and also with regard to the banking sector. Any decision will be – not now how you will prevent the sale – in relation to state banks, we will have to take it together, the legal basis here, the operational decisions of the government or the one that will then operate operationally. None of this can be done at any agency, even though it's been tried.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u33	Mr Weber will request a discussion on the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u34	That's right, President. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask the National Assembly to hold a debate on, in my opinion, the inadequate response of the President of the Government. If it is true that you want to eliminate contradictions, then it is only right that we discuss this in the National Assembly. But I want to remind you of the following. The Capital Investment Management Agency has also made it very clear that it is necessary to call upon responsibility or review the operations of all those who ran the bank, either the New Ljubljana Bank or the New Maribor Credit Bank. The government avoids these warnings. The government also does not want to face this report. The President said earlier that he did not actually know the report of the Capital Investment Management Agency; what a contradiction, the President. True, the agency sent this report to the National Assembly because it corresponds to the National Assembly. This is also a very important difference between what you are doing with your proposal and what used to be. The Agency must get the consent of the National Assembly if it wants to sell anything, you propose another. It is sufficient for the Prime Minister or a single minister to decide on this, and for each share, a significant share either in the bank or in the company of the company to be sold off. However, the 12 billion remaining assets are not without property, 12 billion is, but it is true that at this point it is harmful to sell because it does not have enough value on the market. And that is exactly what we want to point out, for example, that the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank also sells all the credits that companies have leased at this bank without sober judgment. And at a very low price, we sell the bank and at the same time, whoever buys this bank buys all the companies that are in charge of the New Ljubljana Bank. I don't think it's too much or too much to point out that a potential buyer would only make more money by selling one of these companies than he would give to the New Ljubljana Bank, but at the same time he would own a majority share of companies in Slovenia, which is crucial to how we will develop. This is exactly what we would like to point out that it is a very serious danger for Slovenia to really lose its assets at a very low price, and that is what we want to talk about here in Parliament, because your changes are going in the direction that Parliament will not be responsible for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u35	Thank you. We will decide on your proposal in the context of the votes. Now, however, the question sent to the President of the Government by the coalition MP. It will be installed by Mr. Franz Jurša, DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! Dear Mr President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we have entered into a coalition contract that an old-age pension with paid contributions to a pension is paid the right to receive a pension for which payment is guaranteed by the Republic of Slovenia. The DeSUS party and the large majority of employees who have paid their contributions to the pension fund for a long time, and now receive and expect to be paid by a decision on the pension, ask: When are we to exclude from the liabilities of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office all payments of so-called pensions for which the institution does not have the coverage of paid contributions from the employment period? We are aware that, in the past, the country may also in future, by law, grant pension rights under special conditions and merit, but it is high time that payments of these obligations are separated from the obligation of the PSIZ and this obligation is financed by a special account, the source of which is the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This seems particularly important to us right now when we are taking steps to offset public finances and it is high time to make an incision also in the pension register, for which DeSUS has been on the table for years. A large number of young people who are awaiting employment expect that the operation of the PPIZ will be such as to ensure that pensions are paid in a concrete and secure manner on the basis of paid contributions and, of course, with a certain solidarity.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u37	Here you go, Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u38	Thank you so much for asking. The current pension law still contains 54 different categories of rights which do not have a basis in paid contributions. It is said that in Slovenia from the pension box every month we pay money which does not come from paid contributions to 54 different categories of people. As you yourself have said, some of these payments are certainly justified, some should be discussed, at least in those times, some I think are almost certainly unjustified, but this is not the main topic of the so-called pension reform. I think that by the time the law fell, agreement was reached to exclude this part from the pension system. This was already a proposed part of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act in the previous term, which had more or less consensus on it, because it did not intervene in the very essence of the problem. It was only that these funds were directly exempted from the payment of pensions, thereby decommissioning the pension register, and this was paid directly from the budget. However, before this is paid directly from the budget, my legislator believes that there is a serious debate on which of these 54 categories should be kept at the same level, which may be adapted to these situations and possibly eliminated. In my view, this will be a rather interesting debate, which will not only be a debate on the seemingly things, because only last year, the pension allowance for these expenses, which do not come from the contributions paid, was paid almost EUR 280 million. 280 million euros last year alone. The pension box itself will become a major burden if we take it out of it and transfer it to the budget, and in doing so, we will also discuss what is truly justified and what is not justified. In part, the Public Finance Balance Act has limited some of these expenditure to a negligible extent, not essential, but in fact 10% of pension money. Last year, 9.2% of the money was paid from the pension fund and did not come from rights on the basis of contributions paid. This is the task that awaits us. I do not think that there will be any major debate on this transfer from the pension fund directly to the budget, because we have all agreed on this. More interesting will probably be this debate about whether, in these times in Slovenia, there is still a justification that we have 54 different categories that have rights that do not stem from such or other paid contributions. The answer is that, this must be done, we think that this will be one of the easier things that we will now coordinate under the new social agreement and that this will also be on your hands in the autumn.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Jurša, if you please, a request for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u40	Thank you very much again. Since the vast majority of citizens are listening to us and because I have asked a very specific question, I would like to repeat once again your more specific answer to the question : When is it real that we can expect it?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u41	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u42	As it is said, if negotiations normally run with economic and social partners or social partners in the Economic and Social Council, then in the autumn you will have these proposals on the table and we will also coordinate them within the framework of parliamentary policy and try to reach consensus and then legalise them.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u43	Thank you. With this, we have exhausted questions for the President of the Government. I thank Mr. Janša for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, we turn to the questions raised at the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly. The Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic, has come up with a debt from the 3rd meeting to answer questions from the previous meeting. The questions raised by Mrs Renate Brunskole regarding the progress of the project on the construction of a network of regional waste management centres, Mr Matjaž Zanoškar's question regarding the environmental rehabilitation of the Mežiški valley, question mag. Matthew Tonin in connection with unreasonablely long procedures for issuing opinions from the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, the procedures for drawing up municipal spatial plans and mag. Boruta Ambrožić in relation to the protection of endangered bird species in Slovenia. Here you go, Minister, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u44	A nice greeting from the honourable Member, Members! In the beginning, a sincere apology for your absence from the previous sitting. The Agriculture Council or the Environment Council, which I am covering in the European Parliament, are on Mondays, so I can see from the schedules that it will happen again and again over the year. I would like to give the following answer to the question raised by Mrs Brunskole regarding waste management centres, focusing on the Dolenska waste management centres. As far as the Slovenian network of waste management centres is concerned, in the framework of these two, three months of work at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, we have carried out a detailed review of the quantities of waste in the future, aligned these quantities with expectations and commitments, the requirements that we have since the adopted European directives until 2020, and carried out some adjustments to these data in the plan for the construction of the centres. Thus, at the Ljubljana Centre, which was also approved, we found that for about 200,000 more people there is a reserve at the so-called mechanical-biological part of the treatment. For South-West Slovenia, we then merged from the two planned mechanical-biological treatment centres into one. And we also had an 11. 4. Also, a conversation with the representatives of Cerod that the quantitative flow needs to be re-examined and quantified, because the whole design has been designed in such a way as to allow all the waste collected in the area to be processed on these mechanical and biological treatment devices, without any other sorting that is going to take place today, and will have to do much more in the future. So today, to the question of how many of these waste dumps are in Slovenia, we can answer that they are active in Celje and in Koroška, in the construction of Puconci for Prekmurje, the decisions for Slovensko Bistrica are approved, then for Zasavje, Ljubljana and Novo Mesto, where some are already at the beginning of the construction – I think for Zasavje, Ljubljana is in the public procurement phase, Primorska is in coordination with this common MBO device for the whole area, and for Dolenjska we also expect to align the quantities and also adapt the project to these quantities that will be processed, because the pre-designed MBO could certainly be a trap for the future, because the cost of waste treatment would be too high. For all these projects, we estimate that it is possible to carry them out in this financial perspective. In view of the smaller quantities required by the MBO, we estimate that the financial resources available for this area of waste are sufficient and can be realised during this period. As regards the second part of the problem detected in the new town’s work, according to Leskovec landfill, the environmental permit for the operation of this landfill and all facilities at the landfill is an environmental permit. The required sorting device has been obtained. The problem was the draining of water and the construction of a cleaning plant on this landfill. As we have also seen from the media, this experimental operation is already under way, so we are counting on the future plan that was issued by the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, the Environment Directorate and also the depository administrators, which could then be issued in August and could then be carried out smoothly. As we know, in the meantime, these wastes are temporarily stored at this site, which is also possible from the point of view of legislation for one year.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u45	Mrs. Brunskole, if you please, a request to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. In connection with the networks of regional waste management centres in Slovenia, I asked mainly because of the fact that Slovenia does not have sufficient capacity for processing after the currently available data, so it is in some way pointless to reduce capacity. It is more reasonable to increase the area of contribution and, above all, what I think is of the utmost importance, to use cohesion funds to the greatest extent possible. In connection with this question about the progress of the construction of the network of regional centres in Slovenia, I had in mind, among other things, what you have said to me and would then ask for this written document of yours, because you obviously have this written answer, also certain areas, such as the Trebnje area and elsewhere in Slovenia, where the questions about accession were raised. In connection with Cerod, the second phase, I wondered whether I could not see the answer to how the signing of the annex number four, Cerod, the second phase, by the Posavican municipalities and also the municipality of Črnomelj, although all the municipalities involved pointed out to me that they were responsible by the Ministry for the fact that the Medo-Chinese annex, the signature of this was not the basis for co-financing the project. It is the intention, the fear that this project could be identified by a change and perhaps more inclusion of funds for, I don't know, the MBO center of Posavja or something like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u47	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u48	Thank you, for that supplementary question. As far as capacity is concerned as I have already said, this clear calculation should be made. The basic project for the construction of the MBO was designed to be 490 thousand tonnes of these capacities. That's from a good 800,000 tons of waste, as far as it's collected, for a stronger number, it's five-eighths, for almost two-thirds of that waste. The practice that has been introduced in recent years and has gone in the direction of separate collection of waste on the islands, the separate collection of mechanical and biological waste yields results that the quantities are being reduced daily and Vrhnika is the one that has the most collected waste, where over 80% of the waste does not come into this MBO at all. Therefore, the dimension for this valley MBO for over 50,000 tonnes of waste is definitely over-dimensioned, as if we were counting from 100 to 200 kilograms per inhabitant of this area, this is about 150 thousand people for about 15 to 30 thousand tonnes for the area. The project, as I have already said, is conceived for 54,000 tonnes, in these discussions now taking place for these areas, including Primorska, there are concepts somewhere between 30 and 35,000 tonnes of capacity on these MBOs. And that's the target amount that this facility is supposed to be built, instead of 54,000 tonnes, we estimate that then it is also an appropriate significant reduction in investment, the base is 18 million, we can count on this to be built for significantly smaller money. But what's important is that the price of this treatment also goes down. I am afraid that some of the people who have designed the concepts of building these MBOs in the past have, in particular, had investments in mind, not what the price will be for the population. In particular, they did not take into account the fact that these projects were designed five, six years ago to do as much on the separate collection system as has been done in recent years. This audit is therefore urgently necessary. As I have already said, we are assessing and our primary objective is, logically, that cohesion funds are the basis for these investments. In view of such a reduction in the need for these capacities, it is estimated that some 150 million cohesion money available there will be able to build these capacities. So that, for the next financial perspective, we have only the energy use of municipal waste. And that's not gonna be in this financial perspective.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Now you can answer Mr Zanoškar's question about the Měžički valley.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u50	This is an important issue that stems from the findings in the past that measures have had to be taken to address these burdens in the Mežica Valley due to the burdens of the past. This law has been and in the past things have already been done. In recent years too, there has been a major problem of providing financial resources, as the whole project is expected to weigh €13 million 400 000 and is expected to take place between 2007 and 2022. In the first years with a dynamic of EUR million per year, in the period 2017-2020 750 thousand euros, 2021 400 thousand and 2022 374 thousand euros. When the financial plan for this year was closed at the time of the rebalancing, it was similar to virtually all the other items that were changed downwards, so that from the originally planned one million we had to reduce these items to EUR 604 thousand 579, which is why these measures will also have to be reduced this year. We also know that last year's work has already been carried out and that there are still obligations from last year, which means that then the real resources for this year are significantly less than 466 thousand obligations for the previous year and we have some 138 thousand free resources for this year from the initial expectation that about half a million euros could be available. I also have an initiative and we are coordinating the term with the mayors of the Mežíska Valley to try to discuss this problem and to provide funds in future budgets. However, it is also within the Ministry's intention to redefine what has not yet been done in Slovenia in order to remove the old burdens of European funds in the preparation of programmes and operational programmes for the 2014-2020 cohesion period, and I hope that we can only accelerate this dynamic by means of cohesion policy. There are certainly two projects in Slovenia with other old burdens; one of the most exposed are these problems in the Mežiški valley and the problems around Cinkarna Celje, and these two projects are already quite discussed. However, as I have already said, we are aware of this problem, but unfortunately this year, as in the case of elementary disasters, we had to reduce this expenditure for this year, and this item has not remained intact.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u51	Mr. Zanoskar, please, here's a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u52	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. However, if you give such an answer to the mayors of the Meziska Valley, they will not be pleased with it. See, in 2007 a law or decree was adopted on the rehabilitation of the Upper Mežiščina Valley and was regulated at least at the beginning of the financing dynamics. It was such that experts have also shown that the situation in the Mežiška Valley is improving to reduce the level of lead in the blood of children. But we're kind of halfway there today. This project should continue with such dynamics and provide funds for them. It is quite clear to you that in this area of the degraded Mežiške dolina lives a few more than 10,000 inhabitants, that these inhabitants are not innocent, not due to this situation, because we know that around 350 years old tradition of the exploitation of lead ore has left large ecological wounds. My question has been raised, Mr Minister, how, when funds will be provided, and the answer that resources are not in the balance and that they cannot be provided in the budget, is certainly unacceptable to me as well as to those who live there and wait for their living conditions to be regulated in such a way that they can live roughly as all the other inhabitants and residents of our country live.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u53	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u54	I have to say that I was expecting, and that's why my colleagues from Koroška are coming because they're not happy with it. Unfortunately, as I have already said, in preparation for the rebalancing, which we have also adopted in the National Assembly, we have simply not been able to provide a full million more. As you know, it has also been complicated in previous years so that practically half of the funds were provided, so I also pointed out this possibility to fear that this matter would take place too long with this dynamics and only with the integral resources of the budget, so we will try to develop this proposal to see what we can do next year, says in 2013, the most necessary things, which will also result in the preparation of the 2013 budget. However, the basic ambition is that the main focus of these funds is to be accelerated in the 2014-2020 cohesion period, it is said within this period, for which this time-frame has also been adopted, in order to resolve this problem with accelerated dynamics.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u55	Here you go, Mr. Zanoskar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u56	Thank you again, Minister. I am perfectly clear, but given that one of the Members, Mr Miro Petek, belongs to her in the previous term of office, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u57	Mr Zanoškar, you can now only propose a discussion of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u58	President, this is what I want. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u59	There's no replica to the minister's response.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u60	He sent or filed a law to rehabilitate the Mishik Valley, so it seems to me [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u61	I don't know if you understand me. You can make a request for a debate, not replicate the Minister's words.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u62	In view of the fact that this has been set up, I then propose that, under Article 246(2), we hold an extensive discussion on the rehabilitation of the Cross Valley. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Zanoskar. We can go straight to the Minister's answer to the next question, the question of mags. Matthew Tonin in connection with ARSO.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u64	The question put by the Member States, which raises two questions, could be said briefly. One is the role of the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia in the procedures for the development of municipal spatial plans. In the second part, there is another role of the Agency, which is one of the very important co-ordinators or agencies involved in a number of procedures. We can say that the ARSO issues consent and is permitted under three laws. This is the law on environmental protection, the law on conservation of nature and the law on water. The basic documents are environmental consents, environmental permits, water licences, water consents, natural protection consents, monitoring powers, water refund decisions. Approximately 15,000 applications per year belong to the agency and in many interviews with colleagues from the agency we are looking for solutions in this direction. First of all, within the Agency, this has also happened in the past year, some relocations have been made so that as many people as possible are in this area of administrative procedures where these backlogs are the largest. However, another matter that is more important than this and will have greater effects on the long term is the amendment of legislation. That is why we will also be in this year, because we already have a law on environmental protection on the agenda in July, as well as a law on basic water, so that some of the complex procedures that are taking place at the agency today are simplified and that the number of these applications and the membership of these applications are significantly reduced. For example, in the case of water protection permits or concessions for water use, I believe that there has been considerable progress in this part. Otherwise, my colleagues from the Environment Agency and I have sat together many times. An example was also the opening of landfills, if I may say so, where in the past, inspection decisions have been closed in respect of the rule of law of Europe. The basic principle and method of work that we have chosen, which should also become a model for the future, was that those who have had these problems have met with representatives of the Agency, including the Environment Directorate, inspections, that we have determined what needs to be done to make this landfill open or to issue a positive environmental permit and that a set of measures will then make the action plan by which these matters are carried out. I must say that my colleagues have also acknowledged that this is a new way, a new practice, it is said that we are proactively involved in the matter and that in this way, even when we do this, what needs to be done, we will get the expected permission. I can say that at this time I have also received quite a few responses from the field, that this has been known in other areas, and that it is trying to go this way, to really win the whole problem if comments are made on the permission, to identify all problems, and to solve them in one walk after that, but not that this mail room from the one asking for permission, to the agency, and back and again, what has happened in the past. I believe that there is much that can be done here, especially at this administrative level. As I said before, certain personnel changes were made within the Agency during the technical and administrative work. We are also seriously considering that, in the context of the second phase of the reorganisation, we would also find that by working people for a certain period of time, we would also strengthen this part in order to eliminate these backlogs as much as possible. In parallel, as I have already said, with legislative changes, we reduce and simplify the number of procedures and then these matters could run more currently than they are today. We are aware of this problem and are also trying to solve it in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u65	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We will not leave you alone yet, you can continue to answer the next question posed by the Magi at the previous meeting. Borut Ambrožič in relation to the protection of endangered bird species in Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u66	I must admit that the topics that I had previously responded to, the topics that I had been more engaged in, but I am also pleased to get my colleagues' response to what has been done in the past to protect the great hurrahka, and I can give you the measures that my colleagues have taken. Key nests and key living areas where the hive is fed were first included in Natura. At the nests on the karst edge, where in the past the nesting of the large hive was disturbed by uncontrollable sports climbing, an agreement was reached with climbers and a regime on the climbing grounds so that a successful nesting of the large hive could be established. These interviews took place. They agreed on forest interventions, so is logging in the woods, where the hive nests, that this is happening outside the nesting season, as well as the construction of forest roads, for which there is a need to issue a consensus on when to build. Then there was also this conclusion, which, as I read it below, was upgraded, and in fact there was also a problem with electric shocks and, as a result, the deaths of birds as a result. On this subject, too, in the coastal part where the electricity distribution is covered by the Nova Gorica regional unit and one part of the permanent part, while the other part is sežanski, discussions were held with the Primors, who responded, this was done by the Institute of Nature Protection of the Republic of Slovenia. In these discussions it was evident that they had detected this problem and knew where those critical points were at which it was happening and that they were trying to resolve the problem by securing or insulating guides. The problem is on both sides. First, the problem is that birds are killed, and then, on the other hand, there are electricity outages. Unfortunately, colleagues have been less responsive in their work, but this problem has been detected, which is one of the evident in the Lipica quarry, where they also spoke to the DOPPS on this topic. And at this point, as I have already said, colleagues have been unsuccessful so far because of the lack of response of colleagues from this electricity distribution.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u67	Mag. Ambrozich, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u68	Thank you for your answer, Your Honor. I know about the data you gave me. I'd like to ask you a further question: Have you considered the last part of my question that I raised in your absence, or are you prepared to connect with other sectoral ministers, in particular the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, so that, in particular, the electric economy companies will be able to provide tax relief and thus indirectly motivate them to make it easier, as you yourself said, for the relatively low cost of isolation, which brings a great deal of solution to this endangered bird, which also represents the great tourist potential of our country, which is also due to this bird and sports capacity, as you yourself have mentioned? I come from these species myself as the guardian of mountain nature, and I know what I'm talking about. It seems to me that with the relatively small effort of our country, we could encourage those companies, or perhaps other companies, to adequately protect this living specimen of beauty that we are fortunate to have housed in our country's territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u69	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u70	I must say that in the discussion that we have had on this issue, we do not assess that a tax relief instrument for these costs should be introduced in companies that do not really have specific financial problems, but I think that this should simply be put into their programmes and that this should be done. We do not think about changing the law and introducing this tax relief.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the previous meeting, will answer Mr Mirk Brulc's question regarding the appointment of the Consul General in Trieste. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u72	Thank you very much for the oral question. With regard to the appointment of Dr Dimitri Ruple, I must say that it took place on the basis of an invitation to tender. The Commission, which reviewed all the applications received, examined who met the conditions and invited the Minister to propose to the Government the appointment of Dr Dimitri Rupl as general consul in Trieste. It follows from the question that the Member disturbs that Dr Rupel is 66 years old or should have completed them, and it seems to him that the work of a diplomat abroad is carried out for a maximum of four years, that perhaps it would be better to appoint someone who could carry out a full mandate, says four years. As far as Dr Dimitri Rupl is concerned, I am convinced that he fulfils all the necessary conditions, that he has all the necessary experience, that he has all the necessary knowledge to carry out this position. However, I must say that the Law on Foreign Affairs does not explicitly stipulate that the term of office is four years, but it says, no more than four years. This means that even if the mandate were shorter, if possibly shorter, it would not mean that anything is contrary to the law. And there is no doubt in the question that this appointment would be illegal or contrary to regulations. Nor does it conflict with the Public Finance Balance Act. However, I must say that this law had not yet been in force when this procedure was under way and when it was appointed. The Public Finance Balance Act does not explicitly provide for immediate retirement if someone fulfils certain conditions. I therefore assess that this appointment was in accordance with the rules and that it was lawful. However, as far as professional references are concerned, I estimate that this candidate, who has been appointed, meets all these professional references. As a result, the Government followed the proposal made by the Minister on the basis of a proposal made by the Commission responsible for the invitation to tender.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u73	Mr. Brulc, would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u74	Dear, good-bye! I certainly do not object to the finding that the invitation to tender was regular, that the candidate met and it is a pity that we are speaking here on the name of Dr Dimitri Ruple. This is because the government has decided to send all those who meet the minimum conditions for retirement, to retire or to retire. This is a two-year term that the appointed one will be able to carry out, and I think that, in terms of the savings that this government has consistently stressed, it is not rational for someone to move to the consular office for two years and then to be removed again in two years, it is called another and so on. Of course, there is also a question in the media and everywhere else that the early recall of the General Consul in Trieste is not politically possible. I think that what Mr Prime Minister has mentioned today that there have been almost four hundred changes in staff at the time of the government's arrival, we can also assume that there may have been a political change in this case. Mr Minister, I thank you for your answer and I do not expect anything further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u75	Thank you. Two more questions from the previous sitting. Excuse me, Mr Erjavec, if you'd like to complete your answer. No, no, no. We have two more questions from the previous meeting. For Dr. Žigo Turk, Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, the question was mag. Majde Potrat with regard to sports. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Members for the question, otherwise from the previous sitting, but it will be one of the seventeenths to which I will answer today and actually allow me to tell the National Assembly some of the things that I have already said in public. Slovenia has many extremely good athletes. The results achieved in sport are above average for a country with such a small population. Unfortunately, again and again we find that our sporting functions do not reach the level of athletes. Even events in Korea a few days ago, which I don't particularly want to comment on, they just confirm. Therefore, the fundamental principle of the Ministry of Sport Policy is that sport must be returned to athletes. Of course, athletes are not just those who kick the ball, they are also trainers and all other sports workers who live for sport. Not those who have the opportunity to have a good salary and to have exotic trips. It's not true that so far, all sports have been in the hands of athletes. There have been more or less profiled lobbying, which has been in control of sport for decades, and in particular the means for sport. Investments are planned and are also being made, and it is fitting to ask whether the priorities of our sport are true, while investments in areas that are historically important for Slovenian sport are neglected, such as gymnastics, and those where Slovenia has established itself in certain niche industries such as small size, such as swimming. Decisions are made in many ways, even intransparency, and athletes do not get to the point, and in the end it is all the fault of a government that does not have much leverage in this regard. Of course, we do not want to have these levers, but we are convinced that athletes must be involved. That is why we have started where we believe it is one of the reasons for the current situation. We wish that where there is influence, there is also responsibility. We estimate that it is unacceptable for one organisation to have, in part, an absolute majority directly in the body which decides on the most important aspects of financing in sport, which is in the case of the Slovenian Lottery. We have met with a number of stakeholders, including top athletes, industry and other sports associations, with trainers and on this basis we have made appropriate proposals. Sport is an activity of civil society and the Ministry's purpose is to further support this organisation. Of course, with the remark that sport must be at the hands of a real and fictitious civil society. We have written this in the coalition contract in the end, and we are making it happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u77	Thank you. Mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u78	Thank you for that part of the answer, Mr. Secretary. I didn't expect anything else from you than to say that the Ministry will now be the one to decide which civil society in sport is the right one and who can decide how the funds will be distributed. I asked you a question before the events you referred to. Yesterday, however, I was shocked to hear Mr Mitje Petkovsk's statement on funding, if you have just apostropheded the Gymnastics Association, but we are so pleased to boast of both the olympics who have brought so much glory to Slovenian sport. But as far as your answer is concerned now, I must tell you that I have been monitoring the changes in legislation, regulations and, more importantly, that I can very responsiblely assure you that you have actually succeeded in the hands of one person if the law is passed, and this will certainly bring together all decision-making power, while you have also apostrophated the Olympic Committees. This does not directly allocate funds. However, in the proposal for a law, you gave every decision to the Sport Council, which is the consultative body of the Government. When you spoke about the package appointment in the Slovenian Views show, you made a package appointment with this bill or you will. Thank you for the next part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u79	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Your Honor, what you're saying is, unfortunately, or fortunately, it doesn't. The Ministry doesn't decide. It's up to the National Assembly. So far, a proposal for a decisive package of votes has come to the National Assembly by the Olympic Committee, following this proposal – and we will discuss this proposal, but it will come up with a proposal from various sports associations and other civil society organisations that will choose things in an open manner. I thank you for your remark on gymnastics. I'm meeting athletes, and these meetings are an opportunity to alert me to some sort of anomaly. And I fully assure them that we have much less important investment in sport infrastructure than one solid gymnastics training hall in the adopted programme. And we have also been in the swimming infrastructure in the past, not the previous government, but not just the previous government, but probably for the past ten years we have been investing so foolishly that we do not have one solid pool for the winter training of our swimmers.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u81	Here you go, mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u82	I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on the response of Minister Žiga Turk and thus remove the void that cannot be filled because the law on changes in ownership of the Slovenian Lottery will be dealt with following a reduced procedure, so that there will be no general discussion. When we amended the Law of Loteria Slovenije in the previous term, Article 10, we dealt with it on a regular basis. It is interesting, and it would be worth saying in the debate on the Minister's response that the same person who advocated, say, the professionalization of the function of the Director of the Sport Foundation now proposes deprofessionalisation that the same person sits at the Directorate for Sport and is the Director of the Sport Foundation. If it's not about combining decisive functions in one man's hands, then I don't know what's more obvious evidence than that. It is a matter of examining the proposed functions, how they should be divided, how they should be decided, but it is symptomatic that the gentleman who has such a decisive influence in sport always, in the end, says that the National Assembly is responsible. But the rules must be adopted by the World of the Sports Foundation. And in the previous term, we received three rules that could be amended in such a way that quickly. At the end of the day, it is very nice to say that everything is decided by the National Assembly. True, but in this National Assembly, the majority of the coalition that has decided on the system of decision-making in sport and the system of decision-making on who civil society is and who is not civil society in sport is to be taken into their own hands. Not after saying the National Assembly is the one who decides everything. The National Assembly will not even be able to hold a general debate on a law worth discussing and telling itself whether it is really an interest in this country to have one, two, three or more sports financed by the State or by public funds. And maybe sometimes look somewhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u83	I will decide on your proposal for a debate in the context of the votes. Another question was raised at the previous meeting of the Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport by Mr Jerko Čehovin on the topic of Kobilarna Lipica. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u84	I always wait for the question to come first, and I forget it's from the previous session. The corrective measures imposed by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia will be carried out in cooperation with the competent authorities as soon as possible and the issues at issue will also be settled. The report of the Interdepartmental Working Group was prepared. In fact, I signed it today and it was also put into government procedure today. In addition to the most appropriate form of organisation of the activities of Kobilarna Lipica will be included in the response report of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the Court of Auditors. The deadline for submitting this response report is 13. Seven. 2012 and we do not expect to be late in this regard. The separation of the position of guardian of the contract from membership in the world of Kobilna Lipica at the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport depends on the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, whose Ministry will be relevant to the public institution of Kobilna Lipica. The essence of the Court of Auditors’ idea is that it is necessary to set up one single department, whether it will be the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment or the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport. If the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, will no longer have the guardian of the contract for the public institution Kobilarna Lipica. However, if the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport is a department, it will, of course, propose a new member of the Public Service Council. There is no need to amend the law on Kobilarn Lipica to merge the public office of Kobilarn Lipica and Lipica tourism, d.o.o.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u85	Mr. Chehovin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u86	Mr. Secretary, thank you for your answer. It's a long way to save a monument as important as Lipica. Since 2007, we already have this legislation, and at that time this company for the management of the economic activity Lipica Turizm, which is somehow still associated with the public institution, was also established. Although you have answered in part, I must say that in these days we have also received in the National Assembly all Members a letter from Director Kobilarna Lipica, who reminds us all that the problems concerning the temporary financing of the public service of Kobilirna Lipica, which is the domain of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, and here I must say that I deeply agree that when there are more midwives, she is a bald child. In this case, too, this finding applies. It would therefore be true that the issue of Kobilar Lipica should be resolved in an appropriate manner and that a competent ministry should also be set up to take care of its legal obligations to its public institution, Lipica. Once again, it is one of the tourist pearls of Slovenia, it is the fact that we are ahead of the main tourist season and the situation in this facility, at least so warned me not only by the public but also by employees that there is also a type of pressure, I think the director is even aware of the mobile staff and so on. It's a condition that's not good and it's not good for what we're offering in this beautiful facility. That is why I think it is right that you really pay more attention to this than ever before, and that this response of yours, as soon as possible, also gets some deadline where we can talk about how the Government has taken this issue seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u87	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u88	Thank you very much. The date was given by the Court of Auditors, which is 13. Seven. You also asked about the problems pointed out by the Director regarding funding, in fact, your colleague Ivan Vogrin also asked this question, so that I will focus more on this issue by then. Otherwise, I agree. Lipica is an important cultural monument, but we must be aware that what is here is an inheritance are horses, not buildings. This will also result when we look for solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u89	Thank you. With this, both ministers have removed the backlogs from the previous session and we can move on to today's questions. The first question will be raised by Mr Dragan Bosic, Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u90	First, say hello to the minister or to the ministers and to all those who insist. Some of them gave up early. From the horses we would now go to the students, which today was German. She went well, I mean, the students wrote beautifully, let me know. You must be interested in that as a minister. But I'm interested in something else. School is an institution that has its own evolution. It's born, it's alive, it's dying, it's merging, it's disuniting, but it's usually done spontaneously, not under directives. And now some of the students who have been writing the graduation and waiting for their results, and that's their only concern, are in a privileged position before others, waiting for what will happen to their school. Whether the school they enrolled in would still exist or not, what would happen to it. I'm personally concerned about these students and the schools. In the first page of the graduation, it is written that they should trust themselves and their abilities and that they will come to a happy end after some established program. So I ask you, otherwise I must say that I have read your draft, which, as you yourself said, allows for some changes. But I want to know: Why and what schools do you intend to close or merge, change legal status, and what positive effects do you expect from this action? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u91	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u92	Thank you so much for asking. I'd like to make it very clear that we're not closing any schools. We don't close any schools, we just change their legal status. There is something about various secondary schools that have undergone such a change in Slovenia. The nearest one, I think, is right there on Ashkerchev. Our main purpose in this work is to provide a solid network of high schools for the next ten years. Demographics are unforgivable. The number of students in 2000 was 104 thousand 508. This year there were 79 thousand 901 and in 2020 there will be only 75 thousand. So for 30,000, the number of students on the number is decreasing by about 75,000. The reorganization has been followed in the past and, of course, the reorganisation is taking place today. In the last eight years, the Ministry has made six connections, fifteen reorganisations, seven mergers involving fourteen secondary schools, and eleven schools have become unified. It is the responsibility of the Ministry to make these things work, not the consent of trade unions at state level, but it is the task of directors to familiarise the union organisation at the level of the institution with the change. The greatest positive effect is that we keep the many deficit professions we need in the state and that we also keep teachers' jobs. This merger enables the survival of smaller, especially smaller vocational and professional schools, for example, saving a vocational school in Kočev, Montenegro, strengthening the network in Maribor. Major schools also allow vertical transition, for example, to higher schools, allow for greater selection, allow new programmes, facilitate competition in calls for funding from the European Social Fund. For high school to work normally, it has to have about 600 students. Such schools, in addition to the principal, are also owned by an assistant, an accountant and an appropriate other administrative staff under the applicable standards. The smaller school has no assistant, the principal is for all, and also has a lower share of all other staff, the principals are more burdensome. The list of schools published publicly on the Ministry's website, you say you've been looking. This is our plan this year to make things better. In short, it's all about the students' welfare and program maintenance. It is true, though, that sometimes we attach one or two small schools to a school, and it is very difficult to give this school a name that corresponds to a narrower specialization. We cannot give a name to a school that deals with technical knowledge after one of these technical knowledge that will be taught at this school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u93	Request for supplement, Mr. Bosic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u94	I cannot agree with these arguments in principle because you have cited cases of schools in Maribor to join small schools in a larger way, which is absolutely not true. Here is the example of the High School of Electrical Computing, which meets all the criteria that you have previously mentioned regarding the number of students, it is said that it is a school that is independent and able to function independently, which forms students who are already able as students with innovative projects to engage in the economy and this school joins the Technical School Centre of Maribor, which is a small centre, so it is a small school. This means that the case in practice is diametrically contrary to what you claim. Rumor has it that it makes sense for schools to unite, but the line before that says that schools don't unite. So the one who prepared the draft in two sentences does the opposite in a diametric way, says some illogical things. This case, if you comment on it, is actually the opposite of what you said.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u95	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u96	This case is not reversed. Look, this is about us joining together at this Maribor Technical School Centre and the Lesar School, which has 275 students. It is true, however, that the Central School of Electrical Computing has 862, and all of this can work very well. It's not about who we connect with, we think it's about a little bit of a prestigious fight. We are making a new form in which I hope that everyone will be equal, or those who have been better guided so far, will tell others how to do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u97	Mr. Bosic, a request for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u98	Yeah, absolutely. In view of who has been guided in any way, I propose that we discuss this in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u99	Thank you. This will be decided in the context of the votes. The following question is also addressed to the Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Turku. It will be installed by Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Mr Minister, when you took over the area of culture, which was combined with other activities, you tried to reassure the Slovenian public by saying that the area of culture would be taken care of at least as well or even better than before when there was a special ministry. And you don't seem to have much luck with that. One of the things that has recently been very exciting to the public is the proposal for a regulation on self-employed people in culture. The changes you are considering and should be adopted briefly in the field of criteria indicate a failure to respect the specificities of certain activities, a failure to respect the interdisciplinary activities of artists, a failure to respect the dynamics of professional careers and the excessive weight of subjective criteria, to list only some of the essential comments made to the regulation you have drawn up. Following these innovations, it must be seen that a broader story is being hidden and this suggests that opportunities for obtaining the right to pay social security contributions for self-employed people in culture will be reduced. Indeed, only by recognising the right to cover social contributions from the budget for self-employed people in culture do we take the first step towards equalising the rights to work and social rights of self-employed people in culture with those who are regularly employed in the field of culture. The granting of the right to pay social contributions essentially means equalising the socio-economic situation of self-employed persons with employed artists in culture, that is to say the first step they have to step forward so that they can actually act autonomously. According to the first analysis, these changes in criteria will have an impact on the drastic decline in the number of beneficiaries to pay their contributions. Many self-employed people will be forced to abandon their basic cultural activities and be suppressed into abusive forms of work. Their dependence on freedom and creativity, as required by their participation in culture, will be increased, directly destructive. It is also worth mentioning that the socio-economic situation is exacerbating. That's why I'm asking you: On the basis of what analyses has the draft amendments to the Regulation on Self-Employed Persons in Culture been prepared? And: Have you also assessed what the expected effects of the changes on the position of self-employed in culture will be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u101	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u102	Thank you very much. You see, it seems to me that this is one example of how we improve things in the field of culture. The amendment to the Regulation requires Article 86 of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. This provides that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, through a regulation, lays down more detailed criteria for the fulfilment of an exceptional cultural contribution, stressing the exceptional cultural contribution and contribution to the development of an area covered by the deficit profession at the level of each particular profession, which allows cultural creators to register as self-employed and for which they can also obtain the right to pay their contributions. The proposed amendment only details Article 9 of the adopted Regulation and is prepared on the basis of proposals and in the cooperation of the professional public. The debate was held with the professional public, with concrete proposals all housing societies and a large number of individuals responded. Many comments made made sense and were also taken into account. Article 9 of the Regulation, or the vague, over-the-counter criteria, has so far been overlooked by the expert commissions and, in practice, the assessment in individual artistic areas has been very different and very unbalanced. The introduction of professional criteria for an individual profession means a clear definition of the conditions for obtaining the right to pay contributions, allowing for a clear and transparent procedure for the allocation of rights and a balanced treatment of individual specialised professions in culture. The conditions for entry into the register of self-employed persons by adopting these criteria remain unchanged. The proposed amendments to the Regulation are not of a systemic nature. In the context of the amendment to the Regulation and the implementation of the criteria, we have carried out a smaller simulation of the evaluation in cases already positively resolved. The simulation shows that the method of evaluation allows for sufficient flexibility of assessors to take account of all the particulars of each profession and therefore does not have any negative effects. The Ministry is aware that there will also be a systemic approach to the area of self-employed people in culture, and we have also formed two working groups. One for self-employed people in culture and the other for NGOs, where a large number of self-employed people work. The working groups will set the objectives of a system-wide recast of the area and a comprehensive analysis will also be made to this end. Since this is a horizontal issue, the ministry will also be actively involved in future issues affecting the situation of self-employed people in culture and being part of other ministries, and will also examine labour legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u103	Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič, request to complete your response, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Yes, Minister, if everything is so perfect, then tell me why there are so many comments and disdains about the cultural scene over what you've prepared. You answered my question that the analysis wasn't done. You did a little simulation. What does that mean, a little simulation? How is it possible that these same cultural workers have made an accurate simulation that shows that in some areas, and to list them, these are areas of cultural participation of self-employed people in culture. This is said to be the area of painters, dancers, designers, cultural critics, architects, the number of those eligible for such ratings has reduced to one third of the current beneficiaries. If that's the case, then explain to me how to make such a big difference. On the other hand, you say that you have taken into account the comments of this interested group. However, you are reminded that some have been taken into account, and many, but those which are essential to avoid the consequences that I mention, have not been taken into account. That's why I'm asking you: What comments does the Ministry intend to include in the regulation? What measures and when will the Ministry manage the situation of self-employed people in culture in a comprehensive manner, as you predicted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u105	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u106	Thank you very much, even for the sublime. You mentioned, for example, architects, but in your previous reply you mentioned the problems that the social status of people causes either entering this register or receiving these refunds. The fact is that things need to be regulated more precisely because there is no unfair competition in the labour market between those who have to pay all their contributions, among those architects who, for example, are regularly employed in the offices and whose employers have to pay all their contributions, and those who live on the so-called artistic work and whose contributions are paid by the State and create unfair competition on the intellectual work market. This competition reduces the cost of creative work for everyone. By preparing clearer criteria, who is right to pay and who is not, we hope that the material position of the vast majority of creators in Slovenia will be improved, because we are only giving real and real value to this creative work.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u107	Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is more than clear that I am not satisfied with your answer. The differences between the statements made by the expert and your replies are too great, so in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask that the State Assembly hold a general debate on the Minister's response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u109	This proposal will be decided in the context of the votes. The next question will be posed by the Magus. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek, Minister for Infrastructure and Space of Mr Zvonet Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to say hello to everyone who's here! Dear Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr. Chernač, I ask you: How do you plan to address the problem of transit freight on sections of state roads where, due to the illiquidity of the reconstruction operators, they are not in line with the timetable? In particular, I point out the problem of the transit of heavy goods vehicles over 7,5 tonnes using other state roads to avoid toll payments, such as the G1-5 state road, which runs on the route Krško–Sevnica–Working through the Zidani bridge against the Roman Toplices and Lashkem, where reconstructions on certain sections of this road, in particular in the Wall Bridge, literally paralyze traffic, even now that the contractor has interrupted the reconstruction due to inequities from the section of the road, took the machines and left the road in impossible condition. On the part of the section of the road was removed asphalt coating, removed sidewalk, now macadam, holes, dust, condition is extraordinary. In terms of security of residence, noise, dust and harmful emissions, it is impossible for the population there. I sincerely thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u111	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u112	Thank you so much for asking. Thank you, too, for the opportunity to give public answers on this issue, which can indeed be a problem of one of the local environments in this particular case, but unfortunately, a similar problem is also taking place in some other sections where work is carried out, as well as where not, as far as heavy freight is concerned. It was mentioned that it is a section where reconstruction works are carried out in the arrangement of the Villa Cross on the main road G1-5 Celje–Krška in the Wall Bridge. The work is carried out by a company from Celje which has had a problem with obtaining a bank guarantee for the good performance of works. As a result, she was forced to withdraw temporarily from the construction site. We have tried to solve this problem to the greatest extent possible in such a way that the work could be carried out smoothly through the nomination of the appropriate subcontractor. If this fails, then we will be forced under the law to make a new call or will be forced to implement the Slovenian Directorate for Roads to choose the contractor to complete the works. All these circumstances constitute a certain disturbance, a very large disruption in traffic in the area. We note, however, that more and more construction operators are having major problems by providing appropriate formal conditions for the execution of works in accordance with the legislation in force, in particular in the part relating to the issue of guarantees. In this direction, consideration will also have to be given to whether a certain amendment of legislation could be possible, which would not therefore pose a problem in the enforcement of guarantees, in such a way that these problems would not arise in the future in view of the tight financial situation. However, in a specific case, I can answer that the current burden, as has been established, is problematic on individual sections of the G1 main road. Surely the most problematic section of this section through the Walls Bridge, which does not provide complete traffic safety, and individual technical elements of the road, until it is reconstructed in an appropriate manner, do not also correspond to the limits for the traffic of heavy goods vehicles. As a result of the problems encountered at the level of implementation of the works resulting from the fact that the road is in unfinished condition and resulting from safety or traffic safety in this section, it will, of course, be necessary to temporarily restrict the use of this road for heavy goods vehicles. In accordance with legislation and regulations, we have prepared at the Ministry everything necessary for this measure. At the end of this week or no later than the beginning of the following week, we are counting that a restriction on heavy goods vehicles in this section could be imposed. On the other hand, the Directorate will, of course, do its utmost to ensure that this temporary suspension of the works continues as soon as possible and also to ensure that the reconstruction is completed as soon as possible and that the reconstruction works are completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer? You don't want to. Thank you very much. Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mag. Radovan Žerjav will be asked the question of the Magi. Alenka Bratusek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u114	Nice greetings to all present! Minister, Mr. Zerjav, I ask you: Is the human resources policy of this government, which you are certainly responsible for, really real? Was your proposal really well - intentioned or were you really trying to separate the grain from the weeds and create some normal healthy business environment when you proposed and also adopted a law that deals with restricting the establishment, management and supervision of societies? For this is what you used to say at the time of the adoption of your marriage, when you were still sitting in this hall, you are doing something completely different today. Such a regime, as you proposed, creates conditions for more transparent management of companies and allows the most qualified managers to be included among the members of the management and control bodies of the company, who have shown good business results in their past work and have not been involved in the management of the companies on which insolvency proceedings have been initiated. This will directly improve the economic culture in Slovenia and will undoubtedly have an extremely positive impact on the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and the improvement of the economic situation in Slovenia, according to your law, Mr. Žerjav. Your government has appointed two members to one of the supervisory boards, who previously acted in the supervisory council of a society that has been in bankruptcy and left behind millions, ten million, I think even a hundred million debts. Mr. Zerjav, it's all okay for you, and it's no big deal. If I use your words, Minister Žerjav, I am appalled that someone can so vehemently defend the law and its positive effects when he sits here in the National Assembly, and when he becomes Minister, he forgets all this and does it completely differently. I am appalled that the practice of this government is that you ministers spoke one thing when you were here, now that you should show it by doing something else. Minister Žerjav, how can we believe that this is really about the positive effects on the competitiveness of our economy, because this is what you said when you defended your restriction law. You as a minister should be an example. Even if there was no law, we should do what is good for the Slovenian economy, because I believe you are the Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Minister Radovan Žerjav, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u116	Thank you very much for that question. Yeah. And I still advocate this solution, although the solution, as you know, is before the Constitutional Court, and I hope that the Constitutional Court will confirm this solution because I think that the Slovenian economy needs this solution. If you are asking about a specific case, please indicate it. As Minister of this government alone, I do not check all the human resources solutions proposed by my colleagues, nor do I read their CVs and so on, because this is simply not possible in time. If someone went wrong, it's wrong and it shouldn't have happened.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer, Master Brother? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u118	Minister Žerjav, I think you know very well what solution this is, because the press has already asked you about it. It is the appointment of two overseers to the Supervisory Board of the Housing Fund. You're a minister in this government, you're involved in the work of this government, I suppose now if you don't read the material coming to the government, that's your problem. Certainly in the work of the government, I understand, you're cooperating. So once again, I ask you: Why are you doing things differently today than you did when you proposed this law for 10 years? 10 years should be the limit to the work of the supervisor who participated in the company that is now in bankruptcy. This government is clearly not governed by the law you have proposed and adopted. The horror and the shock that you're repeatedly talking about, it's not going to help you today. Only we, once again, can be appalled and shocked that the Minister does not respect his marriage. A law he was so vehemently defending when he was still a Member of Parliament. Minister Zerjav, these actions of yours indicate that you are a great populism. When you were a Member, you said something, but when you become a Minister, your actions are completely different, because you need to put your people in the right places, even though this is bad for the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u119	Thank you very much. May the Minister of Mags please. Happy Zereva for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u120	If there's a populism here today, it's you. You know that. You know very well who is proposing to the board of directors of the Housing Fund. That this is not the Minister for Economic Development and Technology. That it's another minister. And I told you, every minister in his field is in charge of recruiting, proposing to those people at their own discretion who are supposed to be appropriate. Every minister who proposes, however, I have proposed a little, and in all my appointments I have taken into account my law, which unfortunately, I point out, unfortunately, is not in force at this point. You know that. And also this law, which was very radical and about which so much ink was spilled, said so many words, had, however, not to say an exception, but the possibility that those who have gone through such and other insolvency proceedings who prove that they are not guilty of this can run for office in the future. I don't know these cases because I didn't check them. I did not check them because, as Minister in charge of the economy, I am not a staff member of this government and I do not check all the staff carried out by other ministers. And you know it's always been that way. I'm afraid it's always been that way.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u121	Thank you very much for your answer. Do you want to set up or request an additional answer or discussion on the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u122	In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to hold a general debate on this matter. If the Minister sitting in the government does not know which people are appointed to various entities, and this is the Minister of Economy, I really think that a debate could be held in this national assembly. Even so, Mr Minister, if this law that you have proposed would not have been adopted, it would not have been, but not because the Constitutional Court is judging it; even if it had not been, I would have trusted the serious policy and the serious minister that, now that he has become Minister, he would have applied it. And the fact that you are not a responsible minister for this area does not bind you to the responsibility of this government's human resources policy as a whole. I ask that there be a vote on the debate being held on my very important issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of the votes. We're on the next question. Ms Maja Dimitrovski has a question for the Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žiga Turka. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. During the 2004-2008 term of the government of Janez Janša, the then cultural minister Vasko Simoniti unlawfully donated property in the Blejska island of the Church and leased the island for 45 years. However, the government, as we know, must not donate property without Parliament's approval. After leaving Simoniti, the Ministry of Culture immediately ordered a legal opinion on the disputed agreement and the process itself has been going on for almost three years. The first action by the State Defence against the County of Bled for the return of property was initially considered by the Court of First Instance for the purpose of planning possible investments and ensuring the regular maintenance of real estate. This first attempt was known to have failed due to a procedural error, as the state, as decided by the court, should also file an action against the Ljubljana archdiocese and not only against the Blaze parish. But when a second attempt followed last summer, the Court of First Instance no longer approved it. The main treatment should therefore start in January 2012, it was foreseen but was postponed for an indefinite period of time. I ask you, Mr. Minister: Why did they postpone the main hearing? What stage is the procedure? Can we expect the state to be defeated in court, or can even the lawsuit be withdrawn? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The answer is given by the minister, Dr. Giga Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u126	Thank you so much for asking. You used the word that Minister Simoniti or the former Yanshev government had done something illegal. Nothing like that has ever been found. You know exactly that at the time it was a judgment or you do not know that there was a judgment before the European Court of Justice and that the then government settled the dispute with the Roman Catholic Church. Now to your question. The District Court in Kranj is by judgment, but I will not mention the number of the case, of 31. 3. 2011 rejected that action of the State Defence Office of 27. 3. In 2009, with which the Ministry of Culture, according to the new Ministry of Culture, challenged the decision of the former Minister of Culture to establish the nullity of the agreement to close the proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights, thus ending the open questions of the denationalisation of the property recovery process of the Blejska Island and the management and management of the 4th. Ten. 2008 This court rejected the action for procedural reasons, as only County Bled was sued and Nadskofi Ljubljana, who co-signed the agreement, should also participate in the justice. The judgment cited has become legally binding 5. 5th of 2011. Consequently, the State Defence Office of the Republic of Slovenia, representing the Ministry of Culture, is on 14. 6. For the same reasons, 2011 reopened its application for annulment of the agreement and proposed the implementation of the same substantive evidence as in the previous procedure. The claim in this case was filed for 25. 4. 2012. However, since only legal matters are being decided, the claim was annulled on the basis of the consent of both parties, as all the evidence available has already been submitted and the court may issue a judgment without further delay as soon as possible. About where the court is right now, and I can't explain it to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u127	Thank you very much for your answer. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mrs. Maja Dimitrovski.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u128	Dear Minister! I am pleased with your answer, because we must first and foremost respect the rule of law in Slovenia. I am therefore surprised that you have given a negative opinion on the Law on Religious Freedom, which fully resolves the unconstitutional provisions of the law, with which you have also agreed, which you have not so much written back in your reply to the written question. Will you not support the law simply because it is proposed by Members and Members of the opposition – what about respect for the rule of law?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u129	Dr. Mark Turk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u130	Now I see why you asked something that you actually knew, so that you had a starting point to bring to this meeting of the Religious Freedom Act. In this regard, you should be reminded by the President that these are two different topics and that you have not questioned the question already asked. The Law on Religious Freedom, as you proposed, does not seem appropriate for further consideration, and we will also give a broad justification for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u131	Thank you very much for your answer. It's mag. Katarina Hočevar, who has a question sent to the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Zvonk Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u132	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all present! I refer the question to the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, concerning the management of multi-housing buildings in the Republic of Slovenia. In November 2011, amendments and additions to the Regulation on the Management of Multi-Apartment Buildings were adopted, which, inter alia, established in practice that 100 % of the consent of the floor owners was required, for example, for the renovation and isolation of buildings and other investments in residential buildings by means of a reserve fund loan. This change has proved to be extremely inanimate in practice and is impossible in the practice of block construction. For there is always an owner in a building that is not interested in rebuilding: whether the apartment is in a legacy, separation process or an upstairs owner does not even live on the address and so on. Also due to this amendment of the Regulation, works on multi-housing facilities have been suspended. Of course, even the loss of business of construction workers is not negligible. It would therefore make sense that the seventh indent of Article 14 of this Regulation, which provides that the owners shall unanimously decide on the borrowing and repayment of the loan under the liability of the reserve fund, shall be inserted in Article 13 of this Regulation, which provides for a three-fourths consent or a 75 per cent consent of the owners. Since the adoption or amendment of a regulation is within your purview, I ask you: What do you think or when will you settle the matter? In the Civil Gazette, we believe that this case is another of the bureaucratic flowers that are still abundant in our legislation. The removal would have no financial implications for the budget and would significantly facilitate the restoration of its property for citizens who are key owners. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Minister Tinker Bell, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u134	I also thank you for this question and the opportunity to clarify these open questions. I think two situations need to be separated. One situation is the consensus that is necessary for some work to be done, in which case this is not a 100 % consensus. But another situation is that you ask me when it is intention or intention to borrow a loan to carry out these works. Not because of the rule of law, but because of the real law and the housing law, it is provided for the consent of all or this loan and cannot be rented without the consent of those involved. The provision, as you mention, has also been highlighted as problematic because it is probably not implemented in the same way in all cases. If we look at only the formal reasons that I have already mentioned, the real law is the one that determines what consent is needed in these transactions and which transactions require a 50 per cent, a 75 per cent or the consent of all. Those transactions where less than 100 per cent of the consent is required are explicitly listed in the law and there is no borrowing of credits at the burden of the reserve fund. The law provides for the possibility of borrowing loans in such cases exclusively to the top-level owners, not to the administrator, unless that administrator is given the authority of all, it shall be said of all the top-level owners, since a third party cannot, without the power of the individual level-holder, decide on the conclusion of a loan contract, in particular not on the terms of the conclusion, costs and, most importantly, the guarantees that banks require to repay those loans. The reserve fund is the total assets of all the top-level owners and the joint owners are jointly responsible for the obligations arising from the common thing. This means that in the case of non-payers, others are also jointly responsible for the burdens of non-payers. In practice, as you mentioned, there are problems in implementing the provisions of this law. In this regard, some attempts have been made in the past, in what way these relations could be regulated in order to ensure, on the one hand, the normal performance of the works that are necessary and, on the other hand, the proper protection of individual high-level owners who do not refuse to do some work but do not want to bear the solidarity of the borrowing of a loan for the performance of these works. In practice, it would be possible for the manager to open a special account with the bank, through which these funds are then also obtained for the repayment of this loan. Those top-level owners who do not wish to participate in the repayment of this loan because they have their own means of paying these liabilities would probably be able to fulfil this obligation in an easy way. However, regardless of what I have just said, it is a fact that in practice these procedures do not take place as well as it would be appropriate for them to take place. For this reason, we will examine this situation again in detail and find a solution that will prevent, on the one hand, blockades in the execution of urgent works and those parts which constitute an added value on the common property, which this co-ownership in individual multi-housing facilities is, and on the other hand, the protection of those essential owners who do not need or do not want to participate in the hiring of a loan for the performance of these works, but can and want to settle their obligation under this Title with their own resources. Whether this amendment will have to be implemented in the form of an amendment to the law, or whether it will be sufficient for the stakeholders implementing this law and those overseeing it, in this case, to formally agree on these routes, will be demonstrated by practice. In any case, the experience of individual cases shows that where managers have properly organised and agreed, these works can already be provided under the applicable provisions on the one hand and on the other hand do not expose those top-level owners to this burden from a loan that they do not wish to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u135	Thank you very much for your answer. Mag. Majda Potrat wants to ask the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr. Žigu Turku a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! It is perfectly understandable that the founder decides what the school network will be like and in four decades these changes have been very large. The second question is how the school network is changing. And this is where my question begins. It is only on the excruciating reaction of the interested public and the professional public that the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport has made available information on what it intends to do – please be careful – up to 1. 9. 2012. But the information that's in the public eye is a little confused, if you don't mind. Because I don't know how to understand that once in agreement it's spelled "yes", twice "no" and the third time "understand". I don't know what to do with that "understand" thing. I don't know what I'm doing by talking about association on the one hand. I don't know what to do with the information that it's written, how many individual school students there are, and when I count the numbers, it's not right. In the case that higher education is taken into account, there are students in higher education, there are students in high school and there are students in high school, and there are eight points that have already been discussed by my colleague, Bosnic, which says that with the merger of these schools there would be 2 000 372 students in three schools. At my best, I've been counting, and there's a thousand 769. If I go to check at point 7, the school center of Slovenj Gradec is the sum of a thousand 463. What am I trying to say? Even with such figures, I cannot be counted with precision, so I ask the Minister: What criteria will be decisive for the abolition, association, or association of public secondary schools? I would be very grateful if I could hear these criteria because, say, before, it was said that 600 students were already quite normal for school. SERŠ – Central Electro-Computer School has 862. And then there's something else about this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by the Secretary of State, Dr. Giga Turk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I've been expecting a question about higher education in this place right now, but of course I'd be happy to add to the answer I gave you. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Look, we're gonna talk about both of these questions. Of course, you won't be satisfied with the answers, but you rarely are. Like I said, we don't close any schools, we just change their status. We're doing this to improve the school network. You need to know that high and high schools are financed on the head, that if we bring two schools together, we only allow the principal and the management of the school to spend more effectively the resources they receive, so that the human resources they have are more effectively distributed between students and students, students and students, and that they may also have some resources left to study, teaching aids and all sorts of other things. All students will be 1. 9. Going to the same location, to the same program, to the same teachers, the reorganisation of this network will not be noticed by parents, nor students. You said you didn't know what to do with the word "understand." The word "understand" means that they don't like it best, but that they understood the reasons that were explained to them by the Ministry, why we do it. And when you count those who agree, and those who understand, you will see that in the vast majority of these schools understand the Ministry's reasons for doing this project. As regards the addition, under point 3, Nova Gorica High School of Economics and Trade, 510, Nova Gorica Technical School Centre, thousands of 725. This all sums up nicely in 2 000 235, the 600 you mentioned, this is not the optimal size, I pointed out nicely, this is the minimum size in which secondary schools receive certain benefits at this number 600.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u139	I assume you'll request a supplemental response. Please, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u140	Thank you. I wasn't talking about New Gorica. I was talking about Maribor. But no problem, because there was a variant of what was to be combined at the Technical School Center, a very large number of versions, and probably some of them fell out of school. When we talk about the interest in vocational education, we forget that it is rightly encouraging if at a school some students still feel that they are identifying with their school, and with SERŠ they are sure. According to data published by the previous Ministry, of course, the SERŠ behaves with the best efficiency. But you, Mr. Secretary, were talking about mismanagement. They are in fourth place by number of students after the use of funds and by everything else. So in those old ugly totalitarian times, what the collective thought and what the students thought was worth mentioning and paying attention to. Now it's something you can easily ignore. Mr. Secretary, I really want to know: On what basis did your ministry prepare a proposal for amendments to the public school network and on what results is the assessment of the planned savings based? Because if such a banal thing as the number of students is wrong, then I really want to know what analysis was the basis for such a decision. However, to combine the meatronico into the Technical Center, where the problem is to move from one school to another school, to explain that students from one direction to another could also read it. So don't say students won't get worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Complementary response, Minister Giga Turk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u142	No, absolute students won't get worse. For students, nothing changes completely. In the perspective of a next generation of students who, due to the decline in interest in certain programs that would not be able to enter a school at all, this school will still offer them these programs, because it will be able to exchange teachers with neighbouring programmes, which are stronger, where there is a greater interest, where they can share teachers, where they can have certain subjects together and so on. In Slovenia we have a bunch of so-called school centres that have been created in the same or the same way and that work perfectly. You're asking me what the collective thinks. Look, changes are always so that those who seem to lose something when they change, of course, very strongly protest. In that subtle of questions about self-employed people in culture, the loudest of course are those who fear that they will lose their status, because the criteria will only be such that they will not reach them. And, I'm sorry, I didn't say anything about any particular school being poorly run. I didn't say that about any of them.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u143	Thank you so much for complementing the answer. Do you have a procedure? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u144	Thank you. We could vote once and for all because our colleague, Bosic, has already proposed that we discuss the Minister's response, but I think it is necessary to say. Mr. Minister will be able to read in the magnetogram whether he was talking about better guidance or not, but that's not even relevant. Students have a group of students, the diocese community opposes, not just teachers who oppose. The appointment of the principal of this school has been suspended. Now I could tell you how many mistakes have been made. I am appalled that a new practice has been introduced at the Ministry in fact in part in private communication with the professional public, as writing on Twitter and blogs cannot replace some normal official communication. The same way that it cannot replace the individual call of officials to the ministry and uncontrolled, and all this then is so that as an individual is responsible, and now an individual can be declared a difficult person rather than the problem that we are talking about. We're talking about going into big combinations, I'm going to say, to join the school centers with a brand name. And we hear from the competent minister that these are prestigious questions. I think we need to talk about this, and we need to get to know the criteria by which this is happening. There's a big school going to join a small school. And a third smaller one, I'm not talking to you about the fact that the fourth merger school was proposed. But it's done without serious consideration. Those who want to get on their feet are, of course, quiet and I think that in this way we cannot function in a democratic society because we are talking about a good school with a teacher standing or falling. Are we going to have a lower standard at school now? This is just a roadblock for changing standards and standards. Complementing the obligation from one school to another is without connection, without combining already existing and established practice. Therefore, it is not necessary to make these manoeuvres, which are now proposed by the Minister. That is why I think that his response should be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be voted on by the National Assembly in the framework of the votes. Mrs Tamara Vont will ask the Minister of Defence, Mr Aleš Hojs, a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u146	Thank you very much. At the NATO Summit, Slovenia pledged to contribute money to the AGS system of the Alliance or to the component of the so-called "smart defence". And from Northrop Grumman, the alliance will buy five drones of spy aircraft, or else I don't know why they got the name "trots" and mobile stations to run them. For the time being, the project is expected to be worth, if I know correctly, 2 billion, and Slovenia is expected to contribute the bad 7 million, unless of course we take into account hundreds of thousands more to maintain this system. That's why I'm asking Defence Minister Hojs: What are some valid or specific reasons for us to participate in this project? I say now that the argument of international credibility will not suffice. We don't have a free daycare for another child, we plough pensions, we pay, we cancel the embassy, but we have money for drones, in a country you fly in a few hours with a balloon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I ask for the answer of Mr Aleš Hojs, Minister for Defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u148	Dear Member, I hope that the strong arguments will be the commitment that governments have made to the Alliance in the past. That's why I have to go back to history. The air surveillance project began to take place after the end of the Gulf War there in 1991, 1992 when the Allies realized that not only those reconnaissance, command and other functions available from land were sufficient in their combat operations, but that the force would be appropriate if the so-called Air Ground Survey had been established, that is to say, land control from the air. The Alliance carried out a number of project tasks between 1992 and 2000, calculated, implemented in terms of project documentation, and somehow calculated in those years that such a project would cost approximately EUR 3.4 billion. At the 2002 enlargement summit in Prague, all those potential candidates were also offered to participate in a package of so-called "smart defences" or "smart defences". In 2002, the Slovenian government, who led it at the time, you probably know, decided to participate in this project. In 2002, Slovenia made a commitment to join. In 2007, the Alliance found that this project was too expensive. It severely reduced the project documentation, eliminated Airbus's aircraft and, similarly, after a contraction, found that such a project would be reduced and can be completed by around EUR 1.2 billion at a lower cost, and the NATO project board limited the project's ceiling to EUR 1.4 billion, which means that the project cannot be implemented through this amount. In 2009, Slovenia – that is to say under the former government, the former government, when it has already explained to a great extent that we are in a severe economic crisis and that there is no money – committed itself to participating in the project and that it will also provide adequate funds for the project. These funds were moving at a constant price of €5.7 million in 2009, and today these funds are at the level of €6.8 million, and Slovenia has only confirmed at the summit of the Alliance what has already been agreed, of course I am talking about the summit in Chicago. This does not mean that I as the defence minister oppose this project, nor does it mean that I blame anyone from the previous government, because in my opinion, this project is one of the projects that proves that, through "smart defence", by pooling forces, it is possible to lower defence costs both in our country and in the alliance. The project itself is expected to take place in the nine-year phase, so it is expected to be completed by 2017, if I convert the costs that fall into Slovenia into around €700,000 at the annual level, just over €600,000 Slovenia has already paid for this project in recent years. I am the 2 million-and-a-half-euro Circus calling on a supplier at the Ministry of Defence on existing contracts; I have therefore called on all suppliers on existing contracts to reduce the prices they have reached in public tenders over the last three years. The response was good. We have received more than two million euros on the basis of this call, so a good part of the funding has already been covered for the next three years. I would also like to make it clear that about 60-70 % of our contribution to this project is intended — not for so-called anti-procurements, but for inclusion. Slovenian companies are expected to participate in this project. One of the Slovenian companies, the former Hermes Softlab, is already involved in the project. As the Ministry of Defence, we do not talk to the producers themselves, but we have information that the works or contracts that Slovenian companies are supposed to sign in the project run in line with future plans.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Even though you said you would not refer to the conclusions of the previous government, you started the answer exactly with that. But, you know, the conclusions can be changed; even if the decision of the Venice Commission is taken, they are changed. I don't think there's any problem. You haven't even answered my question. Is it possible to withdraw from this project? Can you also list countries that have already resigned? It is interesting that a few much richer countries than ours have already withdrawn from this project. In the United States, it has been found that these aircraft we are talking about are too expensive and that their maintenance is very expensive and that they are mostly grounded and then offered to others. And here to talk about this discount we got, I think it's a little funny. On the other hand, there is an increasing controversy about the morality and ethics of this work, especially for those aircraft equipped with weapons. I don't know, every week we hear how many civilians were killed with these planes. I know this plane of ours isn't supposed to have this, but I'm actually curious: What do we really get out of this? Wouldn't we get more if we started with helicopters with emergency medical care, with which we have constant problems? But no, we're dealing with drones! Are we actually solving the consequences of the financial crisis for the alliance and the consequences, in order to somehow find its purpose in this new challenging time, which is simply not a match for him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Minister Aleš Hojc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u152	Now, honourable Member, you said at first that I must not tell you that I am satisfied with this or [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u153	Minister, a moment. Please turn it off, thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u154	If I say so again. At first, honourable Member, you said that I should not talk about how this project met NATO's obligations, I started with historical facts, and I said that I did not refer to anyone. So, the historical facts are the same as I told them. But what you're asking is true, I have to say now, which, of course, also fulfils our obligations to NATO. The members participating in the project are Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Estonia, Germany, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Norway, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia and the United States of America. In the meantime, Poland, Turkey, Denmark and Canada stepped out of the project, and both Poland and Denmark reentered the project. So only Turkey and Canada formally stepped out of the project. What does Slovenia get? I'm not talking about the military use of these pilots, I'm talking about the sense of space control; none of these planes are equipped with weapons, so it's not military action. All members will have the opportunity to use these unmanned aircraft to control their space, land borders, maritime borders, humanitarian convoys — not least in some countries — of piracy, but above all, it seems important to me that this control, air control, can control or solve things even in the case of elementary, natural and other accidents.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u155	Procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u156	Yes, procedurally. Not really, because it doesn't make sense to discuss this, because I've already heard the answers; but I don't know how we're going to control our borders with the jets, I don't know, I can't imagine it, so I prefer to withdraw, because it just doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u157	Yes, in this case, you've made little use of the rules of procedure. Okay, thank you very much. It is Mrs Jasmina Opec who wants to ask the Minister for Infrastructure and Space Mr Zvonk Cernač a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u158	Thank you very much for your word and a very nice greeting to everyone. Dear Minister! The State Road R2-441/1298 Murska Sobota-Gederovci, approximately 10 kilometres long, is considered to be the pomurska road of death or one of the most dangerous traffic sections in Pomurje. It is an exceptional road in Pomurje, as it represents a western divide in the city of Murska Sobota and connects the western part of Gorička with the flat part of Prekmurje and the density of traffic has increased in recent times also at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who migrate to the Republic of Austria on a daily basis. The road is destroyed, full of holes, with inadequate banks, and with the absence of a cycling track and sidewalk, the traffic of bikers and pedestrians is completely disabled. Let me give you some more black statistics. During the period 2001-2012 693 traffic accidents took place on this road involving thousands of 332 persons, 7 persons were fatally injured and 42 were seriously injured. In the last three weeks, the road is once again a victim’s road, since 1 person died in three car accidents and 3 were seriously injured. I am convinced that the road requires swift and urgent restoration, for it endangers the lives of all who follow it and all who live with it. So, Mr. Secretary, I ask you: When can we expect a complete reconstruction of the state road R2-441/1298 Murska Sobota-Gederovci? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Minister Zvonko Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u160	Thank you very much for this question. The problem of reconstruction, reconstruction of state roads is a problem that has been going on for a long time and concerns the practical network of state roads throughout the country. In some parts, it is slightly better, in some cases slightly worse, but it has been estimated years ago that if we wanted to modernise and renovate the transport network in the state roads area in a timely period of five to ten years, about 300 million euros would be needed at annual level. Of course, there is no money; it has not been for many years, nor has it been in times when economic growth has been significantly more intense than it is today when we were growing up, when we did not fall as we did in previous years. Out of these approximately 170, 180 million euros of state money for these purposes, we are somewhere around 152 million euros this year. In one part, in view of the rules laid down at the level of use of European funds for these purposes, in order to modernise this network, in particular where major interventions are concerned, European funds from the current financial perspective will also benefit to the greatest extent possible, and something similar will also take place between 2014 and 2020. In doing so, it is very important that we have within the next half-year a fairly accurate programme with a correct timetable within which these interventions can be carried out and thus set up projects to also justify the conditions for this co-financing. As a result, in many areas individual fragmented projects are being pooled. In this way, we estimate that in the coming period, which is beyond our government's mandate, there could normally be some conclusion by 2020 on the final modernisation, modernisation and upgrading of the state road network, including all those expectations that are across local communities. With regard to this particular section, two projects are under way. One of these projects is the state cycling link Murska Sobota-Gederovci, section Věčica-Vanča Vasa, project number 08 to 0013, which has been running for some time since 2008, when the project was designed for implementation, which was reviewed a year later. At that time procedures for land purchases were also initiated. During last year, tender documentation was prepared for the full implementation at R2-441, section 1298, from a kilometre of 3 000 720 in the length of 2 000 600 meters and 2 km of 600 meters, but due to known financial constraints no work was carried out. This year, the tender documentation was adapted only for the performance of the section's work, namely the remote cycling link D4 Murska Sobota-Gederovci, section Věčica-Vanča village in section 1298, from kilometre 3 000 720 in approximately half the length of the originally planned section of the thousand 320 meters. The invitation to tender is currently published on the portal, the project is led by the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. And the second part, reconstruction of the road Gederovci–Murska Sobota-Rankovci from a kilometre of 3.7 length 2 thousand 140 meters and from a kilometre of 5.84 length 4 thousand 310 meters, where it is envisaged to produce project documentation for the reconstruction of the vehicle and the construction of the cycle path. The investment is made documentation at DIP level, and a project task is also created.This year, in April, it was confirmed at the level of the Road Directorate. Thus, at the initiative of the municipality of Tišina, which received this documentation for review or is not even on the move, this documentation has already been received by the municipality, so that further procedures will run in terms of the execution of the public contract or the projects of the documentation and the implementation of the investment itself over the coming years. Unfortunately, according to very small resources available.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u161	Thank you very much for your answer. The next question will be asked by Mr Jožef Kavticnik, the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, mag. Andre Vissiak, who is excusedly absent. Would you like to ask an oral question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. Even so, Minister Mag. There is no visionary, the problem remains, so I would like to point out this problem. It is evident that the population in our country and in general in Europe is ageing. Older people are left alone, often sick and in need of help. Their loved ones are either employed or perhaps living in difficult social conditions, so it is necessary to take care of them. Questions arise as to how we will care for the elderly in our country. As we know, in many countries in Europe, especially in Scandinavia, this is well taken care of. They have excellent organized care for the elderly. In the 2008-2011 mandate, the law on long-term care and insurance of older persons has been a public debate for a day, so I ask the Minister – and since he is not here today, I want him to give me an oral answer at the following meeting: In what way and in what time will you prepare a comprehensive overhaul or a comprehensive system of long-term care and care in the Republic of Slovenia, which is becoming an increasing problem in the protection of the elderly due to social, demographic indicators? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u163	Thank you very much. As you wish, the Minister will answer you orally at the next meeting. Mr Peter Wilfan will ask the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u164	Nice greetings to all present. Dear Minister, Dr. Giga Turk! My question will be from an area to which you have answered many times and many times in these days, but I have not yet received the right answer for me. Let's go in one order. The Court of Auditors issued a negative opinion to the Sports Foundation on the regularity of the Foundation in 2010, because it did not distribute the lottery funds transparently. The audit shows that they have incorrectly divided – and this information needs to be highlighted – not a few thousand or ten thousand euros, but more than 2.4 million euros. According to the Court of Auditors, the Sport Foundation did not provide adequate grounds for the work of the Foundation's bodies, as it did not define in advance the financial evaluation of the programmes and did not set out the rules and criteria for the allocation of funds on sport activities programmes and the construction of sports facilities. In the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia is not surprised by the negative opinion of the Court of Auditors, but we are rightly afraid that irregularities will continue to increase. Under the leadership of the current Director of the Sports Directorate and Director of the Sports Foundation at the time of the irregularities identified by Mr Drag Balent, a proposal was also made for the amendment of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, which abolishes the function of Director of the Sport Foundation, while employees who perform administrative tasks for the Foundation are employed at the Ministry by the amendment of the law. The latter will be preparing a proposal for the allocation of funds, so the fear of policy interference is certainly not too much. It also addressed the composition of the Sport Expert Council and the composition of the Sports Foundation Council. In Positive Slovenia, we are convinced that this is an obvious case of politicisation and an attempt to subjugate not only sports but also fund-raising. All these solutions will in no way have a positive impact on the greater independence and transparency of the activities of the Sports Foundation. My question is this. Given that you seem to have a great deal of faith in Mr. Drag Balent and in his abilities, I am interested in: How do you personally comment on the negative opinion of the Court of Auditors of the Sport Foundation?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Dr. Giga Turk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u166	Thank you so much for asking. You have rightly found that the Court of Auditors is primarily citing or criticising the absence of a properly broken down rule. We spoke a little earlier in the area of self-employed people in culture, where we try to break down the rules more, but someone does not like such a breakdown, so it would be good to consider which direction or what we really want. But now I'm going to your question, the answer to it. The Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport has no direct formal link with the Sport Foundation, since under Article 15 of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, the supervision of the operation of the Sport Foundation is fully in the hands of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors’ opinion relates to the operation of the Foundation in 2010. In the Court of Auditors’ view, in some cases the Sports Foundation would not have properly broken down rules on the terms and criteria for the allocation of funds, and it should be said that, before or before this year, the rules were still significantly less fragmented, since there was no change or introduction of regulations until these years at all. In some areas, the Council of the Sport Foundation is expected to distribute funds through vaguely defined and verifiable procedures and evaluation calculations, and in some cases the Board of Appeal is not expected to have the appropriate basis for assessing applications or to adopt conclusions on the Board of Appeal. In short, the Court of Auditors would like the formulas to be clearer to make it more out of numbers, less out of, say, professional or subjective opinions. On the basis of this report, the Sports Foundation is required to submit to the Court of Auditors, within nine days, a response report showing corrective action, to the Court of Auditors, to draw up detailed rules for the allocation of funds on various programmes and to draw up an act on the rules of operation of the Board of Appeal. Consent to the rules shall be given by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The Ministry will cooperate in all these activities in accordance with its competences and will support the efforts of the Sport Foundation Council to resolve the issues raised by the Court of Auditors. He has no other powers with regard to the Sport Foundation of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u167	Mr. Peter Wilfang is asking for a reply. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u168	Mr Minister, despite your reply and the reasons or matters that you consider to be answering all my questions, I must say that I still cannot get rid of the feeling that the Sports Foundation, and above all the autonomy of sport, is not looking forward to a very good time. It is clear that this already tabled amendment of the Law on Property Transformation of the Loteria Slovenije, in which the Olympic Committees of Slovenia and other stakeholders have been excluded, is related to this negative opinion of the Court of Auditors. Even before the Court of Auditors ruled on the operation of the Sports Foundation, the anti-corruption commission also raised concerns about the amendment of the law. These concerns are linked both to the change in the selection of members of the Sports Foundation Council and to the transfer of the administrative part of the Foundation under the auspices of your mega ministry. Also today's decision on this rapid procedure, or the confirmation of this rapid procedure in the adoption of this law, confirms that you, I don't know why, are in such a hurry and that you do not really want some normal, in-depth and reasoned debate. I myself believe that Mr Balent should take responsibility for the irregularities or infringements found in the Sports Foundation, as he, as Director, is directly responsible for its legitimate conduct. I want to know: Will you consider the appropriateness or suitability of Mr Balent in the position of Director of the Sport Directorate, or will you really withdraw this sign from him in the near future and thus finally entrench him in one of the most important positions in Slovenian sport? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Please, to supplement your response, Minister Giga Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u170	I do not really know these internal situations in the Slovenian sports sphere; what is the lobby on the one hand, on the other hand, why Mr Balent is so thorny in your heel. After all, he was in high positions under very different colored governments. In my opinion, the autonomy of sport is looking forward to better times. Instead of fully delegating to a body all together the Olympic Committees composed by sports associations, these sports associations could have a direct impact on the composition of this body. I also do not want to comment in detail on these Court of Auditors rulings because I am waiting for what will be the answer from the Sports Foundation, what will be the response report, in which they will probably argue or show their side of the medal. However, with regard to the Foundation’s Director, it is necessary to say that according to Article 17 of the rules of the Sports Foundation, it is very clear in this article that the Director can only have the resources of the Foundation for the purpose and extent defined by the Council of the Foundation for Sport with Decisions. In short, the distribution of funds to whom, what, when, how much the Council decides, the director is more or less the person who then manages it administratively and otherwise. As a matter of fact, this moment is a difficult time for me to understand all these attacks on Director Balent. However, I will probably have to learn a lot about such and different networks in sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u171	Thank you very much for your answer. Mrs Marija Plevčak has a question for the Minister of Finance, Dr Janez Šuštersič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u172	Nice greetings to all, especially to the Minister. Within a short period of time and at two marathon meetings of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, a package of legal regulations was approved by the Public Finance Balance Act, as well as by the National Assembly. Most of the changes relate to the reduction of the rights of the people of Slovenia. There were 14 items on the revenue side, but we know they will not have an immediate and sufficient impact. The government is also looking for solutions on this revenue side. However, I must ask you the following question: Why does the Government, or the Ministry of Finance, not show any interest in requiring the competent authorities to investigate, by means of a rapid procedure or immediately, all mass cash flows from already known tycoon actors and all other undiscovered frauds from all the good companies' gravediggers who have invested their money in banks abroad and other tax havens? I am confident and also aware that both the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia have available documentation. They also have a record of banks that have contributed to irregularities by approving very large loans "in good faith", as well as all records of developments in transaction accounts. I don't know if all of this involves a policy that doesn't show any interest in detecting all these irregularities as soon as possible and bringing them back to the budget and to the real economy; to the point where they have drained away. I think you are all familiar with the cases of Germany and Austria, which have sought hidden and hidden funds in banks in Switzerland and have obtained substantial sums of money in their budget. I don't think the Slovenians can or won't do that. Is the protection of privacy so "strong" that it makes it impossible for us to do so? Our voters, regardless of their clientele, are very disappointed over all the events and are monitoring our developments here in Parliament. I ask for a concrete answer: Why is it not, or when, in this area, a thorough study will begin with us and the findings of a personal responsibility? I reiterate: a personal responsibility that we do not yet know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Minister Janez Šušteršič, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u174	Your Honor, thank you for your question. The tax administration or tax procedure is the body most responsible in the field of the Ministry of Finance. In this context, much has already been done, both the examination of transfers to so-called tax havens and the exchange of data with other countries, including Switzerland, which you have mentioned. On this basis, too, there is not only an exchange of information, but also additional inflows into the budget, which are referred to as additional tax liabilities. As you wanted, we asked for specific, precise information from the Tax Administration on this. Let me give you a few, because it's numbers, but I'm going to read them a little bit. First thing about dealing with tax havens. Here the Tax Administration has occupied 29 countries, reviewed transactions over or near 10 thousand debtors, about half of the natural, half of the legal entities. Of course, not all these tax avoidance transactions mean anything, but they don't mean anything that's illegal, but directing money abroad is something that's legal until it goes, let's say, in our case, to avoid taxes. On the basis of this transaction information, it is said that the Tax Administration has carried out some review, which is the most risky debtors or the most risky transactions. About 350 controls have been carried out so far. Some 11 million additional tax liabilities were identified or imposed. Second thing. I mentioned an international exchange of information. Slovenia has 47 agreements on the avoidance of double taxation, where this exchange of data is also covered. There are also two agreements that are specifically about the exchange of information. At this meeting of the National Assembly, you will probably ratify two more such data exchange agreements. Based on this – say, here I have data for 2011, when close to 10,000 different tax information on the incomes of Slovenian residents abroad was reported to Slovenia. That's what you say, these things are going on. The special chapter here is interest, on the basis of the so-called interest directive, where it is the case that countries where residents of other countries, such as Slovenians abroad, have a role, this country makes a tax withdrawal and directs this money to Slovenia. In 2011, a million and a half euro came into the Slovenian budget, a large part of it, including from Switzerland, and an additional dose based on data not listed here, close to 100,000, which is less, but it is important that this main data exchange and withdrawal-based referral take place. Two more things just to mention. Where this is not possible to establish on the basis of these data, the Tax Administration also verifies suspicion, there are situations where there is a clear imbalance between property and expenditure of people where expenditure is greater than income or property. Close to 400 such investigations were ongoing, more than 100 completed, dosed. There may be other complaints and other procedures, but some 16 million Euros of additional commitments have been made. In addition, special attention was also paid to these so-called companies serving as postal containers, including in this context, inspections imposed on around 5 million additional tax liabilities. As a matter of fact, that's what the inspectors found out. Not all procedures are likely to be completed at all stages, but these data indicate that some work is being done here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u175	Thank you very much for your answer. Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mag. Radovan Žerjav will be asked the question of the Magi. Diane Jedhan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u176	Chairman, nice greeting. Dear fellows and colleagues, welcome to you as well! Dear Minister Žerjav, the rest of the ministerial team also give you a nice welcome! This question may not be so interesting for all of Slovenia, but it is true that local communities also have problems that mean a lot to them. Minister, I'm sure you're familiar with the case in the municipality of Gornja Radgon. The municipality of Gornja Radgona initiated the land transfer procedures for the implementation of the Project jointly implemented with neighbouring Austria in the area under transfer long before the project was notified and granted European funds. The first application for the transfer was submitted by the municipality in 2004, and in 2010 it was invited to complete the application. Today, the role is complete and has all the consent of the current operators and the complications of the procedures related to the transfer of land at the former border crossing for development purposes in accordance with the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development, which impedes the acquisition of a building permit, as this is only related to settled land affairs. This puts EUR 1.7 million at risk. The time for implementation of the project is running out, the use of funds is seriously threatened, including on the Austrian side. Dear Minister, I ask you: When can the municipality expect to complete the transfer procedures and sign the contract? I thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u177	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer from the Minister of Mags. Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Pursuant to Article 29 of the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development, in 2011 and in part in 2012, municipalities submitted proposals for the free transfer of real property to local communities to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government and regional policy. Real property is transferred under the law with a view to the use of this property for development purposes. The procedure for transferring free real property to municipalities is now in charge, as you yourself said, of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Following the adoption of the budget balance, which includes the annual real estate management plan, the Ministry shall continue the procedures for the free transfer of assets to the municipality. Currently, the Ministry has 32 applications from individual municipalities in the resolution process. In the light of Article 29 of the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development, the Ministry must verify in the transfer process whether the specific assets will be used for development purposes and, above all, certain criteria which do not need to be specifically mentioned must be met. As regards the specific case of the municipality of Gornja Radgon. In view of the procedures to be followed in this free transfer of real property under Article 29 and the adopted national budget balance, this particular procedure has already been initiated for the transfer of assets to the municipality of Gornja Radgon. Several ministries have been involved – infrastructure, finance, customs administration, justice – applications have been sent to obtain agreement on this free transfer of assets, so that I do not see any reservations that this matter would not be resolved relatively quickly in the good of the municipality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u179	Thank you very much for your answer. Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar will be asked a question by Mrs Saša Kos.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! Dear Minister! The fact is that, according to our assessment, the Public Finance Balance Act has severely affected the area of patients' rights and, indirectly, the accessibility of health services. At the meeting, they pointed out a partial measure in the area of supplementary health insurance, where you deleted the regular bodies that monitored the rise and eligibility of supplementary health insurance premiums. We already know today that the insurance companies offering this insurance will raise the premiums and you, as minister, can no longer influence the very price of the insurance. This means that the premiums will increase for all, regardless of individual income, meaning that you are deliberately moving away from the solidarity system and indirectly from universal or equal access to health services. Moreover, we know that Slovenia does not reach the European Union average for health financing. Despite financial crises, EU Member States have agreed that the social values of public health systems, such as solidarity, social justice and universal access to rights, must be strengthened and developed, not reduced or curtailed, as you are doing today with your actions. I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General: How will you ensure, in the context of the planned health reforms, a stable financing of health services while ensuring that health remains the most important part of the individual’s national well-being and well-being in the future? The basic objective of all public health systems, particularly in EU Member States, is therefore to ensure access to justice at an appropriate quality level for all people identified by EU legal documents as a universal right. In Positive Slovenia, we believe that health care must remain a public good, so in the context of universal accessibility, it is necessary to immediately adopt or create a new network of health service providers, set new standards and standards that will also take all postulates into account in the future and take into account the constitutional provision that says Slovenia is a social state. When will these questions be resolved, or what are the plans to resolve these shortcomings or problems? In the light of the fact that in the context of the so-called austerity measures, and with an ad hoc amendment, without regard to the professional and other interested public, you have reduced the percentage of public funds for a particular basket of so-called health services. As a result of your rush under the mega law, some even claim that a constitutionally questionable law, for example, has made access to certain medical devices more difficult.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Minister Tomaž Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u182	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Messengers and Members! When I listen to the impressions given the proposals that have also been adopted in the framework of the ZUJF, it seems to me that sometimes we talk about different things. In fact, there is a mention of a violation of rights. I'd like to hear at least one right between those who are about to be eliminated or changed. I have to tell you, there is not one single single male among them who would be removed from the basket or from anything. It was here that there was always emphasis, even when we were preparing the Public Finance Balance Act, that, of course, we are saving, first of all, the health treasury, which is in a difficult situation due to actions in the past years that were not easy to do, and that we have therefore intervened on the measures that we have dispersed to the operators, to the Health Insurance Office and, of course, to us, to the insurers. Another claim is here, which is very questionable or you are talking about maintaining solidarity. But I'm saying that solidarity in the health system has long been gone. The first intervention, which was done in this direction, was for the same reasons as we now had to solve the health bills, it is said to be always new rights, new technologies, new drugs and so on, and on the other hand all that fell into the health treasury, which is not justified; but here are specialisations and intrusions due to the pay system, as well as a number of other things, homes for older citizens, where the health insurance company has no influence and so on. All these were the reasons for the cost in health care, and these were also the reasons why the first biggest break-in even in the pockets of us insurers came from the establishment of the Mutual Insurance Company. And then the other extra insurance. Now you expect me to do what I have to do to resolve problems that have not been addressed in the context of health reform or legislation for the past ten, fifteen years, at a time when we are talking about health reform. Therefore, once again: as far as the existing Public Finance Balance Act is concerned, all the rights that have been maintained to date, we have maintained accessibility and we have tried to maintain quality so as not to prolong the waiting period and to avoid the collapse of the funding system. To pay more than on average in the European Community – that is already a fact. There has also actually been some increase in premiums for the cost of getting some time to really start discussing the basket of rights, solidarity, in what way in social dialogue. Let me give you some examples. When we talk about a basket of rights, we will actually have to decide, because there will be no additional insurance in the same way. We will have to decide what we will do with the contribution rate, because there is no solidarity here today; we pay differently and we all use our rights equally. On the other hand, those with high wages do not pay any more for health insurance after all these years. So, where do you see solidarity or the solidarity that you're asking me about? You're long gone. So we just have to build it. This will not be easy, it will be necessary to adopt at least these two reform laws, the Protection and Health Insurance Act and the Health Act. And also here, I believe there will be no lobbying on your part, because here we will have to decide: whether we will go to the equalization of the health care base that is not today, which means hundreds of millions at the annual level – I do not know if they will all support it, I am not sure; there are farmers, there are pensioners and many other categories – whether we will go to the expansion of the contribution base, where we will have to cover, I don't know, copyrights and other contracts, where we are talking about a lot of money again. That is to say, these will be areas that we will have to deal with and include in all this also what Mr Kavtičnik asked, a law on long-term care, which is, of course, part of this and which is partly covered by the resources of the Health Insurance Office.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u183	Thank you very much for your answer. Do you want to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u184	Dear Minister! In your coalition contract you have announced certain activities, namely, the public network will also be complemented by concessions to be awarded on the basis of public tenders and contracts for a period of time. I'd like to know, Mr. Secretary-General: On what criteria, in which area and at what level will you grant concessions? Will the basis for the provision of health services remain public goods, or will you, in accordance with your market policy, also introduce market legality in the health sector, primarily for private institutions? Your coalition contract also mentions the so-called competition between individual public institutions and payment for the service performed. I'm asking you: Do your intentions, where it is based exclusively on speed and low price, not lead to lower quality health services? And most importantly, you've committed yourself to changing health insurance. I'm asking you: In what way will you regulate the area of supplementary health insurance and how do you plan to introduce a larger number of compulsory insurance providers? The Coalition Treaty clearly states that you will examine the market for compulsory insurance in comparable countries of the European Community and, if these solutions prove appropriate for Slovenia, introduce a system for a larger number of compulsory insurance providers. Let me tell you, this is actually about a fugitive who does not bring accessible and quality healthcare to the insured.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Minister, Mr. Tomaž Gantar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u186	There are still a number of new issues that are not directly related to previous issues, but nothing serious. So, as far as concessions are concerned, they are the subject of the Health Act, which we will be dealing with here on a regular basis and will probably be a lot of speech. The fact is, the current law is flawed and we're going to have to make some changes here. This is not only about medical concessions, but also in the wider field. We will also propose this in agreement with the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration. I, too, continue to defend and claim that health is a public good and that we will also include a system of solidarity in any case. Today, to predict exactly what kind of funding will be, whether there will be one or more insurance companies, would probably be unrealistic on my part. You know, in the past, great laws have been written. I can write fairy tales, too. Everyone was practically falling on the coalition. They weren't accepted. That is why I want these decisions to be taken first within the framework of the agreement and the Ministry of Finance and Justice, and then you too will be given regular consideration. I can just tell you my opinion, which is probably not enough right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u187	Thank you very much for your answer. Mrs Iva Dimic will raise the question to the Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u188	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Secretary! As is known, private schools in Slovenia are the country's most financially advantageous solution to the implementation of the school programme. In Slovenia we currently have three primary schools and six secondary schools, which are private schools. They shall implement the public programme co-financed by the State, the remaining funds for the implementation of the programme, and the funds for the construction and maintenance of buildings and equipment shall be fully provided by the State and shall not entail any costs or burden. It is also well known that in the majority it is a quality educational institution, which very well prepares schoolchildren and students for the professional challenges they face and offers them extra-standard services. According to our information, private high schools face some problems. I would point out only one thing: private secondary schools do not have the opportunity to apply for a number of co-financing calls, such as teaching, teaching aids that students need and actually spend when learning or practical learning. It is understandable to limit the possibility of applying for calls for co-financing of equipment, but I do not understand why private schools should not apply for co-financing of teaching aids or teaching aids. In this regard, I ask you, Mr. Minister: What will you do to ensure that private schools are able to apply equally to the requests of the Ministry of Co-financing for teaching or teaching aids for students? Thank you for your answer and I wish you a successful job.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Dr. Giga Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u190	Thank you for asking. Therefore, in accordance with Article 11 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, so-called ZOFVI, a public network shall be organised for the provision of public service in the field of education and education. So we have a public network made up of public schools and individuals with concessions. We do, many times, when we have these political debates on education, as if we have some public schools and some private schools. In both cases, it is part of a public network. Once an operator is a public institution, the second is a private institution, both operating under the same or similar conditions. Private schools shall, in accordance with Article 78 of the ZOFVI, be financed from public funds and partly from schooling. Why the tuition? Since the private schools referred to in Article 86 of the ZOFVI, which have a concession for the implementation of a public programme, are provided with 85% of the funds provided by the State or the local community for the implementation of the public school programme. And that 15% of the school can get, if it wants, out of tuition. In addition to salaries and other personal employee benefits, the material costs for the implementation of the programme shall also be financed in a certain proportion. They shall be calculated on the basis of the same standards and standards as those applicable to public schools. Private schools shall be financed for the implementation of the education programme and shall be earmarked for programmes in the same way as public schools under the contract. The private school shall be entered into the register and shall then be provided with the same staffing and material conditions for the implementation of the public education programme. Funds for the acquisition of teaching aids, teaching aids and so on, which have the character of current expenditure, shall be provided in the context of material costs and not on the basis of public tenders, and shall be the same for public or private. You ask for information and communication technology, i.e. for computers, projectors, interactive boards and so on. The Ministry, according to my information, has been providing private institutions for many years under the same conditions as the public service. This means that private institutions, in accordance with legislation, can run for the Ministry of Finance for this information and communication equipment. This equality should remain, if it is not guaranteed, to look at specific cases or specific calls for proposals as to whether there have been any errors or any favouritism or public versus private or private against public. We don't want any of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonk Černač, Minister for Infrastructure and Space, will be asked a question by Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u192	Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! My question will be about practical cases when we find ourselves in a number of unloving traffic situations. Mr Minister, knowing road traffic regulations is not very useful when on the road, but especially on fast roads and highways we find ourselves in a situation where many trucks on a slow lane cover a traffic signal that is only on the right side of the vehicle. This is why, as Minister, I ask you with the aim of preventing traffic accidents and deaths on our roads: How and by what measures do you intend to increase or improve traffic safety on our fast roads and highways? At the same time, it would be my suggestion, in addition to the question of whether it would not be more reasonable to put ourselves at the same time where we have a traffic signal on the right and when we are in situations where a column of trucks closes our eyes on a very important traffic signal, we will also put it on the left side of the lane; it is said, a speeding lane. Many times, we find ourselves in a situation where we drive through a normal lane or when we are overtaken to miss a traffic sign because of trucks. At the end of the slow lane, we often cannot see a traffic sign indicating that the slow lane is ending, and we happen to have the truck moved right in front of us just before the currents, just before the slow lane ends. It is therefore reasonable to consider either setting up a traffic sign on the left-hand side to double, or a bridge position where we will actually see traffic signals better than now on our roads. We have a tourist season ahead of us, we have an increase in traffic, especially during the summer months, but it is a simple measure that could be implemented as a minister before the main tourist season, when transport will be significantly more. Secondly, I would also like to point out that we might consider as Minister: Could we, too, take a measure to prevent, somehow prohibit speeding for trucks when those with a limit of 80 or 100 kilometers are overtaken and a column is created needlessly? Therefore, it would be good to consider banning the overtaking of trucks on highways in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Minister, Mr. Zvonko Blackach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u194	Thank you very much for that question. I think that as far as traffic safety is concerned, there is an important issue. In view of the transitability and the smallness of our country, it is certainly a long-term vision to get as many heavy goods vehicles as possible on the railway in one way or another. However, we all know the state of our railway infrastructure, and we are talking about the period 2020-2022, because it is a major infrastructure operation, so it will not be possible to modernise this railway infrastructure to the extent that it will be able to absorb most of this load sooner. However, this is certainly a vision for the future and much of this transit traffic needs to be put on track. In Slovenia this year we record, as far as traffic safety is concerned and as far as the victims are concerned, rather favourable statistics. This year's situation is due to various factors, one of which is certainly the weather situation this year, which has been worse because of the winter and has also caused greater traffic attention, this situation, as far as the victim is concerned, is quite favourable. However, this situation must not put us to sleep, and any proposal to increase security is welcome. The Roads Act provides that traffic signals on public roads must be placed and labelled in accordance with the rules governing roads and so that they are clearly visible. More detailed rules for setting up traffic signalling are laid down in the Regulation on Road Traffic Signalling and Transport Equipment. It also provides that this signal should be designed and set up so that road users can be expected to easily and timelyly observe and understand the meaning of the signal and to be able to comply with the meaning or requirements set out or expressed by the road signalling provided. This provision somehow attaches to what you say and propose in relation to the exposed case of an unbroken column of cargo vehicles on a slow lane. This situation can indeed pose a serious obstacle to the visibility of this signalling. The existing regulation also states that if there is a danger that traffic signs are placed at the place where they are placed, for reasons of traffic density or for other reasons, road traffic operators would not notice in a timely manner, they should be placed on the opposite lane so that those passing through are clearly visible or, in the case of similar or different situations, also above the vehicle. This comment is welcome. Accordingly, we will review all the neural points not only in this particular case, which has been exposed, but also in all other cases, and on this basis require those who are operators or highway network or network of fast roads, but where it is the operators of the state network, to ensure, at these neural points, that appropriate traffic signals are put in place as soon as possible, which will alert participants in such cases to the risks they may face. As regards the prohibition of overtaking of trucks, one part of these provisions has already been implemented. Such signs have already been placed on individual sections in individual time periods. Control will need to be increased because we have observed or coworkers warn me that in many cases there is a violation of these established signs, and in the shortest possible time – the intention was to do so already, and unfortunately because of the circumstances we did not have an impact, we were unable to do so, we could not remove the disturbing obstacles mainly on the highways. As you can see, there was a major accident yesterday because of these obstacles. These islands, these customs at the front toll stations, which I, too, have to say, have for a long time convinced me that they are not disruptive and do not constitute restrictions. They convinced me even in this direction to allow vehicles to stop there and to reduce speed, which of course is not true. These obstacles are precisely the cause of a very serious accident because of the collision of vehicles. I don't want any worse things to happen in the future than they did yesterday. As a result, we will see to it that these disturbing obstacles will be removed this year. The part where we can do most of the work in the coming year is traffic situations where we can remove these narrow throats with a different transport solution — so-called circles or circular circles — where it can be done at a low cost. In this direction, I signed an amendment to the guidelines on how to regulate these situations in such a way that we can also temporarily regulate these arrangements for a longer period of time, not just for half a year.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u195	Thank you very much for your answer. Do you have a proposal to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u196	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. In particular, I would like to thank you for the change in the guidelines that have made it impossible for you to respond to this last question about these circles. So we've already got some sort of arrangement on the coast. I hope that on all regional roads we will also remove all unnecessary traffic lights and set up circulars. However, as far as security is concerned and all that I have said in my question, I have been preparing since I took up the mandate of a Member, I have been on the road daily to Piran and Ljubljana. In recent months, I have also traveled a lot of roads to Prekmurje and back, through Styria, and I find that the same mistakes have been made all over our highways. Where there is an uninterrupted, continuous column of trucks, there is virtually no traffic signalling on the right side of the vehicle. Given that we are just ahead of the tourist season and that the transit of freight traffic will increase, we will soon have groups of tourists coming to us, where urgent action can be taken early – because as a participant in traffic, I am confident that many accidents will occur precisely because of the imprudent traffic signaling and because of the unnecessary and estimated inadmissible overcoming of trucks. The truck beats the truck and beats it and beats it and never beats it. The worst part is when your truck throws itself in front of your vehicle just before the plantation and this problem comes up. Let's stop this before the season, and if you do, you'll get another thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Minister Zvonko Blackach. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u198	Thank you so much for those words. We don't need it. I don't need it. I don't need it. I don't need it. By our best means, we try to do the best in the area we are in charge of. With regard to traffic signalling, it is a relatively small cost that can be settled in a relatively short period of time. As with other proposals and initiatives that have been put forward in the National Assembly and where they have not been large funds and could be implemented, we will also act in this case. I assure you that at all those places and all those neurological points where this problem is most pressing and exposed, this non-transport signal will be provided. We have also done the same in those parts related to different traffic arrangements, where traffic is due to traffic crossings, or because of inadequate traffic arrangements for access from several side streets, where we have reviewed the situation in the whole country, and we are currently finding that by setting up fifty-five temporary circulars we could significantly improve the traffic situation in each area. Unfortunately, despite the fact that smaller funds are needed here than under permanent arrangements, we will not be able to do so this year. The assessment is that we can reach out in five to ten such cases, and in all others we will intervene in the following year, even in such a way that we will be able to redirect a certain part of the resources that are intended for more durable solutions into these temporary solutions, and in this way try to solve more narrow traffic jams with the same amount of funds. Even further, if we are informed and alerted to individual solutions that can be better, we will approach these commitments to the best of our ability.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mrs Alenka Pavlič also has a question for Mr Zvonk Černač as Minister of Infrastructure and Space. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u200	Dear Minister Blackach! How will the country cover debt to Slovenian railways of EUR 134 million? Will this be in any other way in connection with Luca Koper? Do they hold information that foreign investors are interested in the State stake of Luka Koper, and which are these? The Law on the Company of Slovenian Railways, which was adopted last year, ensured the uniform functioning of the system of Slovenian Railways. Information has emerged in the media that a change of law is being prepared within the Ministry of Infrastructure to separate the infrastructure company from the single system of the Slovenian Railways. I'm asking you: Is this still valid, and what are the reasons for this? This would mean understanding the integrated rail system and have negative effects on the functioning of Slovenian railways. If I sum up the German model by which the government is exemplary, they have this organized holding company. In 2010, the former Ministry of Transport concluded an advisory agreement with A. T. Kearney aimed at the rehabilitation and restructuring of the Slovenian Railways. I want to know: Is this contract already concluded, what concrete results are there in achieving the objectives set out in the contract and how much is the payment made so far under this advice?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Minister Zvonko Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u202	Thank you very much for these questions. Regarding Slovenian railways and debt issues, it must be said that this is not a debt, at least formally not. This law on the coverage of past investments in infrastructure, as proposed by the previous Pahor's Government, was also adopted in the National Assembly, provided that the Slovenian railways for past investments in five years, i.e. from 2012 onwards, will be reimbursed for the amount of EUR 134 million 261 000 600. So annually, EUR 26 million 852 thousand. And this year it was the year in which these funds were to be started to Slovenian railways in some way in accordance with the law. As you know, it was one of those financial items that wasn't real. In addition to many others where post- rationalisation was needed, this item was also the one that did not have the real sources of funding provided. A simplified statement of these funds has not been made in the budget, not even in these situations in which we are today. Of course, the country should further increase its debt if it would like to continue to repay these assets from this year. Therefore, this provision in the Public Finance Balance Act has been amended in such a way that it still retains the obligation to reimburse these funds in the amount of EUR 134 million EUR 261 000 600, but in 10 years, between 2014 and 2023; that is, EUR 13 million 426 000 annually, without interest and in the way that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian Railway Company conclude a contract of payment after the adoption of the annual budget of the Republic of Slovenia when these funds are provided in the budget. This contract shall also specify each year both the maturity date and the method of payment of those liabilities. The second question concerns investors in Luka Koper or our port. There's a lot of interest in investment in Luca Koper. Various signals are coming from individual companies from abroad as well as Slovenia. I am sure that, on the one hand, the Supervisory Board and the Management Board of the Port of Koper will ensure that once the conditions for this are in place, Luka Koper will receive a strategic partner who will make it possible to further develop it to the greatest extent possible. The port of Koper is one of the important North Adriatic ports placed in important strategic networks in Europe, and its development and further growth are, of course, dependent on the further development of the other, especially railway infrastructure in our country. With regard to Infrastructure and Slovenian Railways, it is a matter of compliance with European directives or with European regulation. The case mentioned in the case of German railways may not be the best case, since there are likely to be some status, such or other changes in this case. Here we go, simply put, for European regulation to stipulate that wheel tracks should be separated. This can be done in different ways. We also had a similar example in the energy field, where it was necessary to separate the wires from the electricity flowing through them, so that one of the options is also within such or other holding company. It is possible to agree with you that this is a society that has a specific position and that any change should be carefully considered and should be given priority to its further long-term development, its recovery and its potential for further growth. The last question was about A.T. Kearney. The contract, which was signed, was a heavy million 500 000 euros. The custodian, the sole guardian of this contract, was the former Secretary of State at the former Ministry of Transport, even after he had been physically gone for several months. It was paid before my arrival, I think, about 830,000 euros out of a million and 500 thousand euros. As soon as the situation and all contracts on which there was no longer any interest to continue in view of their impact were reviewed, I terminated this contract in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u203	Thank you very much. You will now have the opportunity to move forward because Mrs Alenka Pavlič has asked for an additional reply. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u204	Yes, I'd like to ask you if you can continue with your answer. In addition, I would like to ask: given the fact that the Prime Minister was in Germany on his last visit, he also met with the German railway leadership. After that, we also visited the National Assembly, namely the representatives of the German Parliament, and a few days later we were visited by members of the Infrastructure Committee. I want to know: What was agreed at the meeting and what future transport activities are envisaged for the future? And my question: Are you involved in this, and what are your responsibilities, or is it solely under the authority of the Prime Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u205	Thank you very much. I ask for the answer of Minister Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u206	Thank you very much for this opportunity, in some way, so that I can answer the whole question. First of all, with regard to this advisory agreement for a million 500 000 euros. So, lazily put: after what I've seen, in these advisory contracts, there's something similar to the one we read about in the media a long time ago in Dars, which was difficult, I think a million euros. Once a person sees the product and the summary, in view of the experience that we all have in this area, we can create our own opinion on this and on the value scale. I do not wish to hurt anyone, but I believe that in the past, not only in this area, but also in many other areas, there has been a great deal of emphasis on such and different advice, studies and the search for opportunities for a student approach in various matters, including infrastructure, regrettably, a great deal of emphasis and unfortunately also a great deal of financial resources. This is why we are where we are today, where we are in real danger by transport corridors, especially on the rail network, which are rapidly running or being produced and will obviously go around us. If such an emphasis should have been placed on the construction of the network over the past years, as has been given to various studies for these purposes, then, in my view, the corridor should have been fully updated in this period and in accordance with European regulation. Nevertheless, this contract did not have any added value and, in my opinion, this EUR 670,000 has been saved for the budget, but it is not the only contract. I have cancelled a number of similar contracts with an unrealised total of more than a few million euros. That's why I get so many on one side or the other. About the meeting or the German railways and this project. There is no secret that the discussions on this link took place during the period of the former Janša government, in the period 2005-2008, which in some way ceased in 2008, I will not say closed, and then continued under the Pahora government, but did not receive any appropriate conclusion or any appropriate decision. It is somehow estimated that the discussions held in the past regarding strategic integration were not bad. It may also be a major damage to the further development of the rail system in Slovenia, that the past government has not continued. I wasn't in those conversations that took place in Germany. But I believe, and I am also firmly convinced, that the word was also about whether it was possible to revive the conversations that are in the past. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The question to the Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku, will be asked by Mr Samo Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u208	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, Dr. Giga Turk! On 24 May 2012, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia provisionally suspended the implementation of Article 40, paragraph 1, of the Act on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material in the Constitutional Procedure. In particular, I should like to point out that the Ombudsman has made a request for an assessment. The first paragraph of Article 40 imposes on public law persons that, at the latest 30 years after the date of creation, the Archives must also deliver those materials containing personal sensitive data. For example, data from psychiatric institutions on the psychiatric treatment of individuals must be transmitted to the archive. According to the Ombudsman, this is inconsistent with the Constitution, namely the legal and social state, equality from law, the right to personal dignity and security, the protection of privacy and personal rights and the protection of personal data. The data of psychiatric institutions by transferring to the Archives are made publicly available under certain conditions and, as such, can cause irreparable harm to the personal dignity and personality rights of individuals and their families. In this respect, Mr. Minister, I ask you: How does the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport ensure respect for the protection of sensitive personal data when providing information obtained by users of archive material? Mr. Minister, thank you very much for your answer in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Dr. Mark Turk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u210	Thank you so much for asking. The availability of archiving materials, the protection of personal data and similar really sensitive and important issues shall not be decided by the Minister, not by the Ministry, but by the relevant legislation or by the competent authorities. The archive of the Republic of Slovenia introduced the so-called anonymisation of archival material in autumn 2011, without legal basis, even without clear criteria. Since there are not enough archivists in the archive to carry out this work, this anonymisation, long waiting periods have arisen for access to the historically important archives investigated by some researchers. I seriously doubt that this is about the content that you referred to, i.e. health records, medical data and so on, but of course the problem is general. On 16 April 2012, the leaders, archivists and users unanimously adopted a position that such unspecified anonymisation could not be continued. What they have proposed is that the users of the archive are particularly familiar with their obligations in the protection of personal data. What you are asking is probably the most reasonable, the best in his public letter to me to point out this to Dr. Dragan Matič, he expresses doubts about such a decision. Given that the rules on access to archive material are the responsibility of the archival commission, I will ask it or have already asked it to draw up an appropriate reply. Of course, he takes these warnings seriously.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. You've answered this second question in part. In fact, I wanted to ask you myself about your comment on the open letter addressed to you by the former director of the Archives, Dr. Dragan Matič. It draws attention to these problems, draws attention to the rights and interests of people who have been violated in the past. As Dr. Matič argues, the lack of respect for legislation at the disposal of archival material opens the way for these people to be harmed and human rights violated today. The sensitive personal data of individuals who have been acquired in the past by the former SDV should be protected from any act of scrutiny by the interested user. You yourself mentioned the word anonymization and then this meeting of archivists who objected. However, this is no longer the case today, since this material is intended to be sensitive to the personal data of the victims. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] SDV given for use without prior review of the archives and without adequate cover. In these documents, just as sensitive data as before, when I said they were treated in psychiatric institutions. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: What will you do to ensure that sensitive personal data is anonymized, or are you planning any other legal change in this discussion that is now in the profession? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u213	Thank you very much. I'm asking for a supplement. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u214	Thank you very much. I told you that I take such warnings seriously. To begin with, I would like to ask the archiving commission to determine that we are still hearing their professional arguments for this. But there's something else I'd like to say. You correctly point out that this is the victim's personal data. These are people who have been victims of some regime, some system, some methods of controlling the population by, say, secret police, political police, etc. Here we place two things on the scale; on the one hand, access to these personal data of these people, on the other hand, an excuse that researchers cannot learn about the operation of secret police because this anonymisation takes so long. If this is just an excuse, I do not claim to be, but if this is just an excuse to significantly slow down access to this archival material that talks about the work of the secret police, the political police and other authorities of the totalitarian state, are not these victims, which of course should be properly anonymized – are they not twice the victims? First, because they have been investigated, and secondly, because behind their names there is a tendency not to come to a clear explanation of what was happening in those days. As I say, the dilemmas are difficult and let us give experts some time to show us both wages on these things.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Dr. Mark Turk, you'll have another chance to answer. The question will be asked by a magician. Borut Ambrožich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u216	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Hello, Mr. Secretary! Allow me to ask a question in the beginning, and I will explain later in a given time. What are the options for planning the financing of the investment projects of the European Capital of Culture? As you know, it only connects part of 210 municipalities in Slovenia, for an all-Slovenian project that attracts many tourists to our small country. Nevertheless, in particular in the city where I come from, the relevant institutions involved in these investment cycles are still asking how to proceed with past objectives and strategies. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall be 20. 1. In 2011 it adopted a decision to provide €10 million in two years to co-finance the construction of the Maribor Library and, consequently, to regulate the Rotov market. The implementation of this Decision was conditional on the acquisition of construction documentation and the relevant participation of the Municipality of Maribor. Currently, investment planning activities have stopped, and because of the critical spatial situation of the Maribor Library, which is being stepped up from day to day, implementation would be urgently needed. The lack of space to carry out the regular activities of the library is accompanied by the duration of the existing building, especially electrical installations, outflows and could also be listed. It is not negligible that the library visits thousands and more users daily and is more visited than all other cultural institutions together. The total investment is worth €21.8 million, i.e. this project. For 2012, the budget of the Municipality of Maribor provides for the amount of EUR 475 000 and the expected transfer from the country of EUR 4 million. The library is no longer able to carry out its regular activities normally under current spatial conditions, so we are interested or interested in: How will the state help to realise the investment, or in what way will it return the item to the budget? A similar story is actually happening at the equally important cultural institution of Maribor, Maribor Art Gallery, which also eagerly expects to move to new premises. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u218	Thank you so much for asking. In fact, allow me first to commend all the activities that have taken place in Maribor concerning the European Capital of Culture. This is a very good project, which is not designed to be a mega event, but actually introduces a whole bunch of small cultural elements into the city, creating some networks that hopefully will work later. As part of the EPK, or because Maribor became the European capital of culture, certain investments were also planned in the cultural infrastructure of the city, which Maribor urgently needs and which were accelerated because it became the European capital of culture. When I took over the Ministry, I heard different stories, different testimony about why these investments are mainly about art gallery, library and Maribor Castle, why they are not making progress. On the one hand, you will guess who claimed that the projects were not ready, lack of permits, no co-financing and so on. On the other hand, there were discussions in the direction that Ljubljana was setting us up, not wanting us, always asking for something new and so on. With what was back, I cannot deal with it; but at the Ministry we are very well aware of the importance that infrastructure has for the cultural image of a city, and we are very well aware of the importance of investment, so that we now start economic development. In short, something is happening that the euro we still have from European funds is turning. Of course, we cannot go beyond the rules imposed on us by the European Union or the rules for drawing on European funds. We're doing the best we can. When I heard some remarks last week that something about UGM was getting complicated again, this was Friday afternoon, I called the director of mag. I'm the investment director with me. What's going on? He took the same afternoon, Friday afternoon, at four o'clock in the car, through a long column arrived at seven o'clock in Maribor and sat and did what and how things could be moved. The formal things he wrote me and where things are, where they're running, if I have any more time, I can tell you the information. On the Ministry's side, there is a great willingness to move things forward, but some of these projects are actually in such a long delay that the time limits that are the contractual obligation will be relatively difficult to catch. Like, for an UGM. In this contract that you quoted, 20. 1. 2011 Ministry of Culture – yes, EUR 10 million for co-financing the construction of UGM, and we have these funds, but with comparable financial participation of the Municipality of Maribor, provided that by the end of May 2011 UGM will be declared public cultural infrastructure and all project documentation will be provided. According to the information I have, the Municipality of Maribor has submitted an application for approval of co-financing funds, but this role is not yet complete. There are major issues regarding ownership, public-private partnership, public procurement. The financial structure of the whole of Max, in which the UGM is included, is not actually closed. It is similar in relation to the Maribor Library, where the construction permit for the first phase exists, but this first phase is only for the transfer and protection of water-communal infrastructure and for the execution of the construction substructure, we have not received projects for the second phase, nor have we received a building permit. The decision of the Government requires an appropriate financial participation of the Municipality of Maribor, we do not have a final deadline. With regard to the Maribor Castle, all activities, operations, the actual production of documentation, construction works, installations, purchase of equipment and so on should be completed 30. 6. 2012 and until 31. 12. 2012 is only the time to obtain a usable permit and all other activities until the end of this month. The city congregation has not even begun its work, and it is unrealistic to expect to be completed by 30. 6. As a result of this, the contract is breached by the municipality and the derogation from the co-financing agreement by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u220	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. I am pleased to see in principle that Maribor, as the current European capital of culture, deserves new infrastructure facilities, which could also be listed long and wide in past cultural capitals, which are not really comparable to Maribor – Linz could mention, and some – where financial relations are completely different. However, allow me to wish, as you yourself have described the event on Friday, when the competent director of the Directorate personally tried and got into the car and drove to Maribor – a similar drive and eagerness would also be expected from the other side; it is said from the legal representatives of the relevant cultural institutions and also the Municipality of Maribor that matters only move forward with common strength. As far as I understand you, it is, in particular, a project of the Maribor Castle of Passe, but there is still some silent hope for the Maribor Library and the Maribor Art Gallery, which really deserve a final placement in a new space or in a new dress if you want, because in particular the Maribor Art Gallery has been talking about changing the location since 1950. I will continue to appreciate, of course, the complementary agreement and the efforts on both sides to bring the projects to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u221	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an additional answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u222	Dear Member, the wish is mutual. The partners on the Maribor side also acknowledge that we have finally done things in the right way, that we are moving one step at a time, and that we are removing the obstacles that are standing here. In some cases, colleagues find that the expectations of how European funds can be used are different, sometimes unrealistic, but I really hope that these two projects will be solved in one way or another. We are not just doing them because Maribor is the European capital of culture, it will only be until December 31st, both infrastructure cultural facilities need mainly for the whole time that there will be no European capital of culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u223	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Patricia Šulin, Minister of Finance Dr. Janez Šuštaršič, who is not with us. I must inform you that he has excused his absence, from 6.30 p.m. on.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u224	Madam President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present. I ask the Minister of Finance: When will the merger of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia take place? How will the services within the new administration be organised in the event of a merger? Will these services be given new powers, and which ones? I am particularly interested in the procedures for the control of the grey economy and in the special specialised group on tax control with the possibility of seizure of property. And: Will there be a transfer of workers from the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia to the inspection services of Durs so far and how much? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u225	Thank you so much for asking. Since the Minister is not with us, I ask you, do you want a written answer or will you request an oral response at the next meeting?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u226	I'd like an oral response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u227	Okay, thank you very much. The next question is for the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr. Žigu Turku, at the turn of Tina Komel.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u228	The Honourable Minister of Giga Turk! In recent days, we have been able to read that the private Faculty of Applied Social Studies, FUDŠ, has received a third of all funds at your Ministry's invitation to tender. The Head of the Directorate for Higher Education at your Ministry, Mr Borut Rončević, is also, look at it, a co-founder of this university. By claiming that he has been removed from the decision-making process as head of the Directorate, you will not convince us that he has not affected the fact that he has provided a third of the funds for his private college. We have learned too well about the functioning of the SDS in the mandate 2004 to 2008, where you had exactly such patterns of action. I believe you'll tell me how many projects have been reported and what this private college is doing. Just, please! If everyone with FUDŠ, including all students, had participated in all the projects, they would not have filled one class in the great lecture room of the Faculty of Economics in Ljubljana. Therefore, there are no minimum conditions for such amounts of funds received by your Ministry. This same gentleman is a fifth-time employee and receives funds from this invitation to tender. Can you confirm that this gentleman in college actually works and does his job, or does he not just get paid because he himself has granted his college a huge amount of money? To keep everyone calm, I propose that this case be reviewed by the Court of Auditors, the Anti-Corruption Commission and the police, as it is a typical sign of corruption and clientism. My question is: How will you act to ensure that the funds are distributed equally between public universities and other private ones that have not received such funds? Do you intend to respond and withdraw in the event of proven suspicions of corruption and clientism in your ministry?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u229	Thank you very much. A lot of questions. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u230	I don't know, honourable Member Comel, whether you have yourself come up with this question or set it up for you because there is no story here. There's no story in this case. The terms of this invitation were written by the previous government [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u231	Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry. They're warning me if you ever hook up again because time is running out.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u232	So, the invitation was written by the previous government under the leadership of Minister Gregor Golobic. The Commission, which assesses the call, was appointed by the previous government when Mr Golobic, Minister of State, was Minister of State. The criteria for assessing the proposals received were laid down by the previous government at the time of Mr Gregor Golobič, Minister of Staff. The conditions or evaluation criteria for these projects were such that the Commission did not have any arbitral possibilities to assess what they preferred, what they liked less. All the conditions were what, say, you want for, say, the distribution of funds in sports, which we're talking about here today. This Commission for the same call has already worked and distributed projects in 2011, and now it was just another call for the same call. The Commission concluded its work on 1 April 2012 and Mr Rončević came to work with the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Director of the Directorate for Science and Higher Education on 2 April, a day later. You are very concerned about why public universities, public colleges have not been more successful in this invitation to tender. Even if private institutions had not applied at all, the public colleges would not have been able to draw up all the funds that had been tendered because they had not submitted too few projects because they did not feel it necessary to write, to respond to this call. So all the fears about this are completely exaggerated, Madam Member, send the anti-corruption commission, the Court of Auditors, the police, as you said, the military, if you think – good luck! We are available to you with all the information. Because I expected that if it happened by chance that someone who didn't come from the biggest university would get any funds from the Ministry and that it would be a whole hall; when I got the results of this invitation to tender, I said let's see that there was nothing wrong, and I gave things to look at the internal audit commission. Of course, she did not find any irregularities associated with favouring public or private, or one or the other. So, please, it would be my great pleasure to have some things cleared up in this case. The calls are huge. At many of the invitations, the University of Ljubljana won at the time that I was Minister, and no one is concerned that Turk is also a professor at the University of Ljubljana. She won huge invitations, I don't know, during Minister Golobic's time, including the University of Ljubljana, and no one bothered to study there. She won some college where the secretary of state worked, and no one bothered. If someone has been better, if he has written better proposals for an invitation to tender, then it is proper to congratulate him and to be glad that private institutions are making an effort to do so. They have worked hard for these funds because they are not as softly laid down as public institutions, which receive a variety of funds a month and a variety of things even without invitations.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u233	Thank you very much. I see you want a supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u234	Dear Minister! I'm not happy with your answer and not just because you doubt my and our abilities so that you can write it for me and build it for yourself. But also because – I will explain. About 51,000 students attend the University of Ljubljana. At the invitation, your ministry approved four projects and received 90,000 euros for them. This means they received two euros from the student. Faculty FUDŠ attends 369 students at all stages. At the invitation, your ministry approved 8 projects and received EUR 400,000 of state funds. This means that FUDŠ has received slightly less than a thousand 100 euros per student. Do you normally think that a student at the University of Ljubljana is worth as much as one burek and at the private college FUDŠ as the latest Apple computer? I really don't understand this fair logic about the distribution of funds. As I gather, I see you don't like public education. You wanted to take away 30 million Euros a month ago, and now at the invitation the private college of FUDŠ has acquired more than a third of the funds. As I read on the RTV website today, this same private college published a survey in which your SDS client is running smoothly in front of everyone else. It is likely that the tender funds were intended for the good results of SDS in public research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u235	Thank you very much. I have no doubt that you have further explanations.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u236	I imagine you could find someone who would say, "Look, these Slovenians, there's two million of them, and they have a world champion in ski flights. We Chinese, but it's a billion and a half, and we didn't get any medals." The basic reason or basic rule is that things need to be reported. I don't know, I think it's obvious that Mr Golobič, when writing the terms of this invitation, did not put in tender conditions that the largest university must receive so many projects and that the number of students of a university is a criterion of choice. The Commission has scored and scored on such and such criteria. The public institutions proposed 20 projects and 13 were selected, i.e. about two thirds. Private institutions, private higher education institutions have proposed 34 projects and have won or received 21 projects, i.e. about two thirds. Your argument reminds me of that gentleman who's been complaining all along that he didn't win the lottery. Then one explained to him, "Come on, you know you have to buy a ticket!" If you want to get the projects on the call, then it's good to start by proposing them.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Do you want to make another suggestion?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u238	In the second paragraph of Article 246, I propose a public debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u239	Thank you very much for the suggestion. We will vote on this proposal in the context of the votes. The next is Mrs Renata Brunskole, who will also ask the question to Minister Žigi – and not to Žig, as misspelled here [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you very much. Now we know more. Thank you very much. In short, Minister Giga Turk will answer Mrs Renata Brunskole's question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u240	Dear President, Minister, all present! Mr Minister, I am asking you a question about an equally extremely interesting topic, and I think it is very recent, but I would really like to ask that this dialogue of ours be as constructive and not as cynical as possible. Actually, the last question was, unfortunately, that's the way it was. So, respectable Dr. Žiga Turk, Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, I ask you about plans to increase standards in primary schools and any changes in school environments in the next school year. It is interesting that, for so large, I do not say, education should take more time and allow for public debate and exchange of views, which should involve current professionals in the field of education and education, including from other fields of expertise, directors and the general public. Until then, we have a valid system, the applicable standards of the school network. That would be the right thing to do. However, we have recently read: "As a result of austerity measures there are resources for the implementation of the programme" – this and any ministry – "decreased" and so on. Then we read that we would need more psychologists, that people are in trouble, but unfortunately, there is no funding for this area either. Proposals should come out to the public precisely and comprehensively defined and such measures would mean what you now anticipate for the new school year in order to shift the burden of the country from the state budget to the local community. I am also asking this question because it seems that this truly large ministry you are running is thinking in a very different direction, such as the expectations of citizens and citizens. Let me tell you on a specific case. Intervention measures in primary education, such as those in the White landscape, which is a demographicly threatened area following a government decision, would further increase unemployment, affect young families and practically relocate young people from rural areas to larger cities. Please respond to any changes in the school environment and the anticipated increase in standards in schools in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u241	Thank you for asking. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u242	Thank you for the question. It's completely in place. We've talked a lot about these things in the past few months. Most of all, it was heard that we were talking to trade unions, which, because of jobs and burdens, were rightly interested and very concerned. We also talked to mayors or representatives of municipalities who are equally interested, sometimes from a slightly different point of view, because for a better organisation of education and education, especially preschool, some municipal budget could make less. In this regard, I should like to clarify that, with the coordination of the strike committees of the public sector unions, the Government has agreed, through the coordination of the strike committees of the public sector unions on 10 May 2012, to agree on an agreement on the resolution of strike requirements. You know that there were one central theme, one of the central issues at the time we talked to the unions, exactly standards, norms, school environment and so on. In short, we agreed, and I quote: "Firstly, that changes in standards and standards in education and education should be aligned with the social partners in the framework of the social agreement. Secondly," I quote, "that standards and standards for education, education, health, research and public administrations which will not be harmonised under the Social Agreement are subject to further coordination with the social partners with a view to reaching an agreement." The dialogue in the context of the social partnership is taking place these days, and with this debate I would not want to improve or weaken our negotiating points in this regard. Those who have followed the discussions, in terms of both standards and standards as well as school environments, know that it is towards a slight approximation of the standards that Slovenian educators have on average in the European Union, and that it is about school environments in a direction that would make it possible in larger urban centres to improve the excellence of classes. We're not talking about putting 28, 29, 30 students in classes, but we're trying to make those smallest classes better perfect and reach the standards of about 24 children in the class than the lower limit. This is also the number of children recognised by the teaching profession as a healthy number, within which certain groups of children, friendships can be formed; in short, that the class functions as a class. Not by chance throughout history classes were about that big, of course they were even bigger in the past, but we also kind of studied, but let me be very clear: we don't want to go back to the size of classes that would go in 30. School environment. As I say, in the function of being able at the level of an urban centre where people move, we can optimize or raise those minimum classes, that we don't have one class at each school, but there are ten classes or there are two classes per, say, 15 children, but there will be 24 in another school 24 and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Complementary question, Mrs Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u244	Complementary question. Thank you for your answer so far, but I'm sorry I'm not very pleased. Mostly why. Not because I am an opposition Member, but because we find in the territory of Slovenia, especially in more remote areas than I mentioned earlier about the White landscape. I will tell you in concrete terms: we have forgotten about children with special needs, not only in the White landscape, but elsewhere; we have forgotten about 20% of the Roma population in the Belarusian schools, which is specific in the implementation of the educational work. On May 4th, the Belarusian congregations and the assets of the directors of the Belarusian schools also wrote a letter to you. They received your reply to try to include these specifics in the amendment of the law, but, overall, the apparently competent Ministry and Government do not take into account the Government's past conclusions that the White Landscape belongs to the demographically endangered areas. What worries me about the "Baby Boom" generation of 2009, which will come to school, is that there will be problems again. I fear that what has already been asked today is that we will somehow reduce public schools. In particular, in the White landscape we will put the school Stari trg, the school Dragatuš, the school of Underground in branch school, 35 professors – without work, children to drive, etc. There will be no need to discuss this issue at all, but we are likely to prefer some private schools. I am afraid we are moving away from the legal, democratic and social state of the Republic of Slovenia. And that's what I'm worried about, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond further.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u246	I must very strongly reject these indications, which are welcome to appear on this side in relation to the preference of private schools. In the previous question, we have actually heard a lot of talk about how it would be only right to prefer public universities or prefer public institutions. Our ministry takes the view that we must be honest and that we must treat everything equally; if someone has reported a better project, they have reported a better project — whether public or private, if red or black. I share your concern about the branch schools regarding the school network in the proposal, which we did not then include in the ZUJF. There was no idea that any school sites would be shut down. It was the only idea that any school would be turned into a branch school, which would make children very little, a little bit more prepared for the principal, even a little cheap for the congregation, but we actually quickly deleted that proposal. And it was eight schools, if these three are from the white landscape between these eight, then don't worry. You say we've forgotten special schools, we've forgotten about the Roma and so on. I don't think we've forgotten anything since this government. Nothing has gotten any worse in this area. We have not taken any systemic measures in this area and we have not taken any systemic measures in this area that would affect these standards.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Do you have a suggestion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u248	Given the exceptional importance of this issue in relation to the network of primary schools, school environments, standards and standards, and not to forget children with special needs in classical primary schools, special assistance is needed, I propose that, on the basis of Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure, we hold a public debate. I hope that there will also be a public presentation of opinions before anything is adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u249	Thank you very much for the suggestion. This will be decided in the context of the votes. Now it's mag. Ivan Vogrin, who was supposed to ask the Minister of Finance, Dr. Janez Šušteršič, who I already apologized for his absence. Master Vogrin, would you like to ask a question? Can you wait for the next meeting and then ask the same question?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u250	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Thank you very much, everyone. I will ask the question today, given that it is true and that I have already discussed this with the Minister; and also with another minister. This is the Public Finance Balance Act, with which we have reduced wages more or less linearly, remuneration for all employees in the public sector. However, the fact is that the net salary below 800 euros only makes it possible to live. I think that people with such low incomes should not be allowed to lower their income, for this also takes their dignity away from them. But this, I don't think we got the right to vote or to be appointed. While the Prime Minister of the Government spoke today about the strong para-state sector, which is a country where employees in this para-state sector – Slovenian Railways, Mutual Railways and so on – are higher wages than the Prime Minister, than ministers and so on. And, of course, he believes that there is enough reserve to find a balance between public finances where people have large benefits. In fact, it is grotesque that a director of an institution or some other parastatal body receives a higher salary than the Prime Minister himself or the Minister of Finance, who is formally in charge. I therefore ask the Minister of Finance and any other minister or government: When will you propose a law or such a solution to the sustainability of public finances to make the maximum difference between the highest and minimum wage in the public sector 1 : 5? Of course, this would also be ethical in these crisis situations. And the second question: When will you, with the aim of balancing public finances, request the Government to amend legislation for public undertakings and public companies, or a society owned mainly by the State, so that they will also be subject to the Public Sector Wages Act? We've also talked about this with Dr. Plitschnik's minister, who is also present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u251	Thank you very much. I still have to ask you. Would it be okay if the minister asked you a written question, if you'd excuse me, of course?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u252	It's all right. There are four ministers here, I think the question is in place. I have already really talked about this and, in principle, ministers agree or believe that it would also suggest that this area should be regulated, in particular that the government will have an impact on state, para-national or state-owned enterprises, so that wage policy can also be regulated.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Then we'll ask the Minister for a written answer. The same question for Dr Janez Šuštersič, Minister of Finance, is raised by Mr Mirko Brulc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u254	Good evening. I am convinced that the Minister is aware that there are too many fishermen of all technologies in our national sea. Last but not least because of the wrong fisheries policy. From the available measures of the European Union, from the European Fisheries Fund 2007-2013, a cut-off or permanent cessation of fishing activities is hereby financed by 75 % of the European Union's resources and 25 % of the national funds for the implementation of the operational programme. The government's new proposal to tax all benefits above €63 000 amounts to 50% of the tax on all those who would receive the money for cutting the fishing vessel. It is absurd that the State will allocate up to 25 % of the funds for the measure and take 40 or 50 % of the appropriations for the cessation of activities. In Italy, the same funds are not taxed, which is logical because they are not income from activities. Non-taxation was also agreed by the current Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, as this topic was dealt with by the Committee on Agriculture at the end of April 2012 and a common conclusion was adopted that the income is not from fishing activities but from the income that fishermen would receive in order to cease this activity and thus contribute to the sustainable exploitation of fishing resources. At the same time, overfishers can be afforded a decent withdrawal from this activity and the remaining long-term management of fisheries without the assistance of the State, and it is probably going, that is clear to us all, for some kind of derogation. I'm asking the minister: Why a decision in the relevant sector has not been taken unanimously in order to adopt a decision to fully comply with Council Regulation No. 1198/2006? I also propose to the Government that before the publication of the invitation to tender, if this is of course necessary, an appropriate amendment to the Income Act should be made so that the premiums for cutting the vessel would not be regarded as taxable income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u255	Thank you so much for asking. I also ask you, Mr. Brulc, would you have sufficient written or would you like an oral answer? Okay. Thank you for your proposal. We'll get him to the minister. The next is Mrs Maša Kociper, which will raise the question with the Minister of Justice and Public Administration, Dr Senko Plicaniu.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u256	Mr. Secretary, finally one question for you. As you know, the citizens of our country as one of the biggest problems expose the inefficient and slow functioning of justice, particularly in the judiciary. Therefore, it should be one of the biggest challenges of each government, including yours, how to best act in justice and how to improve the work of the entire judiciary, and in particular the work of the courts. In Positive Slovenia, we have repeatedly pointed out that the policy of linear budget cuts also works in the judiciary and in the judiciary, as the costs of both the prosecution, the police and the courts have been reduced. The leaders of the Court of Justice then pointed out that such a reduction would certainly have a negative impact on the functioning of the courts, as it is virtually impossible to achieve savings in the courts other than by reducing the number of cases resolved, thereby reducing the legal security of the natural and legal persons. The Court's budgets are characterised by the fact that the bulk, more than 70 %, covers salaries, followed by costs of judicial proceedings, material costs and costs for free legal aid. If we do not take into account the remuneration, the bulk of the funds are therefore intended to cover judicial and material costs, and in such a cut, the costs of free legal aid cover as much as 15 %. In particular, it is of concern that these costs in recent years from month to month are greatly increased, which means that in fact the available funds of the courts for judicial proceedings are being reduced to this account. The Supreme Court points out, however, that a large part of the funding for BPP is intended to cover the initial costs of bankruptcy proceedings, which was introduced by the amendment of the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. In addition to the problem of increasing funds from this title, the procedure for granting free legal aid also creates actual insolvency proceedings, since the bankruptcy debtors who apply for this assistance already meet all the conditions for initiating bankruptcy proceedings and should be given a decision within three days, which is not the case, of course. In addition to financial problems and insolvency proceedings, such regulation in insolvency law is also contrary to the purpose of the Free Legal Procedure Act, which provides that its purpose is to exercise the right to judicial protection in accordance with the principle of equality, taking into account the social situation of persons who, without prejudice to their survival, cannot exercise that right. It is therefore a matter of assistance to natural and not legal persons. So I ask, Mr. Secretary-General: In view of the foregoing, are you thinking about optimizing the functioning of the judiciary? Do you already have specific solutions to curb the increasing costs of free legal aid? Are you planning any changes to the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination in this regard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Please respond, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u258	Dear Vice President. Dear Mrs Kociper, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I understand this question of yours in two parts. First, when we consider rationalising the costs incurred by the courts for free legal aid in general and then in the second part, when these funds are intended to exempt the advance which is a condition for the initiation of bankruptcy proceedings when proposed by the debtor, a natural or legal person. With regard to the first, I can say that we have started with the Supreme Court to prepare an analysis of how the funds for free legal aid are spent in general. The basis or starting point for this analysis is this very question of yours, which is very well-founded, that we are here together trying to achieve a more rational use of these funds, especially at a time when the budgets of all budgetary users are limited. At the same time, this analysis will also provide a basis for any change or reflection on how these issues would be free of charge legal aid, which, as it is said, is given in bankruptcy proceedings in the form of an exemption from advance payment, which is a condition for the initiation of bankruptcy proceedings. Therefore, consider whether these funds can be used more rationally in these processes here as well. Here I should also say that, under the existing regulation of the Financial Business Act and forcible settlement, payment is a prerequisite for initiating bankruptcy when proposed by the debtor himself. This debtor may be a natural person and a legal person. If this advance is not paid, the bankruptcy procedure cannot begin. If a natural person or a legal person, in particular a natural person, does not have sufficient resources for survival, i.e. it meets the conditions laid down in the Free Legal Aid Act, then it belongs to the category of those persons who may be granted free legal aid, as I have already mentioned, in the form of exemption from payment of that advance. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the provision of Article 233 of the above-mentioned Financial Operating and Enforcement Act, which provides that, in the event that the value of the accumulated bankruptcy exceeds the amount of the advance, the amount to which the Court budgeted and thus the budget of the State, the court in charge of the bankruptcy proceedings decides that such payments shall be returned to the Court's good budget and shall give priority. So, to put it simply, if the value of the bankruptcy mass is greater than the debt, then the first payment from this purchase is that advance, the advance funds that the court has set up for such a person. So there's already a security guard here in terms of the reimbursement of these costs. It is true, however, that in recent times the approval of legal aid and thus the costs have increased rapidly, as well as in this context, as you correctly point out, the increase in the cost of free aid in the way of exempting payment of the advance. However, here I see no way to avoid this if the regime remains the same as it is; therefore, the premeditated assumption is that the procedure should be initiated at all. I would also like to point out that this Interdepartmental Working Group, which we have already announced earlier, is intended to amend or to introduce some more comprehensive amendments to the Financial Business and Settlement Act, was established as soon as we announced it. I think we will have some new arrangements before summer, based on the novel prepared by the previous government, and we will try to upgrade it and, in this context, also put some thought into this issue that we are talking about. At the same time, I repeat that I do not yet see a way to avoid it. Once again, as long as the advance is the basis for the initiation of the procedure and if the person who is the debtor and wishes to initiate the procedure does not have these funds and meets the other conditions of the Free Legal Aid Act, then it is simply necessary to maintain the rules in force. However, it is very likely - this analysis I have mentioned will show - that it is more rational to use resources for free legal aid in general, especially in this context we are talking about. On the basis of this analysis, we will assess this and, if we find a way, we will incorporate this into the amendment of the Financial Business Act and forced settlement.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Another question, Mrs. Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u260	Thank you very much for the explanations, Mr. Secretary. Here's what I'm asking: Is it also possible to determine in time when these changes can be expected? In this respect, in particular: Are you also thinking about longer-term systemic solutions? In terms of systemic solutions, these questions that you have asked yourself could also be answered. In particular, I am interested in long-term solutions in the area of BPP in terms of different regulation of this issue, perhaps even on the transfer of free legal aid procedures outside the judiciary. Please, if you can answer that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u261	Thank you very much. And this addition please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u262	Thank you. The deadline for the amendment of the ZFPPIPP, i.e. the Financial Business and Forced Settlement Act, is 30. 9. 2012, I can say that. I could not yet talk about the content solutions at this time, as we intend to cut into the current regime. It is certainly a starting point to make it more rational and more effective. As for the Free Legal Aid Act, it is this analysis that will show what to do in the future. But I think the idea you've proposed isn't bad, and we're going to take note of it, and we're going to think about this idea.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec will ask the question of two ministers, the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franc Bogovic, and the Minister for Justice and Public Administration, Dr Senko Plicaniu. Minister, who will answer first? Here you go, Dr. Plitschnik. I'm sorry, we'd like to hear the question first.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u264	Thank you. Nice greeting, Mr. President-in-Office, Mr. Secretary-General! Many owners of agricultural land and representatives of municipalities see the possibility of improving farming, regulating the work of infrastructure and also the possibility of improving and regulating the premises in which they work and live. Comissations, which is the subject of my question, can also be successfully addressed by all major interventions into a space that causes great problems to many. In the Commission procedure, these problems can be successfully resolved in a rather painful and fast way with relatively small costs, at least to be done, but the last amendment to the 2011 Land Book Act is from 1. 5. introduced an informationized land book, which has probably brought more problems and problems than a solution. This is pointed out by users, experts, representatives of geodetic administrations, representatives of administrative units and all others affected by the commotion. We are talking in particular about the problem of the lifting of land-book entries, local competences and the introduction of electronic investment in these proposals. So let me ask you a few questions. First of all, about the problem of the programming solution of the land book. It is clear that the current system does not allow for the registration of the commotions. How do you plan to solve this? As we know, until the renovation or electronic land book in practice, this was so that they could then be entered into the land book immediately. Thus, it was also ensured that the commercial participants as owners could normally use their land parcels. They are not allowed to do so under this law. What solutions will you suggest here? I'm also interested in: How and when will the individual complaints and decisions of the Commission be resolved? I also want to know: What is your opinion on the arbitral resolution of the issue of commissions? This is one of the topics which is probably also the future in this area. Then I wonder: How will you solve the problem of local jurisdiction? Do you defend the abolition or preservation of local powers? And in the end, let me ask you one more question about the problem of removing land-book entries: Are you planning to solve these problems with a new e-solution in the land book? That'll be it for now. I believe there are many questions, and I hope the answers will be interesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u265	Yes, and both ministers have only five minutes of time for all the answers. Here you go, Dr. Lulcanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u266	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members, Mr Lisec! I will answer the first part of your questions, I hope to be able to touch everyone, and then my colleague, Minister Bogovic, will be at the second part of the questions. Let me first explain that I am aware of this issue, which comes from your questions. I would also like to say that a Member of the National Assembly of Mags has also raised a written question with the same or similar content. Dejan Židan and we are preparing a broader written answer to this question. With regard to the specific problems you are mentioning, I should like to say the following: As soon as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Land Book of 2011, which established a comprehensive informationisation of the Land Book Procedure, we received a notice from the Ministry of Administration of the difficulties in entering the Commission’s decisions into the Land Book. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia was also informed of the problem without delay, in particular the record section of this Court, in which the operational implementation of the e-Land project or the information of the Land Book, as well as the supervision and management of the information system of the electronic land book, is the subject. It is a norm and still allows for the inclusion of the Commission’s decisions and contracts in the Land Book, but it is also provided for in these procedures that the application or notice of entry must be submitted electronically. By the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, we have received assurances that it is possible to enter the commotion decisions, i.e. in this electronic manner, but it has been shown that certain upgrades to the existing information system will be necessary to allow a new way of entering the commotion decisions, informationally, electronically, but not in a manual way, as has been the case so far and from which the problems arise. That's what we responded to at the Ministry right away and 8. 5. On a proposal from the Supreme Court, 2012 agreed to implement the procurement procedure for the upgrading of the electronic land book system in this part. It is precisely in this part where there are problems; that is, in the part relating to the registration of commotion decisions. According to the Supreme Court's assurances – I stress that those responsible for this – will make it possible for this upgrade to enter the land book more quickly and smoothly. What I can say is that I appreciate that this public procurement procedure, which I have told you will be completed as quickly as possible and that this upgrade will indeed solve this problem. In the second part, you ask what we intend to do at the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration in upgrading the land book system itself. You mentioned the problem of land-book entries. Here I can say that one of the projects of our ministry, which is also based on a coalition agreement, is in particular the merger of the information system of the Earth cadastra and the land book. This is the main priority that we will have to deal with one record and not two, as before; all in terms of simplification for users, so that the user can obtain all information by entering the information system, both about the cadastral, about the plot, about the boundaries of the plot, etc., and also about the legal issues that are on this plot, i.e. about property rights and other real rights. So far, this is the main goal. So far, we have not foreseen any more extensive interventions into the land book system itself, although we are also thinking about it, we know that the problems in the operation of the land book are more than they are, but we need to analyse this even more carefully and then I will be able to know more about this before summer, and certainly September.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Even the minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u268	Since there have been more questions for Mr Plitschanič, I believe that I will be able to answer myself more easily in this short time. Today, there are 59 complaints in the twenty-commissioned areas, which are still in the Ministry of Justice. From one to eleven of these complaints are located in one area. We know that Slovenians love their lands very much, so there are many complications. The procedures take a very different length of time because the complexity is also different. Sometimes it's a disorderly, uncoordinated land, cadastral conditions, then it's a misalignment with the condition, the possession sheet, and the state of nature. There are many evaluations, and this leads to complaints, and experts who then carry out an executive opinion are also needed, so these deadlines are also long. The assessment of colleagues is that, given the gravity of these problems, by May 2013, all these complaints could have been resolved somewhere, given [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u269	Another question, Mr. Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u270	Thank you. Since there have been a lot of questions, I'm giving a chance to have another answer. Above all, I am interested – and my question goes this way: What is the opinion on the arbitral resolution of the issue of commissions? If there is an opinion here or if there is any thought in this direction. Of course, I am interested in the issue of local competences regarding the removal of: Are you in favour of keeping local jurisdiction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u271	Thank you so much for asking. We have a question. Who's going to answer? Mr. Bogovich, please. We have a procedural complication in the sense that you can't apply. [[...]] Can you use the other microphone to sign up for the minister? He's got to be on his own. You'll warn us when it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u272	It is. I hope I can answer that. As far as local jurisdiction is concerned, last year, when this law was adopted, one of the substantive issues will not make it more difficult for many to resolve such land registrations, since this local jurisdiction is no longer taken into account. I think that it is primarily a matter of justice to consider whether such procedures, where problems need to be resolved on the ground, would be such a solution. With regard to arbitration, I must say that in my previous position as Mayor of the Municipality of Krško, I was involved in the commotion proceedings, where we had approximately 900 hectares of open comassions during a period of time, and that this arbitration between individuals has been done many times in certain procedures for the introduction of the comassation procedure. However, the second story is in this legal process, and I am assessing that it is likely that the arbitration procedure, like elsewhere, could speed up some of the problems that can be solved here. Maybe a colleague wants to add more to that.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Is there anything else you'd like to add, Dr. Lulcanic? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you so much for the questions and the answers. Next up, it's mag. Leja Hercegovac, who will question Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u274	Nice greetings to all present. We do not yet have a 2012 work programme at the Ministry of Health. We do not yet have a work programme for health reform in the ministry, but we do need it. Dear Minister, because there is a medical reform in preparation that includes amendments to several laws: the Health and Insurance Act, the Health Activity Act, the Health and Therapy Act, the Patients' Rights Act, the Mental Health Act – and alternative medicine – I ask you, Mr. Minister: When and in what time will the changes be ready? Indeed, the effectiveness of our health system depends on the timing and quality of the implementation of these laws. It is clear from your previous statements that the reform will indeed affect the existing rights and principles of the social state. That's why I'm asking you: How will the Ministry of Health finance and how will it monitor the use of funds and divide public and private health? Will the health service network be regulated on the basis of equal access to health services? When will the changes be ready, and at what time? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u275	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u276	Thank you. Your Honor! There are so many questions that I can speak for half an hour because I will not be able to answer you all quickly, you have asked very wide questions. Regarding the programme, I have also mentioned in previous responses what is the priority, what is the priority of work. These are certainly two laws that have a significant impact on the organisation and also on the financing of health care, namely the Health Care and Health Insurance Act and the Health Activity Act. Of course, the rest of the ministry's work, which you listed, is a lot. You need to know that these are laws that have been prepared for years and years before, some have been passed, some have not been. Within a short period of time, the ministry simply does not have enough people to run five or more parallel laws. That's how certain things have to wait. In addition, we also deal with other matters at the Ministry. There are also investments, projects such as eHealth, besides legislation, networking, the preparation of a general agreement that does not need a previous legal basis and so on. There will also be a social dialogue, which will take up quite a bit of time. I'm saying, I'm sorry that you canceled your meeting on this subject when you first came to my house for no reason. That would make it easier for you to explain a little more broadly. Of course, it's probably a more important part than what we do in the ministry, substantively. So, what are we going to do with these laws? I think I've also directed here: for the first time, my vision, which is probably not enough at this point. So, I want an accessible, solid public health system, a clear separation between private and public health. Of course, there are still many open questions, including within the coalition – as mentioned earlier, what we will do with the contribution rate, what will be the way to organise, what will be the basket of rights, how will we separate the supplementary insurance or additionally from the mandatory and so on. These are topics that are certainly in view of the importance of those which must be a matter of broader dialogue and dialogue with the social partners. That is why, too, this is why these topics were not a proposal for amendments under the Public Finance Balance Act, but to leave them for a regular procedure, for a regular admission procedure, including through the National Assembly. And any claim today about what will be at the end of the proposal would probably be unrealistic and premature on my part. Thus, apart from my views at this moment, it is very difficult for me to give completely concrete solutions, because I think it would be irresponsible. Of course, I could just write something, but I don't think that's it. And that would mean again, what has been going on for 10 years now, that none of these important laws would have been passed. So here I ask for some patience, according to the regular procedure, you will be informed in due time. What is a priority, we said; these are the two laws, and we will try, in some agreement with all of them, to the point that, I hope, would also be suitable for admission.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Another question, Mrs. Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u278	Thank you for your answer, Mr Minister, but my question was: a timeline, deadlines and which first law will I deal with. And once again, I ask you: Can you assure us that in the future you will stick to the deadlines you have set? What marriage will you first intercede, and when? Now you mentioned the Health and Health Insurance Act, but: When, Mr. Secretary? This is a very important question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u279	Yeah, it's really important. I suppose we will be able to prepare a proposal in the autumn, but it is not just up to us, but it is also up to us to reach an agreement with the social partners or not, and there will be a need to talk about solutions. That's not everything at the Ministry. We can write it relatively quickly when it will be suitable for reception, of course this is another question. I wish we had a proposal on the table this fall. Of course, I can't make a guarantee here.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Another suggestion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u281	In fact, we need a work program and exactly what you said: what happens on the table. This is very important and in fact a broad debate is needed and I ask you kindly to define a more decisive deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u282	Mag. Hercegovac, may I ask what your proposal was?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u283	Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u284	Procedural, what? For the general debate on [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u285	For a general discussion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u286	Okay. Thank you very much for the suggestion. We will decide on your proposal in the context of the votes. We are now moving on to the next question raised by Mrs Alenka Bikar, Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u287	Hello, everyone! Mr. Secretary! On 24 May 2012, the Government confirmed a complementary migration plan covering a comprehensive solution to the spatial problems of ministries and government services. If I focus mainly on the ministry, which is your ministry, which you are responsible for, I would like to know: What are the costs of moving the Ministry of the Interior under this government move plan? There is a variety of information in the media from €30 000 to €300,000, according to some figures, even €1 million. Of course, I am also interested in the costs associated with your proposal for the National Investigation Authority to move from Dimitrova to Litostrojska. This will result in additional costs for other ministries that will have to move because of this – if my data is true, the employees of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the Department of Nuclear Safety should move from Litostrojska. I want to know: Do you estimate that the Litostrojska building is adequately equipped for criminals, and if not, what share of the funds also falls on the additional equipment and adaptation of premises to Lithostroj crime activities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u288	Thank you for asking. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u289	Thank you very much. You will not be able to answer your question directly if you expected me to have exact numbers right now, because I just don't have them yet. But we can still use time to clarify some of the circumstances and also what the various media say on this subject. The Government's basic migration plan was adopted at the end of March and not the end of May; the date that you quoted on 24 May was only a correction of that migration plan, in the sense that so-called nuclear safety, if we simplify it, remained in Lithostrojska, which was not originally envisaged. Otherwise, another matter needs to be said. The Ministry of Interior and the police have 8 locations in Ljubljana today. All 8 locations are actually private premises. Inside these private areas is the largest or largest lease of the so-called Dimitrova NPU, which costs us 136 000 euros per month or about one million and a half per year. The migration plan foresees that we will be successful within one year — why within one year? Due to the fact that the old contracts are made by the fact that the cancellation deadlines are six months and sometimes are one year, I would stress that the majority of the cancellation deadlines are six months, so that by about 25 October we will move an important part of the employees and, among other things, we will cancel Dimiča in Ljubljana because the contracts will expire. And a few small contracts expire after one year, which means in March next year. The final goal will be as follows. The Ministry of the Interior, together with the police, will no longer be in the rented premises, but we will concentrate all the employees in Litostorska – unfortunately not all because there remains the Statistical Office and the Nuclear Security Authority. And the second part, where our employees will only be on Stefan 2. This will mean that we will fully say moved and that we will no longer benefit from the spaces that are in private growth and pay for these premises to private people. As far as moving costs are concerned, I can't tell you the numbers right now because I just don't have it. Why don't I have one? For a basic reason, because we are talking to the DSU about the part of the costs needed to move, taking over the DSU, so the rent will also be slightly higher, but it is only for all three institutions, both the statistical office and then nuclear security, as well as for us, to use this term, to squeeze the staff into smaller spaces, if I may say so. But the rooms will not be as luxurious as they were originally intended. That's why we're gonna have to get some chairs and a table, something special. Where do the different numbers of accommodation costs come from? Costs simply result from the fact that certain employees want more. When they move, they want to get something else, let's say. That's why such information comes to the media. I've heard even higher amounts, even three million has been heard, not one million, as you pointed out. But I will tell you this: I will also make it very clear that moving itself does not mean and will not mean any additional luxury. We will simply move, provide basic security conditions and that is all. No one's gonna make anything up. The moving costs at this point are not clear because we have to divide them between the DSU and us. If the DSU assumes certain costs in terms of purchasing tables, chairs and so on, then the rent will be slightly higher, otherwise vice versa. But what's most important about the whole thing, and that seems to me to have to tell you and the public, is this: our goal must be clear. The total rent for all eight premises that we have rented today is about two million and a half million per year, our goal is to pay less at a new location in Litostorski, of course; and this to our own state company, not to private people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bikar, do you have an additional question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u291	Sure. Now I feel like a teacher in front of a student who hasn't done his homework. I asked you about the numbers, you're making excuses that you can't tell me these numbers. Can't you really tell me? Don't you have any estimates of how much these movements are really going to cost? How much will we save on these movements? Litostrojski will also pay the rent when you move to Litostrojski, and it will need to be equipped to accommodate the employees of the MNZ in Litostrojski. And in order for the staff of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment to be able to move into the premises of Litostrojski, the staff of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environment and the Department of Nuclear Safety will have to leave the premises and move to the tenants. I don't know, I don't understand this math: How will you save in this case? That's what I'm really interested in. And if these costs are as high as they say, I don't know what's going to happen to our police, because on the other hand, you're cutting financials for police sports programs, for education, for police training. Don't you think you've gone to the wrong side of saving? After all, I wonder: Don't you worry about the psychophysical readiness of our police officers, which should actually be 100% – do you agree? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u293	Thank you very much. My beautiful purpose was to tell you everything that had to be said, I was very polite and correct, but now I see that I have to use the methods that I am also with Mrs Kresal because she then understood, but she did not understand some things before. If we're talking about moving costs, it's transportation and nothing else. Most of us will do it alone, only with what kind of ironwork we will need help, preferably from the military — so that we are clear. As for the purchase of equipment, we will not purchase it, except for things where there are more tables and chairs, because of the rejuvenation of the workplaces or more employees we bring to the same premises. Next thing you know, nuclear safety's not moving anywhere, so there's not gonna be any costs. Nuclear safety stays there, so there's no cost. As far as the rest is concerned, I would like to do what I did with Mrs Kresal, who I explained to her in a clear manner with my wallet, but I will do it anyway, because we are talking for the first time, in the following way: The Ministry of the Interior is today paying two and a half million euros on an annual basis for private rent, including Mr Pogačar in his private pocket. There's a million and a half of that money. The Ministry of the Interior will pay DSU in the future. DSU is a state firm. In other words: the Ministry of the Interior or the State will place money from the left to the right pocket in this case, it will still remain the money of the state, as you can terminate DSU at any time and thus become the owner of real estate and credit. However, I have already said in general that the objective of the Government or within this Ministry of the Interior is to lower these costs and lower them than they are today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u294	Thank you very much. You don't have any further suggestions, so let's move on. The question will be posed by the Magus. Mr Stefan Tisel to the Minister for Infrastructure and Space Mr Zvonk Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u295	Nice greetings to all, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! I ask the Minister of Infrastructure and Space Mr Zvonet Černač: How will the normal functioning of the quarry, which this year is said to be in 2012, be ensured? We know that a new law or a revised Mining Act was adopted in 2010 and entered into force with 1. 1. 2011. This law requires new conditions, there is further agreement, and does not take into account existing licences and requires a new concession for existing quarrying as well. The biggest problem is that the area of quarry must be defined in municipal spatial acts. But we know that these acts are still very much in bandages for years and years to come. I therefore ask how it will be possible for those who have now worked after the concession, the concession expires, invested in equipment and technology, which has not yet been depreciated, and because of the economic crisis, the activity has fallen significantly and has halved. Excavations have not reached 50 % of the planned, and at the same time they are also implementing the rehabilitation prescribed in the existing areas, which costs a bit, there have been no new customers, since transport is always more expensive and it is not worth transporting to longer locations. Some concessionaires are running out of concessions this year, so I ask them to work smoothly on: How can these quarryes continue to function until a new law or amendment of the Mining Act is passed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u297	Thank you very much for this question, too, to honourable Member Tisl. I've spoken about the Mining Act once in the National Assembly. At that time, I said that it was a certain problem to continue concession relations in cases where raw materials were still in existence and could be exploited, a novelty of the Mining Act adopted in 2010, because through implementation it had been shown that there was an obstacle to normal renewal or the possibility of further exploitation, in particular as regards quarrying on the basis of concessional relations. The Mining Act provides that when the concession contract is terminated, the mining right shall also cease. However, the law allows such a concessionaire to submit an application for the extension of that mining right or, if there is no such extension, an application for mining rights for the exploitation of mineral raw materials in the same mining area during the duration of the concession contract where there is still potential for exploitation in a given area. Therefore, if an existing concessionaire does not submit such an application to be assessed in accordance with the provisions of the Mining Act, it is specifically Article 50 that speaks of the conditions under which the mining right can be extended. I can list some of these conditions. The law states that the period of validity of the mining right cannot be extended unless, due to large investments in the exploitation of certain mineral raw materials in a given area and in the case of regular and well-exploited exploitation due to higher forces, it was impossible to exhaust stocks in the extraction area. There are several such cases in the Republic of Slovenia. In such a case, the mining right to use in the event of the exploitation of energy minerals may be extended for a maximum of 10 years and, in the case of the exploitation of other mineral raw materials for a maximum of three years, whenever the holder of the mining right to use the relevant evidence proves the existence of stocks of mineral raw material within the extraction space and provided that the extraction area has been subject to a prescriptive land recovery degraded by mining parts. Furthermore, the law provides that, for the extension of the mining right to exploitation, the mining right holder may apply before the expiry of the time limit for which the mining right has been granted, and that extension shall be decided by the Ministry responsible for mining by decision, in which case it shall be the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. The decision shall be extended if it is established that the holder of the mining right has exercised the mining right in a prescribed manner prior to the application. Then, if it is established that the conditions referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article have been met in order to extend the period of validity of the mining right, this means that it was not possible to exploit the full potential at a given location in normal exploitation. Thirdly, there is no other restriction laid down by law to extend the period of validity. Thus, in all cases where, on the basis of existing concession contracts for the exploitation of individual mineral raw materials in the case of quarry, there is further potential for exploitation and, during the interim period or during the duration of the concessional relationship, all relevant works have been carried out in accordance with the awarded concession, there is already a legal possibility under this law to obtain a decision to extend such mining rights by granting or obtaining a new concession for the period for which that concession has been granted so far in the same area. On this occasion, it must be said that in the past two types of these mining rights have been granted, some for shorter periods, some for longer periods, some for 10 years, some for 20 years, in some cases also on the basis of a potential stock assessment. In individual cases, it occurred as you yourself found that the exploitation was not as extensive or as strong as was envisaged at the time the concession was granted. In all these cases, the conditions for renewal are already fulfilled under the current law if the application is submitted before the end of the concession relationship.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u298	Thank you very much. A further question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u299	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. That's exactly what this is about, because in my office, people who are interested in having these quarryes are talking. It is a small quarry in the countryside, in the periphery, where a few jobs depend on the work continuing to be provided locally by the local population, construction workers, asphalters and the like. This is precisely the case when exploitation has not yet been to the extent envisaged. A lot of funds have been invested, applications have also been sent, but no answers have yet been received – on the basis of this 50th article of the existing law, which allows for these special cases. At the same time, they also propose to involve the professional public in planning a change of law, such as the Society of Technical Leaders, as only in this way could they make a real life law that can be implemented in real terms and that quarryes with valid permits of exploitation could normally continue to operate normally. Again, thank you for your answer. So, the way is, so we can expect them to get the right answers and they can continue to work in these quarrys. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u300	Minister, an additional explanation, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u301	Thank you very much for this opportunity to answer further. Hold what you've learned. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act, practice has shown that the implementation of these provisions does not take place in the most optimal manner. For this reason, we have also made certain changes over the past months regarding the enforcement of the provisions of this law, but one of the key novelties that will allow the procedures that have been initiated not only in the past few months to be completed within the last year is something that will be completed within the optimal timeframe. I hope that we will be able to address this bill at the July meeting of the National Assembly and, at worst, at the next meeting. At the Ministry, of course, we will do everything we can to speed these up in all those cases where open procedures are involved, and within the most optimal timeframe where conditions for continued exploitation are warranted, we will also conclude them.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u302	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Jerko Čehovin, who will ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u303	Thank you very much, Madam President. A nice greeting to the 23rd Members and three ministers, who are still in the Chamber! While the whole of Slovenia deals with the question of what is happening in South Korea, who wrote something, who said something, there are other things happening in the background with us. I ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment. According to some data, the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests has paid high compensation to foreigners on the basis of Article 72 of the Denationalisation Act. More claims have been submitted which, according to the opinion of some experts, the Fund will not be able to settle. The estimate is that the total amount of compensation will be close to EUR 100 million. In this case, the courts may book flags, the so-called asset seals of the Fund, which means the closure of the performance and the subsequent netting of property claims. This means that there will be very little property left for the country. I ask you, Minister Bogovich: What will you do if the Fund is unable to pay compensation and the court will book a lien on the assets of the fund? Why do the relevant institutions, including the State Defence, not ensure the protection of national interest by correctly calculating huge investments in these forests, which would be deducted from the value of compensation for inability to manage? Why are the calculations not subject to appropriate rules or instructions to specify the methodology for calculating compensation? Thank you for the questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u304	For the answer. Here you go, Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u305	Thank you for that question. This is a question that has already been discussed in the previous Assembly of the State, where the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food has discussed this issue. There was also a talk when the law on conformity was amended and there was a serious issue with major consequences. As you said, the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia in the area of compensation under Article 72 of the Denationalisation Act and Article 145c of the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions is liable to the payment of these compensations due to the inability to manage the property that has been returned in denationalisation proceedings over the years. To date, the Fund has already paid €216 thousand 954 for 10 million. These include both compensations, interest, justice costs and this year 4 million €823 000 have been paid in this year. There are both some out-of-court proceedings and court claims, so there are out-of-court claims for 3 million 480 thousand and 18 million and a half. As you can see, these are serious and large numbers, which, as I have already said, are also a serious threat to the operation of the Fund, which you have also correctly identified. The fund in this area, together with lawyers and in discussions with those who submit these requests, seeks to reach out-of-court settlement as far as possible. Some of this was concluded, some of it was court-martialed, as I said. The Fund has adopted an internal methodology for calculating this amount of compensation, separately for agricultural land and for forests, where it takes into account exactly what you have said, such investment in land, forests, management and, as I have already said, such an internal methodology has been made. The compensation shall be calculated on the basis of this methodology, which shall be taken into account if the parties agree and reach an out-of-court settlement. In these claims there are many significant differences, even for a three-folder, four-fold. I know these calculations, the Director has already informed me of this, and it is very difficult to reach this settlement many times, and the courts then leave it, or in court proceedings, often obtain judicial expert opinions, which I can peacefully say are very different from those amounts at the end which the Fund has drawn up under this methodology. So many times these major differences occur, and the Fund has many serious differences and complaints about these procedures and so on. As you mentioned before — and it is right that we all know — this is a serious threat. As far as the trust fund's assets are concerned. The Fund is basically the one who manages state assets, but is legally bound by these matters, so it will certainly be necessary to seek solutions in the future, first to achieve the best possible settlement, and, secondly, to provide resources for these settlements. The extreme option is also actually to settle with possible land replacements, which, as I have already said, are owned by the State, not owned by the Fund. But this is one serious issue that we will be dealing with. The number you mentioned is a little bit too high.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Mr Chehovin has an additional question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u307	Mr. Bokovic, thank you for the correct answer. I think that by answering correctly, you can also be an example to a number of other ministers from your government. In fact, we do have some strange legislation that, on the one hand, evaluates everything that was impossible to control and, on the other hand, does not evaluate what has been invested in these lands and which has actually added value. I think we should partially change this legislation here. Are we really going to give the last remnants of state forests to foreigners and to those who have received returned property of feudal origin? It is quite surprising that this methodology for calculating compensation is not based on any specific government regulation or other sub-legislative regulation. This is more or less left to the selected judges of the forestry profession. It would be quite interesting to see what is the list of these evaluators who have completely different criteria when they share estimates for denationalisation beneficiaries or when they share assessments of the forest flag for banking institutions. I think it would be right, given that you yourself have admitted that it is a major problem for your ministry or government to respond adequately to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u308	What additional explanation? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u309	As far as expert opinions are concerned, they are taken into account in judicial proceedings, while this methodology prepared by the Fund is based on exactly the known principles of how they are in the past and how costs and revenues from forests are still being accounted for today. There is also a serious problem in this case when courts make very different assessments of these revenues from these forests, as they have in the past realized for the country. This is also a serious question of how to proceed. As you have already mentioned, I am very serious about this issue, which I intend to open at the government level when adopting the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests programme, and also in this way from the government level, to draw attention to this issue and at the same time to find solutions, which, as I have already said, go primarily in this direction to provide funds. Recent amendments to the Law on the Agricultural Lands Fund have also led to the abolition of some of the incomes that are now being shared, so that a serious debate will have to be held on this issue. As far as the case law itself and the court branches are concerned and in view of this delimitation of these branches, it is likely that there will be somewhere else to speak than only at the government level.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Proposal for a general hearing?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u311	Yes, I propose, in accordance with Article 246 in particular, because the Minister himself said that it was a serious problem for us to have a serious discussion of the problem in the National Assembly as well. Although I believe that you may be preparing some changes to the legislation, unfortunately, experience teaches us that it is better to have something in stock than to just trust that you will do it. In fact, even though you said that this figure of EUR 100 million I was talking about was not possible or much smaller, you have already listed quite a million euros. I think, along with the various, I'll say, interest, late interest, and so on, you can get close to that number I was talking about. That is why I think it is right to have a general hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u312	Thank you for your proposal, which we will decide on as part of the vote. It is now up to Mrs Mateja Pučnik to raise the question to the Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u313	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Hello, everyone! Dear Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenak, on the 13th day of Puerto Rico's defence, you stressed that the relationship between police and citizens can only be improved by quality police work. Before continuing, I would like to welcome one of the recent quality parts of police officers who completed a successful action last month by criminals and police officers in a large-scale international criminal investigation into organised crime. The quality of the police officer’s work is certainly linked to the appropriate material and moral evaluation of police work, the quality of equipment and working resources. It is also linked to proper leadership, human relations and internal sense of police affiliation. In relation to citizens, this is reflected in security. However, I am well aware that the quality of police work makes the scope of administrative tasks that everyone has to do much more difficult. At the April session, in addition to reorganising within your ministry, I have already asked you further about removing administrative barriers to police work. According to my available data, a policeman spends 60 % of his working time at a table in filling out the forms listed above. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary-General: How is the project to remove administrative barriers taking place? How are you, or are you going to relieve the officers of administrative work so they can be more active where we really need them? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u314	Here you go, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Maybe first a few words about the relationship between the police and the citizens, which is what you started with. Indeed, in the modern world, they mainly talk about the so-called community police work, which means that it is about solving the security of the problems in relation to the local community, or the community-police community, because the community and the police are actually partners. I have really talked about these matters in Portorož at one expert consultation and, of course, this police work in the community is the foundation of Europe, and that is what we are working for. But the essence of your question is administration and administrative obstacles. 60% – this information is accurate, it comes from some research a few years ago, more recent research in this area has not been done, but I believe that this data is probably even worse for today, meaning that they are probably even more administratively burdened. The draft preparation of administrative barriers started right at the very beginning of my arrival, although it has to be said that some efforts have already been made. To illustrate a few figures, see, the police are looking at a number of over 33,000 crimes at the annual level, where, in fact, the perpetrators are being persecuted on a so-called proposal for which a proposal needs to be made. The police then deal with a number of crimes, as many as 12,000 in the last year, where material damage is below €100. Here, of course, it strikes at the question whether the administrative costs of the state are with the police, with the judiciary and others, greater than this stolen item. Of course, this dilemma must not in some way be, because then it would be allowed to steal everything that is up to EUR 100. However, we must, of course, reduce the administration within this and reduce everything that the process will also be significantly simpler. I have within this Article 2 of the Police Act a number of options to give some guidance and guidance, and this year I have issued a number of them in this area alone. In some cases, however, the situation is such that legal changes are needed and it is not possible to take decisive steps forward without legal changes. Of course, it is not just so-called wealth crime, which is a major burden on police officers, but it is also a series of other administrative tasks, such as payment orders, detention forms, house investigation forms, personal investigation forms and so on, which have recently been extremely exceptional, I must stress this, have become rich and actually constitute one major obstacle. Now, if I may continue, I'll say it like this. We have already settled some things that are not related to the amendment of the legislation. Some things will still be settled, and some things I expect to be settled in the autumn when we change the Penal Code, the Criminal Procedure Act and the Offences Act, which, of course, is the jurisdiction of the justice ministry, and with them we also make concrete arrangements and make concrete solutions. To conclude, perhaps what we have been able to do so far, I stress that this is what has been done without legal change. First, simplifications were made in the area of payment orders, or certificates of fines paid. These forms covered as many as 3 pages, today a number of these boxes have already been deleted, and police officers are no longer fulfilling this. This is a payment order or a notice of a violation. So, today the cops are kind of meeting, I'll say, three pages of these boxes, but they're like five. If I'm allowed, I'll be able to continue because I have a few more cases, but time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u316	Thank you very much. An additional question, Mrs. Pučnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u317	Thank you so much for saying that again. Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. In view of the fact that you have already stressed that you have proposed amendments to legislation for such cases, such as amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, I would like to add to the question: When and in what direction will these foretold changes take place? Thank you for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u319	Thank you very much. In this area, I must say that we have done something without changing the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u320	Minister, you've been too quick to sign up again because time is running out.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Something has already been done in this area without the amendment of the Penal Code, namely criminal charges of so-called bountiful crime, criminal charges against an unknown offender and the withdrawal of a motion for prosecution. Here in front of me is one form that now covers a page and a half, but earlier it was four pages. However, what will have to wait for changes to the law is the following: a record of a personal investigation by order of the court and a record of a personal investigation without a court order. There were two forms here before, a total of four pages, we managed to get it on the 1.5 page. I must say, it's not in effect yet, it's waiting for changes to the law. Furthermore, the minutes of the investigation of the dwellings and other premises without the order of the minutes of the investigation of the dwellings and other premises, with a total order of 4 pages, two forms, will be drawn up on 1.5 forms. The detentions, the famous ones too, the detention decisions we know, the detention decisions we know, the 5 pages were met by the police, we predict on 1.2 pages – I stress when the law is amended – the detentions, the official notes, on this topic before 2 pages, we predict in the future 1 page. Perhaps an interesting thing is an official note on the seizure of liberty, a decision on the seizure of liberty or detention, we now have two documents where police officers meet 6 pages of data, after amending the law, and I predict that it will soon be in the autumn, and they will meet 2 pages of data. Official detention note, this case is up to 6 hours, 3 pages, we anticipate 1 page, I stress – after the amendment of the law. I have listed only some cases, probably not possible to list, but I stress that there are probably many other areas where this thing needs to be taken and done in order to ensure that the policeman is more on the road, it is said at home that he is more on the ground and that he is less in the office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Alenka Jeraj also has a question for the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u323	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Tomorrow, at a meeting of the National Assembly, we will be discussing the amendment of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. These changes are more technical in nature because we need to bring the law into line with the Government Act and the State Administration Act, which have transposed the powers of the State Prosecutor's Office under the auspices of the Ministry of the Interior. In your reply to my fellow Member's question at the previous meeting, you announced that, after talking to the state prosecutors, the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office would also have to be substantially amended. In doing so, you have said that you do not want to dismiss the current Attorney General's Office, but it is about changes and additions to strengthen the role of both the Prosecutors and the Attorney General. A while ago, we were able to read in the media that a law enforcement policy had not yet been adopted, which should be adopted by the Attorney-General following a previously reasoned opinion of the Council of State. I am assessing myself, which is why the law also requires that this is a strategic document of the prosecution and that it also means directing the activities of state prosecutors, as well as the police, towards achieving a specific objective. Persecution policy is certainly an urgent starting point in the preparation of measures that will enable police and state prosecutors to work in the investigation and prosecution. Many times we say that the prosecution is not effective, and probably as public as well as I wonder what this means, so we have not yet adopted a policy of persecution, when we will or could say that the prosecution is operating without a compass, what we will be focusing on. I'm going to allow myself one review. Last year, when I, as President of the Commission of Inquiry, also addressed the State Prosecutor's Office with a criminal complaint in some of the cases that we have investigated in our committee, I also proposed to the Attorney-General to set up a special investigation group for certain people, which we have also investigated ourselves, and this did not happen. Well, this is now done, but a special group was set up at the end of March. Again, we can ask ourselves why two months after the Tax Administration had already filed a criminal complaint on this subject. In short, I want to know: What measures do you foresee in the substantive sense and when can we expect a new Law on the State Prosecutor's Office?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u324	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Perhaps two words about the law you mentioned and which is at this meeting of the National Assembly. That law is indeed of a technical nature and transfer the powers of the judiciary to the interior ministry, something else, so in autumn we are preparing a so-called B novel, which I will talk about below. However, the law, which will be on the agenda of the National Assembly this week, raised quite a lot of dust in public because it was said that we were changing the law so that one person, specifically Mrs Brezigareva, could leave the interior ministry to the cabinet of the President of the Government. Of course that's not true. I mean, of course that's not true. Although the law has indeed been changed in this direction, it allows all 180 prosecutors to do what we, citizens, all others, are already able to do. In fact, if any of us becomes an official, the Secretary of State, the Minister, the Member, as you know, he has the right to return to his post, under certain conditions of course. The D.A. doesn't have that. And that's why we predicted it for all 180 prosecutors. And we have not done as was done in the previous term, in the previous term my predecessor, Mr Zalar, at the Ministry of Internal Affairs or then in the role of Minister of Justice, changed the law only to allow him to dismiss a certain person, namely the Attorney-General, and hired a new person of his own volition. That's what it was like back then. This is not how it's done and it won't. The essence of your question, however, concerns the law that is yet to come. I cannot give the final data on what will happen in this law at this time, for a fundamental reason, because we are preparing it because there are still a number of consultations with prosecutors, discussions with prosecutors, communication with the State Prosecutor's Council, and therefore there are no final solutions. But what you say is that the so-called policy of persecution is not yet in place. We've been waiting for this policy of persecution for six months. The policy of prosecution shall be determined by the Attorney General. That way, there should be a question of where else to go, or I'll have to address it, probably another time. This is an important document, a document that actually represents the compass of the state prosecutor's office, to know where the state prosecutor's office will go, to know what this organisation will give priority to and what it will give less priority to. I'm afraid that document, at least according to my information, is not there yet. As far as the changes are concerned, I stress that it would be difficult to take my word for it because it is impossible to predict everything. But it turns out we're going to be changing the law in the fall in about the following directions. Indeed, we are now having several discussions with the state's prosecutors. Discussions with the state prosecutors are under way, discussions are under way with the State Prosecutor's Council, and we are also awaiting the views of the Attorney General. The direction of change will be around the next. In particular, we want to debirocratise procedures in the prosecution's organisation. This law, which was adopted in the previous term, covers three times as many articles as we have known before. Before we knew about 70, 80 articles, today we know 240 of them adopted in the previous term. It appears that the law is rather inoperable, that it requires de-liberation, that it has a number of errors and ambiguities, that prosecutors do not find ways to regulate certain things, and that is the first direction. Second of all, the law makes some sense. I warned of this nonsense at a time when I didn't know I'd be in charge of the state's attorney's office. And that's when I said it was about politicizing the D.A.'s office. Of course, we will not change any of what we said in the previous term in the opposition, but I intend to keep a clear course in the same direction. If you'll excuse me, I'll explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u326	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u327	I'll add something else. Then we can agree that the Attorney General, as previously said, did not do his homework or did what he was supposed to do. I'm going to stress my criticism again. As I said last year, I have already proposed to set up a special group, because we have also seen the problem of non-participation of state authorities, the Tax Administration, the Anti-Money Laundering Office, the NPU, and this has not happened. Since last June, the Attorney-General has had such a proposal from, I shall say, probably not an insignificant institution or an investigative commission. There's something else I'm curious about. There were also reports in the media that after a criminal complaint was made by the Tax Administration in January, where again they also proposed to set up a special group and after two months the Attorney General decided and also established it, thank God, finally, we could say. Has there been any monitoring of how those data might have affected Mr Jankovic's re-proposal as Prime Minister of the Government? In the media, we have been able to read that information has been given by the Attorney General's Office to the person who can submit such a proposal with regard to the conduct of the investigation. Has internal control been carried out or has the prosecution found anything in this regard?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u328	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Now there's something to say here, and I'm not going to talk about this special group you're talking about. Of course, I have certain information, which I can access under the Police Act or under the Public Prosecutor's Act. I'm going to leave things to both organs to do their job, because you just have to do it. As far as surveillance is concerned, we have yet to exercise special control in the prosecution, I stress, we have not yet done so. If I can go on where I ended up before, I'll say it like this. I had already pointed out some major nonsense in the state prosecutor's law, namely, the State Prosecutor's Order is prescribed by the minister — this is what the law says — and he gets the opinion of the Attorney General. That's what I criticized last year, and I said it was the politicization of the prosecution. But that's what we have today. In the same course of the opposition MP, despite the fact that I am serving as minister today, I still feel the same way. Now we will change the law in this regard. It should be prescribed by the Minister, but proposed by the Attorney General. The Attorney General is the one who has to make order in his house, not that the Minister does it to him. This is one of the possible changes. The other possible changes are, of course, call procedures for prosecutors. These last today by getting a prosecutor after one six months. That's unacceptable, that's a suggestion. We need to do these procedures more quickly. This will also be one of the directions in which I count on us to change the law. It is also a matter of some other things, such as that we intend to propose deleting the promotion of the title by law, without the envisaged procedures for progress in cases where the Attorney General is appointed as a national representative at the Office for European Judicial Cooperation – Eurojust and similar matters. In short, there are no final provisions of the law, no law has yet been written, changes in the law are being made and will go in the direction of strengthening the role of the prosecution and strengthening the role of the prosecutor, removing administrative obstacles, eliminating nonsense, shortening procedures, which should all contribute to a better part of the prosecution's organisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u330	Thank you very much. The following will be Finance Minister Dr. Janez Šuštaršič, who has been acquitted since 18.30, and the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs mag. Andre Visiak, who is just as excused and absent, asked Mr Jožef Horvat a question. Are you still going to ask me a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u331	Thank you very much, colleague vice president. Allow me to present the question to you, and I also expect the addressees to answer my question orally at the next meeting in order to maintain this interactivity somehow. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, a nice greeting in this rather late hour of all! Surely, like you, colleagues and colleagues, I meet myself in the field, and, of course, here in the National Assembly with citizens and citizens with different problems. I must say that I really had a lot of these meetings in my office, and more in fact also in the visits of the New Slovenia Group on the ground. Monday will be the fourth such visit to the field, of course not some trips to the field, but this day is an extremely active, extremely busy schedule when we meet economists, schools, various public institutions and so on and detect the problems that are on the ground and then in the form of sent questions, initiatives or whatever, we launch them to our ministries. I am pleased that we also receive positive responses from ministries. Also, this question that I will present is actually the essence of our visit, our conversations with economists, who, at least to me, are somehow the closest, favorite interlocutors, because they know very clearly how to discuss their problems. We all know the importance of a small economy for the national economy, since healthy micro and small enterprises are a guarantee of the economic development of the country. Slovenia is also not in a European relationship and must not be an exception. Unfortunately, many entrepreneurs have recently reported that they are severely affected by payment non-discipline in Slovenia, are often in an unfair position, are responsible for their business with all their assets, in the payment of contributions and taxes, they are immediately demanded by the State, and in many cases they do not get paid work, especially when they are subcontractors. The great problem faced by small businesses is also unfair competition – a number of companies that employ workers in black and offer significantly lower prices, which, of course, harm subscribers, the country, companies that work in line with the rules, and not least workers who work in black. This is where entrepreneurs place great hopes in the operation of the Labour Inspectorate, which operates within the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. That's why the Minister, both of you, asks: What measures will they take in the action against work in black and with regard to the introduction of payment discipline?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u332	You will receive an oral response at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Mrs Irena Tavčar will ask the Minister for Infrastructure and Space Mr Zvonk Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u333	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Your Honors are here! The construction crisis, which has affected a good part of the country's construction companies, is mainly reflected in the area of unemployment and in nature as unfinished works, for which there is no need to be a reason for the lack of financial resources. Therefore, I refer my question to the problem of the completion of a 35-year-old dilapidated dilapidated dilapidated dilapidated dilapidated dilapidated dilapidated dilapidated dilapidated capillary. At that time the density of traffic on the slopes of the Polish Valley began to increase, mainly due to the use of the Uranium Mine in the Žirovsko vrh. Studies, variants, idyllic projects were followed, but it was repeatedly stuck with owners whose land was to be covered by the bypass route. Transport, of course, increased and today reached a tenfold of that 35 - year - old. Finally, the inhabitants of this area awaited the start of the construction a few years ago, and with a measure of patience, they beat themselves every day through the narrow throats with the traffic of the overcrowded Škofje Loka. Since this project is simply out of luck, work has recently stopped in two stages, at one due to the difficulties of the operator Primorje from Ajdovščina and, on the other hand, because of the cancellation of the construction permit of the third stage of the first stage of the carriage. I would like to point out that the economy in the valley from Žirov to Škofje Loka stagnates because investors, despite their natural circumstances, do not choose to invest in projects whose operation would be very limited from the point of view of the impossible traffic conditions. I ask Minister Chernač: How does the Ministry plan to resolve the situation? Time is no longer much, since the 43 million euro bond, also financed by the European Union, should be completed in August 2013. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u334	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u335	Thank you very much for that question. What I can find out with you is that this deadline is no longer real. August 2013 is definitely no longer a real deadline for the completion of this undertaking. At the Ministry and, in particular, at the Slovenian Directorate for Roads, we will, of course, do everything possible to make the extension of the conclusion as short as possible. We estimate that if we succeed in doing so, this deadline could be delayed for about six months, depending on several factors. As has been found, it is about stopping parts due to two different problems. In one part, i.e. on the third stage of the first stage, which includes the construction of a circular cross on the Suha and the bridge over Sora, the construction permit was lifted. The Administrative Court is the decision of the Administrative Unit of Škofja Lok of 1 April 2011 by judgment of 15. 3. 2012 the termination and the matter returned to the administrative authority of the first stage in the re-trial procedure. In this regard, appropriate clarifications and additions to the project documentation for the renewal of the procedure for obtaining the construction permit for the third stage of the first phase shall be prepared by the Slovenian Directorate for Roads. The construction of this third stage will continue after the final construction permit has been renewed. However, the date of finalisation of this act depends in particular on the course of the procedure carried out through the competent administrative unit and the resolution of any complaints at the secondary level. I personally assess that this is not an essential part of the problem, so that the abolition of this building permit could leave this deadline and the timeline somewhat normal. A major problem is this second part, which has been mentioned, of the problem with the main contractor or with the operator of the Primorje. In this black scenario, the directive has started to prepare itself a long time ago because the circumstances and the situation have shown that Primorje will not be able to complete these parts due to liquidity problems and all the other problems. And that actually happened on June 6th this year. On that day, the coast completely halted the implementation of the works on this undertaking, which means that, in view of the bankruptcy of this company, it will be necessary to initiate the re-procurement procedure without delay and to seek out a new contractor. The problem is so much more difficult because it is highly likely that, according to the nature of the works still to be carried out in this project, such an operator in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia is unlikely to be found. The problem is for two reasons, first because of the timeline and second because of the value of this project. It is highly likely that it will also be extremely difficult to complete this project within the framework of the established financial structure, which has somehow been set up under an existing contract with the current contractor. However, we estimate that, regardless of all these procedures to be carried out, it will be possible, within the framework of the procedures laid down by the Public Procurement Act and other working procedures, to conclude this project with a delay of approximately half a year, which still means that we will complete this investment within the deadlines allowing us to draw on European funds for this purpose. It is true, however, that during this period of delay this will pose an additional problem for normal mobility in this area, which, as you yourself have mentioned, has been a problem for some time now. So the answer in this direction is that the archdiocese will be completed with some time delay, but still in the way it was planned at the beginning.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u336	Mr Ivan Grill will ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u337	Good evening to all present, especially to the ministerial assembly! Mr. Minister, we are witnessing again the problems of human interaction with the great beasts. Of course, I have a bear in mind, because last month we witnessed a bear attack on a man who was walking. In addition, we have seen many times the observations of people that a bear is present in settlements, villages and even in the vicinity of big cities, both Ljubljana and the New City. The bear was spotted at the Dlž, on Otokec, where they could even record it — these are villages right next to the city — and, of course, at the cartel. The bear now threatens people who walk near the woods, even in the woods. Many times we can see the footprints of a bear’s paws, which means that the bear is very close to the environment, where people live and where they can relax or walk. This is now becoming a major threat to humans, and it is justified to fear many times whether it is safe to go into the forest or not. Furthermore, the bear also does harm to beekeeping. Many times, he is an individual beekeeper or the hive of the victim is attacked and destroyed by a bear. This is becoming a big problem today. That's why I'm asking you: Is the ministry in charge dealing with this problem, or how will this issue be addressed? Because, finally, in Slovenia, according to the data, if they are true, I do not know the most precisely, there are close to 500 bears in Slovenia. 15 years ago, this number was probably about 280, which means it's almost twice as many. We are therefore rightly asked whether we need to have such a large number of these dangerous beasts in Slovenia, or not to consider exporting them to another country, where there are also conditions for their stay, to relieve the Slovenian forests of too many of these dangerous animals. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u338	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u339	Thank you very much. Thank you for this current question, which tells us how sometimes co-existence is difficult. As we know, a bear is an animal with the status of an animal protected under the Regulation on protected wildlife. It is a species that is also under the special strict protection of a number of EU conventions and directives, the most important are the Berne Convention and the Habitats Directive. The Republic of Slovenia is also party to these conventions, which means it must respect them. In Slovenia, the management of the brown bear is based on the established strategy for the management of the brown bear in Slovenia adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in 2002 and from here onwards on the basis of operational action plans applicable for a certain period of time and also adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In Slovenia, for the conduct of all institutions and individuals on the basis of these documents, we are working consistently to pursue the two equivalent goals, to preserve the type of brown bear in the long term, along with the natural environment, while at the same time allowing co-existence, co-existence with people and activities. As we can see, sometimes this, especially in the springtime, is very difficult. The population of the brown bear in Slovenia, based on the exceptions allowed by these legal documents with researchers, with carriers, with the possibilities of an environment, people, is affected annually by the shooting. The disposal shall be carried out in accordance with the Regulation on the withdrawal of specimens of brown bear and wolf from nature, the basis for the preparation of the Regulation and the expert opinion shall be prepared by the Institute for the Forest of the Republic of Slovenia, and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia shall provide a written opinion on this expert opinion. This document shall then be dealt with by two other designated committees of the Ministry of Field Affairs prior to the issuance of the Rules of Procedure. The first is an expert, composed of experts in the management of the brown bear, the second includes co-users of the premises such as representatives of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of Small Farmers of Slovenia, the Agricultural and Landing Chambers of Slovenia, the Society against Animal Torture, the Society for the Rights of Animals and the Administration of the Hunting Association of Slovenia. Therefore, the whole range of these stakeholders that are trying to be treated as equally as possible and ultimately to develop this shoot-out programme. The amount of the shot includes the so-called regular shooting in the hunting age and also the so-called emergency shot, which is any time the need arises and arises, as we can see, due to the conflict between bear and man. In accordance with the rules in force, it is possible to shoot 74 bears for the period until October 2011 until September 2012 and 71 bears were shot by the end of May. This means that from here forward to autumn only an extraordinary shot is possible, that a regular shootout and thereby regulating the population, according to what I have mentioned, has already been made. However, if there is an increase in the number of extraordinary shootings, this should then be taken into account in the next period. Each case in the field shall be dealt with by the staff of the Institute of Forests of the Republic of Slovenia and shall, on the basis of the professional criteria, decide on the submission of a proposal by the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for such a proposal to be approved or not approved. The Intervention Group, which is always in operation, is also appointed to reach a 24-hour response rate of 112, 113 and in these cases it always reacts. These unpleasant events have been quite a thing in the past. The average is around one to three per year, this is statistics for the last 30 years, and in the last 70 years 3 deaths have been registered in this area, and in the last 70 years. However, as I said in the introduction, most of these events occur during the spring of the arrivals from the lair when they leave for open areas such as meadows, pastures which are also close to food, especially when the bear appears with the cubs. Then there may be more to the matter of purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u340	Here you go, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u341	Thank you very much for the first part of the answer. I agree that this species should also be preserved in our forests, but I would expect those in charge to make sure that their living space, which cannot be all that is growing in Slovenia, is limited mainly to those areas where there is no danger of meeting so often with people, with little and not least with bees. Therefore, it is possible to seek a solution in the direction that hunting families or other institutions try to distance this place where a bear may be located from these settlements. I also ask you this: Is the number currently in existence in Slovenia the optimal number or would it not be valid to reduce it? I do not mean that the number of shootings should be increased, but perhaps some country that has signed such a convention, as we have done in Slovenia, will accept generously that some of these bears should be donated to them, and they should also have such an opportunity to deal with such a problem that is increasingly pressing in Slovenia. We must by no means allow these intervention groups to go into the field or react when it is possible to meet this dangerous animal and to the tragic consequences that have been saved in the latter case, fortunately, that the result has not been worse than it was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u342	Fortunately, as you've found, these tragic events with human victims have been gone for some time, let's hope so. We regret, naturally, that all together any such close conflict that is unpleasant and certainly has consequences for everyone. As regards these measures, which are in some way part of the plan, and also what is being implemented, this preventive part of our services, where it is very alert, especially in these critical months, to the behaviour of people and to try to avoid those areas where we can approach mainly bears with young people at that time. In this work, there are also some attempts that I can quietly tell them are proactive. Attention should be paid to collecting, taking out the trash, not being a garbage disposal problem. This is where the information goes. Then also when organizing the transport of children. The prevention of rural growth has been a major problem, both in the wolf and in the bear, and the great problem has been that the border has grown and also that the circle of the area where these beasts live has increased, because unfortunately in the past, many in these areas, with difficult farming conditions, also the forest border has moved closer to the settlements. So in this part it is a difficult task to try these measures, including active ones, in some way to limit these areas which the beasts achieve, while I fear that some of the failed attempts to export our bears are also a poor journey to the future. In France, it was very interesting, and in Paris I spoke with the ambassador, but there are some experiences in this, and interest in this type is also from elsewhere, but these exports are often not the most successful or we cannot speak so that we can also regulate this type. How to adjust, whether the number is correct. I read earlier on purpose all those involved, so that everything I would say would give a very political assessment. In the round of these experts this year, this exemption adjustment of the number 74 has been identified as appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u343	Mr Janez Vasle will ask the Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u344	Good evening to all, especially to the Minister, a professional colleague of Mr Gantar, whom I am asking a question from the Members of Parliament, which has been a part of Slovenian medicine and many users of health services all the time. It is a question of homeopathy, which has been established in Europe and also worldwide in 200 years as a complementary medical branch. Homeopathy is recognised in Europe as a separate medical system or as a medical method or as a separate specialization. Part of the influential Slovenian medicine in Slovenia, however, refers to the scientific absence of homeopathy and ignores the long-standing experience of homeopathic doctors around the world, which confirms the effectiveness and effectiveness of this treatment. About 12 years ago, during Professor Kebra's ministry, homeopathy was promised to be recognised. Homeopathy, acupuncture, chiropractics and osteopathy are supposed to become part of a medical activity that can only be performed by doctors and then the proposal is lost or stuck somewhere. Homeopathy and other medicinal methods mentioned were classified under the Health Act, only acupuncture was partially classified as an official medical model as an anti-pain therapy. If a doctor in Slovenia wants to treat with homeopathy, risk losing or losing a license or not getting it if he does not already have one. This position is contrary to the European Parliament resolution, the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly resolution on non-conventional medicine. If the doctor fulfils the conditions for obtaining the licence, there is no reason not to obtain it or maintain it if he already has it. But the fact is, he has additional knowledge, and in this case, it seems to me that repression is unjustifiable. I'm offering a comparison with a professional firefighter who would be banned from burning campfire because of his profession. The Austrian Medical Chamber even has a report on complementary medicine, which recently firmly defended their homeopathic members because they were unqualifiedly attacked in the media, especially because these critics had neither medical nor homeopathic education. In Slovenia there is actually a ridiculous nonsense. As far as pharmaceuticals are concerned, homeopathy is part of health care. According to the Medicinal Products Act, homeopathic medicinal products can only be produced and issued by a master of pharmaceuticals and the doctor cannot prescribe these medicines because he must not be treated with homeopathy. By law, however, the doctor is the only authorised prescribing physician in human medicine. Absurd! A foreign doctor can use homeopathic practice with our license. I ask the Minister: Do they also think about preparing a health reform to regulate this area in the laws on medical care and health care in a more modern way, in line with European trends and savings that will not even be covered by health care? The relevant legislation will put complementary methods in the hands of doctors, not that legal natural persons such as companies, companies, institutions can do so. Thank you very much for your answer and I wish you a successful job.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u345	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u346	Dear Vice President and everyone who insists here! I'm afraid I won't be able to answer the question in a way that you'll be very pleased, because surely in all the topics that we've talked about before about health, what's ahead of us, homeopathy is not the one that's at the forefront. I think we've been talking about homeopathy since I remember working as a doctor, and probably it would be time for this issue in society as well as in health care to mature to this extent so that it can then be accepted as an integral part of the treatment. Nevertheless, I think that there is only one slightly broader consensus needed here also by health care and health care. And we have asked extended professional colleges, especially for internal and family medicine, to present some of their views on homeopathy, as well as the Medical Chamber of Slovenia. Of course, a step was taken by the adoption of the Medical Act, under this law not every doctor can deal with homeopathy, but he must decide whether he will be healthy according to medical doctrine or will perform homeopathy and therefore gain adequate knowledge. So, no one can do it. However, the adoption of this law also resulted in the fact that these medicines can be sold in pharmacies today. If there is a broader consensus that homeopathy is classified as a treatment method, of course I do not oppose it, and we prefer to include it. However, at a time when we are making a much worse or much more difficult decision, I would not force questions that will, of course, need to be resolved, but I think that is not the main point at this point. But it is in the future, given that we are trying to make people more aware that they have to take care of their own treatment, also, of course, to reduce the use of medicines when we try to promote a healthy lifestyle, homeopathy is certainly one of the ways to give them more weight in the near future. That's my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u347	Mr Ivan Hršak will ask the Minister for Infrastructure and Space Mr Zvonk Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u348	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! My question is addressed to the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Zvonk Černač, but it is related to the 3rd Development Axis. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space to ensure as soon as possible all necessary conditions, to confirm the spatial plan to determine the course of the entire route and then to build a rapid development road link north-south, so-called 3rd development axis. The 3rd development of the axis consists of the north, middle and south of the fast road and will therefore take place from Koroška via the Shaleška and Savinja Valley and via the Sava to Dolenjska and then under the Gorjanci to the White Krajina. According to the information available to us at this time, the situation is as follows: the course of the section of the north section is more or less already defined; the route of the section of the south section of the fast road is also agreed; the course of the section of the middle section of the fast road is not known here; the course of the route through Zasavje and then through Dolenjska to the White Region has not yet been determined. So I ask the Minister of Infrastructure and Space, I come from Zasavje, so I am interested in both the Zasavce and all the Zasavce: Which of the three envisaged variants of the route will be completed? Under one, the course of the route through Zasavje, this option is for us, Zasavce, of course the most optimal. Under two, the course of the route through Laško, also this option is acceptable for us, Zasavce, but of course a new road must be built before the building of the Hrastnik-Zidani bridge, through which the Zasavci in the Wall Bridge would join the rapid development road from Laško. By the way, Mr. Minister, I ask you for a concrete answer: When will the construction of this new road Hrastnik – the Wall Bridge actually begin and when is the completion of this road envisaged? Under three, the course of the Kozyanski route is completely unacceptable for us, Zasavce, and it must not come to this. My final question is: When will the so-called 3rd development axis begin? What section of the route and when is it envisaged to complete this truly large project? Thank you very much in advance for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u349	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u350	Thank you very much for that question. By the way, it was said that, as far as the northern part of this third development axis is concerned, more or less is being done. Of course it doesn't. It is a number of open questions, in particular questions in the part of the link to the existing highway connection, as well as questions regarding the continuation of the line from Velenje to Slovenj Gradc and Dravograd. So it's a long way from being determined by these things. In the coming months, however, we will intensify communication with all involved as well as the search for the optimal option in relation to transport needs and the needs or capabilities of the environment in that part. In general, the feeling in these locations after these few months is such that perhaps in the past the competent authorities have not handled things in the most optimal way. And also because of this timeframe that you see – in this particular case, the procedure started in 2004, 2005, 2006, in short, six years from the beginning, we have not even reached the point of putting a route into space. What does that mean? It means that the approach we have in existing legislation is probably not the most appropriate and will necessarily need to be changed. In this way, when something is placed somewhere, these things need to be checked, tested at some not only professional level, but also in the light of the needs, the ability of the individual environment and expectations, and see where those common intersections are, where it is possible to place the route in such a way that it causes the least problems, because the roads must eventually connect and must not separate. The initiative to prepare this core work was, as I said, given in 2006 as a complement. And as you said, the three corridors were the ones that were somehow looked for: the western via Zasavje, the central over the municipality of Laško and the eastern via Kozianska, which originated from the proposal of the local communities in this area. The study of variants was completed in spring 2008, the most appropriate option proposed was in the middle corridor. It means, from the A1 motorway across Celje, Laško, the Wall Bridge to the Sava River and forward to the New City. The proposal for the most appropriate variant is somehow adjusted according to the evaluation of the profession. The problem arises from its economic eligibility, given the traffic taking place in the area and the social acceptability of the municipality of Laško and Šmarješka Toplice in particular. These were problems that suggested that it was necessary to re-check whether these options were most optimal. Therefore, this study of variants has been repeated in terms of processing two minimum alternatives and recomparison of these with the proposed most appropriate variant of the original study of variants. The substance of these minimum alternatives is the modernisation of existing roads both from a transport and technical and functional point of view, which means the combination of new constructions at the most problematic sections, the reconstruction of existing roads with smaller investment measures and the maintenance of the existing network in the least problematic parts. Again, a study of variants was made, which was completed in 2010. The proposal for the most appropriate variants of the original variant study is also proving to be the best option in comparison with the minimum alternatives. However, this study has yet to be completed due to an incomplete environmental report. The findings of the environmental report may also affect the proposal for the most appropriate options. If I can sum it up. In view of this professional background and in view of what has been checked so far in space, the final solution to the new link between the A1 motorway and the A2 motorway is the most optimal in the central corridor. However, as to how and in what way in this central corridor, in the coming months, I estimate that in the next three months, the planning needs will be weighed, the concrete planning of the scope of this road link will be made and the proposal will be made to the Government to decide whether to continue spatial placement or whether this link is planned in the manner previously mentioned, with appropriate updates to existing infrastructure and upgrades, new upgrades where necessary. I estimate that this spatial plan could be completed somewhere this year. The beginning of construction is difficult to predict. In view of the fact that funds from the next financial perspective are also expected to benefit from this construction, I estimate that, with the acceleration of these activities, we can start in 2014.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u351	Mr. Hršak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u352	I'd only ask once the question: When will the new road Hrastnik–Zidani Bridge, which was the link to this development axis?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u353	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u354	With regard to this work, the placement is conditional on the State Spatial Plan. This State Spatial Plan concerning Hrastnik and the Wall Bridge and the deviation of the main road of Rome's Toplice-Zidani Bridge-Working is to be prepared by August of this year. All other work that follows is also planned under this heading.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u355	Mag. Ivan Vogrin will ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic, and the Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u356	Thank you very much. Once again a nice greeting in a relatively late hour! I'm sure both ministers will agree with me that it is our duty to keep our historic pearl Kobilano Lipica in excellent condition. The Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport is the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport on 24. 4. 2012 issued a provisional financing decision for the period from 1. 4. to 31. 5. 2012. Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment since 31. 3. 2012 does not provide funding for the public service of Kobilirna Lipica and does not respond to applications and letters concerning temporary financing. As a result of this, the Public Institute of Kobilarna Lipica is illiquid and is also under pressure from creditors who threaten to invest in executions. Kobalna Lipica, however, is the pride of the Slovenian state with all the attributes of excellence, so please the competent minister for clarification: When will financial obligations be fulfilled or fulfilled? I also ask for an explanation: How will funding be managed in the future so that there will be no excessive disruption in the implementation of the activities and mission of the Public Institute of Kobilarn Lipica? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u357	Minister Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u358	Thank you. My colleague Turk and I are going to share this time with each other, just like you and the Ministry share the Kobilina Lipica, for the time being. As you have already said, it is an object where, on the one hand, it protects and manages this value of our Lipicanco and, on the other hand, the environment, which is why this division from the past is between the two ministries. It is not true what has been said that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment has not responded to the recommendations or to the calls of Lipica, I can say that they have been in these contacts practically daily, but they have all come to the conclusion that there is no legal basis for funding due to the non-acceptance of the annual programme. Prior to last year, this non-exhaustive experiment was not adopted and the annual programme was not adopted and provisional funding for the first three months was therefore established. Furthermore, as a result of the provision and consolidation of finance into the financial frameworks in which we are located, the Lipice programme has to be amended. The 2012 annual programme or rebalancing for Kobilirna Lipica was then adopted – here I even have chronology written down how these documents took place – the Council of the Kobilarna Lipica Institute 6. 6. to the letter at the meeting, it is said this month, a few days ago, and is now being invested in the reception of the Government. I hope that this programme will also be able to confirm as soon as possible and then to provide ongoing funding in accordance with the possibilities and also with the frameworks covered both in the financial plan of the country and in the balance sheet or in the work programme for this year. Perhaps just a sentence, two, that during this time an interdepartmental commission was formed, which also dealt with the future and future organisation. Following a finding by the Court of Auditors, it is seeking solutions to simplify this procedure in the future and also to enable it to be financed on a regular basis, in particular by dividing the powers and responsibilities of this institution.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u359	Minister Dr. Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u360	Thank you very much. My colleague Bogovic actually said most or all of it. The core of the problems stems from the fact that the Public Institute of Kobilarna Lipica programme of work for 2012 has not been prepared in time. First, it did not take into account the deadline set out in the invitation to submit the 2012 work programme and the development of the 2012 financial plan. Ten. 2011. This call is mandatory under the Public Finance Act and under the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. Since the programme was not prepared in accordance with our ministry's call, the Ministry rejected it on 23 November 2011 and requested corrections. Since the comments were not taken into account, the Ministry rejected the partially amended programme 7. 12. In 2011, and since the corrections were not taken into account again, another 16 were rejected. 12. 2011. Finally, the Council of the Public Service considered the 2012 work programme only on 6 January this year and did not adopt it at its meeting. The 2012 work programme was not adopted by the Council of Kobilarna Lipica until 9 February 2012. Then it is true that we have been preparing the budget's rebalancing and that we have not been able to support it in this context, so the Ministry of Finance has not given its consent to the programme of this work, and the Government has not been able to confirm it. If I cut it short now. 6. 6. As the Minister has said, we have received a revised work programme based on the rebalancing, if the public agency cooperates, it shows that this can be the basis for payments and that it will be agreed by the month of June. Otherwise, in the 2012 budget balance for Kobalna Lipica is planned [[Incomprehensible]] This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u361	Mag. Vogrin, if not, is not necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u362	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u363	Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič will ask the Minister for Infrastructure and Space Mr Zvonk Černač and the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u364	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, hello again! My question concerns the field of biogas. The issue has been raised several times in connection with this problem, but let me start with a concrete problem. One of the cases of a built biogas plant is located in Pirnić, which should not be authorised. It's supposed to be built in black. According to the findings of the construction inspection, it was built contrary to the building permit issued and therefore the construction inspection issued a decision on the demolition of the building as early as January 2011. The investor was granted a building permit in December 2007, but, as has already been said, not for this facility, but for the construction of an agricultural building and a residential house, and today, according to the findings of the inspection, there is a demanding energy facility, just shoot away from the nearby houses. An application for a change in the building permit was rejected due to illegal construction and the biogas for its operation does not have an environmental protection permit. Although the biogas plant is not working at all, it is already causing a number of inconveniences. We can talk about the limited outdoor movement, the smell is unbearable, it starts with the mental and physical health of the inhabitants, which finally proves the opinion of Medvoda Medical Home. So it's questionable to put in a space, a valid building permit, release of harmful substances into the atmosphere, associated environmental degradation, and the smell in the environment. Therefore, my first question relates to this particular problem: When can we expect the completion of the construction inspection decision issued in January 2011 on the demolition of this facility? Of course, as has already been said, it is a much broader problem, so I also ask you: Who and how often exercises control over the implementation of activities in accordance with legislation and what sanctions are provided for offenders? And I'm even more interested in: What systemic changes or legislative changes do you foresee in ministries to solve the problem of biogas plants and to enable people around biogas plants to maintain an unaltered quality of life? When can we expect a regulation on the treatment of biodegradable wastes and guidelines for composting techniques to be implemented? Thank you very much for the answers in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u365	Minister Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u366	Thank you very much. First of all, from this part concerning spatial placement and building permit. Prior to the entry into force of the Spatial Planning Act in 2007, small biogas plants used for the processing of bio-waste from one farm could be placed in a farm space as an additional activity on the farm. In practice, such a provision may be good on paper in many ways or anywhere in life, but in some cases it may be understood or even misused intentionally or unintentionally. Thus, the applicable legislation, i.e. the Spatial Planning Act, provides that biogas energy facilities are to be defined as areas of energy infrastructure within the framework of the municipal spatial plan. Such facilities must also be planned outside the settlements, it is said, most often within certain economic or other zones. In a specific case, in some way it was also possible to misbehave the competent congregation. According to the information provided by my fellow workers at the Directorate for Space, this congregation was also warned several times. However, this small biogas plant has obtained a building permit for the construction of agricultural buildings, including a biogas plant. However, the investor of the facility constructed a different construction permit than that granted to him, built a demanding energy facility, so that the construction inspector issued a measure to remove the biogas plant. The investor was also granted a decision authorising enforcement to remove this facility and a decision authorising the execution of construction works. Since the debtor did not take these measures into account, a decision on the implementation of a high fine of EUR 125,000 was issued to him. However, since in a particular case the investor has a valid building permit, which, inter alia, permits the construction of a biogas plant for the purposes of the farm, he has the right to build buildings and installations determined by the building permit to follow this inspection decision in such a way that he has removed certain objects and aligned certain facilities with the building permit issued. The procedure in this particular case has not yet been completed; a finding procedure is under way whether all the conditions imposed by the inspection decision have been met. The inspector will continue the procedure in accordance with the rules. However, it must be said that the legislation in force concerning the placement of these facilities is appropriate, but it is not always possible to prevent all possible infringements of this legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u367	Minister Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u368	As regards the adoption of regulations, I can point out that two regulations are intended to be adopted. The first is a regulation on the treatment of biodegradable wastes and the second is a regulation on the protection of water against pollution by nitrates from agricultural sources. Both are expected to be adopted this autumn and are already under public scrutiny. As part of the new regulation, biodegradable waste will also provide guidance on the state of composting techniques – what you have pointed out and what we consider to be one of the major problems, and we hope that this is also part of the responses to certain disturbances, especially the smell associated with the wrong techniques. The new regulation will also give greater emphasis to ensuring the quality of the entire process of processing biodegradable waste, as well as to accurately recording and tracking all levels of raw materials, and also to where compost and digest are going. Surely all smells will not be avoided, but, as you have already correctly established, many times the problem of correct positioning, location of these objects. In the second regulation, the proper protection of water against contaminated nitrates will also be complemented by the definition of what organic fertilisers are and, in this context, what is the residue of biogas production, separately when it comes to gases from biogas plants which are bound by the implementation of the regulations governing the processing of biodegradable digestants [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u369	Dr. Black Nebula.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u370	Thank you very much. Just one more time on this particular case. So the conclusion of the construction inspections on the demolition of the facility was issued. If I understood you correctly, there are thoughts about how to adapt. And that means that this facility will remain in the environment in which it is located and continue to disturb the inhabitants. Did I understand that correctly, or was there any other solution coming up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u371	Here you go, Minister Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u372	No, Your Honor. There's no way to think about it. The inspection procedure is a rather exact procedure and I have said that the investor has a building permit for the construction of agricultural buildings, including the biogas plant, and that the problem is that this building permit, as was issued, was exceeded after the inspector carried out the inspection. That it has been carried out following the relevant decisions on the authorisation of enforcement and the decisions on the fines imposed on it by the investor to adapt it to a valid building permit and that the inspector shall carry out a finding procedure, whether that adjustment is appropriate in relation to a building permit which he has been issued or not. If this adjustment is not appropriate and is contrary to the building permit issued, the inspection procedure will continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u373	The next question will be posed by the Magus. Majda Potrat to Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport Dr. Žigi Turku.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u374	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, ministers! Slovenia is among the world's 21st countries on the Human Development Index. The city is set on three criteria: health, income on an individual and education. We're on the 30th, we're on the 31st, and after education, we're on the 4th. Therefore, from this data, which I think is very interesting, even though we can interpret a few more than 16 years of education, so much so remains in education, we can interpret this information differently, but it must also be said that, according to some other data in education, we are very well classified, say, even after a rash or after some similar information. Therefore, with the Rector of the University of Ljubljana, I can be surprised that knowledge and education in this country are not priorities. He wrote this in a recent interview. I think that any reasonable person would support the idea that, in particular in times of crisis, priorities are needed and I would expect education and research to be among the priorities. There's a lot more interesting in this interview. I'll save another quote for the second part. Mr. Minister, I have indicated that I will ask you this question: How and when will the Ministry, your ministry, in view of its commitments under the coalition agreement, reform the National Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Quality in Higher Education, in view of some other public concerns about its functioning? I remember how hard it was to achieve that we set up NAKVIS. Now, the Coalition Treaty states that we will reform the NAKVIS. We did it in the ZUJF, and I ask you, how will you reform? I know and could list from the ZUJF those articles that have reformed the NAKVIS and the responsibilities of NAKVIS, but I am still interested in how you will reform the NAKVIS, especially because you also have several changes to strategic documents in the programme of measures to promote the economy, from funding through the higher education strategy, development activities, etc. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u375	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u376	Thank you so much for asking. The fact is that the Slovenian education system is not bad, many studies confirm this. If we compare the quality of primary, secondary and tertiary education, we achieve relatively the best results in primary school, we are slightly worse in high school, and we are the worst in university education. In the last seven, eight years, the university you mentioned lost some 250 cities on a comparative scale. After the rash we are not good in a positive sense, we are very high on all scales, because very many students who sign in with us, then the study does not end. The reduction in funding for education is not drastic, it is a reduction in approximately the same framework as for some other area. You've been giving a lot of praise to Nakvis. At the first meeting with the rectors, which I had a few days after my appointment, when there was no speech about saving and these things, but as one of the things they mentioned at the time, they wanted a better NAKVIS, that a whole bunch of things, a whole bunch of program changes, a whole bunch of confirmation programs there. On their website you can see how big this stop is. You're saying you've read what we said at ZUJF about this. We included in the ZUJF exactly what the rector conference at that first meeting had warned us about. They said, "Give us greater autonomy," that is, universities, "because we can modify the study programmes ourselves so we don't have to go to an agency to ask if we can replace this subject with another subject." And we put this in the ZUJF, because this is one of the options that gives universities greater flexibility even in how programs make up, how they can combine an object, which they will benefit from when saving. And you will certainly like that we have allowed this only to universities, that we have not allowed this to public or private higher education institutions, not because universities would be public and some higher education institutions would be private, but because universities have a two-stage system of organizations, they have a Senate of universities that is above the faculty, and they can do peer reviews of these programs within their own home. Yes, there are other things about NAQVIS that we will improve. We intend to strengthen it with human resources and financial resources, particularly in order to carry out its supervisory function, but not to play as much a role as it now has in certifying or accrediting programmes. I am also a university teacher myself, and I know that teachers are able to prepare their own programmes qualitatively and also to review each other’s programmes within the same university. It is true, however, that in order to ensure quality, quality assurance, external control, evaluation, and so on, it will be necessary to actually strengthen NAKVIS. We also intend to improve the composition of the Agency's Council with autonomous experts, so that in this world there will also be room for users, including students, even for the economy. Many people in this world today have a kind of conflict of interest because they actually control the ones they came from. The Ministry does not deal with creating competition for public higher education, but rather with the creation of a general, fair, balanced framework in which an autonomous and quality higher education can be developed, which will be able to carry out its many functions, many roles, mainly due to the mission it has, this is the satisfaction of its users, and these are the students later on, and in which they will be able to work autonomously and motivatedly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u377	Mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u378	Thank you for that part of the answer. Well, it's interesting how we understand it differently. I was just talking about how hard it was to establish NAKVIS, not talking about how it works, not even to praise it. But the national agency was set up to ensure excellence in higher education. The changes in the ZUJF you are talking about only touch on programme changes, so if I quote correctly, "amendment of mandatory components of the study programmes of independent higher education institutions". There is no mention of changes in the ULJF on the participation of foreign teachers in the study process. What bothers me is that without a particularly in-depth discussion, it has indeed been changed in a law that has financial implications, not a law that would really talk about changes in higher education. With regard to the question that I am asking you and that you have already started to answer in part when you were talking about creating competition, because you did not miss the fact that I also asked you twice about the establishment of new universities, it is interesting that accreditation must be given to the programmes and to the university by the NAKVIZ. And it says here in Article 14, what are the conditions for the establishment of a university. And what is asked me as a question, so I ask you, in the time of the dry cows, when you cut up funds for higher education, you can't avoid the creation of a new university because you're indistinguishable in your answers. But the fact is, as Dr. Peyovnik said, it takes about 20 years for the university and a lot of resources. I don't know where we're gonna get the funding to set up a new university. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u379	Dr. Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u380	Thank you very much. I hope that the changes that are in the ZUJF with regard to amendments to the mandatory content of the study programmes do not affect in any way how difficult or how it is possible to establish a university. What a new university I've been hearing about lately, Mrs. Potter, only you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u381	Mag. Spending, anything else? [[No, no, ……]] Mrs Saša Kos will ask the question of the Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u382	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Nice greetings again to all present! Mr Minister, in the first months of your term of office, you have repeatedly threatened the self-employed in culture: by banning the conclusion of copyright contracts, by calling for free participation of artists at state celebrations. On 1 June, a public debate was concluded on the Proposal for a Amendment to the Regulation on only cultural workers, which provides for the tightening of the conditions for obtaining the right to payment of contributions, for social insurance from the State budget. Of the 2 000 450 self-employed in culture, they are eligible to pay thousands of 400 contributions. However, changes in the regulation seriously endanger the existence of many of them. There have been many comments on the advanced new solutions regarding the right to contribute, as they are intended to be too harsh and unfair. But above all, you didn't write them in cooperation with the expert. According to the expert associations, amendments to the Regulation do not take into account the specifics of each profession. For some creators, the loss of the right to pay contributions would mean that they would most likely have to abolish the status, as they themselves will not be able to pay their own contributions on the basis of low fees and will agree to the employment agency. Is that what you want, Mr. Secretary? You were also invited by the members of the National Council for Culture to postpone the amendment of the Regulation. At the conclusion of the public hearing, I therefore ask you: Do you intend to take into account the comments and warnings of civil society and professional associations when preparing the final text of the Regulation on self-employed persons in culture? Wouldn't you rather, as you are advised in the National Council for Culture, join in the preparation of an independent expert analysis on the social, economic and legal situation of self-employed people in culture and, on the basis of this, adopt systemic solutions to their status as part of the necessary modernisation of the public sector in culture? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u383	Dr. Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u384	Thank you very much. I've had a very similar question today. One information is, let's say, this, in 2001, for these self-employed people in culture, for their social security, we gave 2 million 200 000 euros, in 2010, about 5 million and a half, we probably can't afford to grow this number in this dynamic. I understand that many people do not like change because they are certainly among those who are being paid for it, those who will lose it, and certainly among those who do not yet receive it, are those who are now likely to receive it under new criteria. The criteria take into account excellence, are more appropriate, give less room for interpretation. I also heard in these conversations a lot of expertise that said, yes, yes, of course it needs to be taken away, this group, they don't deserve, they're actually on the market, they're serving big money with something else, but they don't take it. And some other profession said something else. In fact, these issues are difficult. I have full confidence in the department's expertise. When you say profession, you think or you call those who are going to be taken from this status are called professions. At the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport there are a lot of professions in all fields, in the field of education there are doctors of science, in the field of culture there are cultural workers and doctors of science, in the field of sport, that I am not talking about higher education and science itself. The profession is also in the ministries, and this section prepares the amended rules in cooperation and in consultation with a number of people. I believe that those who lose their status are trying to keep it for as long as possible, even by proposing to do another, second, third or other study. I am sure that for the size class, the number of these contributions or the people paid for these contributions will not decrease, but it will continue to grow.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u385	Mrs. Kos, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u386	In part, you have answered my question, but I must say that there is a lot of deviation from what you have said, or I suppose that the quality of the work of individual artists in various fields will be seriously compromised, because the essence of all of this is that young creators who depend on this benefit will rather decide on inquality translations or will be threatened with quality. And I can't agree with that answer of yours completely. Mr Minister, when presenting the Minister's nomination on the parliamentary committee, you said that it was important to subsidise creation and investment in creators as well as to revive the non-public institutional culture. Culture, you said at the time, is not only what is in public institutions, but also a lot of individuals and NGOs are involved in culture, where production may be even more economical than elsewhere where we get more money. These are the self-employed in culture, Mr Minister, and in the view of many, the changes will be the most affected, as I have already said, by young people entering an uncertain area of creativity. Mr Minister, instead of encouraging creativity, I believe that – which is essential for the welfare of the State – you are homing it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u387	Here you go, Dr. Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u388	Well, of course I have to protest that. If some policy on how to pay for contributions and insurance for self-employed people in culture is improved, then of course this is not a loss of culture and a misunderstanding of why culture is important and why not. You know, we're on it. Many young people who, for example, are engaged in research that deals with innovations that deal with charity that deal with, say, social care, might find someone in health care, in what field of engineering, a number of things work very important, and of course it would be right and right, and it would be great for the state to finance at least pension, health and all the rest of insurance, but a large majority of these things, however, guarantee from its work, so we need to be relatively precise on those exceptions. That's what we're trying to do. In terms of the reform of the conditions of operation and of the institutional framework of culture, which relates mainly to public institutions and also to the way public institutions cooperate with non-profit culture, we are, of course, continuing with the work of the project group in this area. Its aim is not to create some new crowd of people who work in culture and who are not capable of doing what they do, to earn at least health and pension insurance, but rather to create conditions for them to be able to work realistically and fully for wages or fees in public institutions or civil society organisations. And if you've already asked about the author's fees. Many public institutions have only been aware of who is really following their program at the time of this temporary suspension of the payment of copyright fees. Whether it's the ones on the copyright fees or it's the ones who get personal income. This was the good side of this measure, which was saved in the ZUJF, and the authors' fees continue to flow.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u389	Mr Jožef Kavticnik will ask the Minister of Infrastructure and Space Mr Zvonko Černač a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u390	Thank you so much for saying that. What is happening with the biggest and most expensive investment, what TES 6 certainly is, is the extremely irresponsible, unacceptable and inappropriate behaviour of the government and also of you, Mr. Minister, who has taken over this resort. As Member of Positive Slovenia and Šalečan, I am bitter about this work. I'll explain why. For over 100 days, you've been the minister of this government, and you haven't taken a minute to look at this construction site, the largest construction site, not only did you see it, but you haven't gotten any opinion from any of the responsible people who run this investment. The government owns 100 % of HSE and HSE owns TES, which means that the government is responsible for this investment. Of course, you sent a request or 5 points to those responsible in TES. And all that Mr Šircelj is asking today is already being answered in these answers, so everything else that is being done is extremely harmful for the country and great mismanagement. The responsibility for the construction of TES 6 was accepted already in 2004. And since then, all the relevant consensus has been obtained, and plans have been confirmed that have enabled the construction to begin. I've had a chronological review of the construction, and since 2004, there's been an investment. It says here who was all in the control councils, even Mr Franz Bogovich sitting here, and if you wanted any information, and if you were to communicate well in the government, you could also get from him that I'm not talking about mags. Andre Visiak, about your Secretary of State Dr. Andre Shalamun and so on. There's always been contact with investors from the government. Therefore, it is extremely irresponsible to say that the government does not know how the investment took place. That's why I'm asking you: Is the Government and you, Minister, TES 6 still of strategic importance? When and how do you plan to complete your investment? 17. is the deadline for the government to issue a loan guarantee. So far, over 600 million have been spent on construction. The entire delay of this construction or marriage will cost the country between €50 million and €100 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u391	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u392	Thank you very much for that question. Although I have to say that in a certain part, the biggest part, I'm not the right cover for answers. In the part where you ask me what I intend to do, this investment will be completed within the deadline. I, as Minister, intend to do what I intend to do, honourable Member, to who leads the investment. If I am not mistaken, there is a guarantee law in the National Assembly, which has been tabled by one of the members of the Social Democrats, concerning which is the government, which has been established 10. 2. or she took an oath at that time, 13 days after the constitution, 23. 2. very seriously and responsibly adopted the opinion on this guarantee law. And in the context of this opinion, she has made it very clear and unequivocally that she is willing to take additional risks in the form of taking over the Republic of Slovenia guarantee if the 5 conditions mentioned are met. And to this day, two have not yet been fulfilled, essential. Tell me, honourable Member, do you have any idea how much editing is going to take on this project? Whether this will be €92 million, as the NIP4 suggests, will be €120 million, whether it will be €145, or € 160, or even €180 million. Today, I receive an electronic message that shows that even those who run this project still do not know what the final price of editing will be. And it would be irresponsible of me, as minister, to go on one side on trips to Šostjanj, which will do nothing to help, and on the other hand to come before this high assembly to discuss the law and speak to you, support the law, without having all the information about the possible risks this guarantee poses. For the guarantee became important only when the investment had increased substantially. As long as this investment was worth 600 million and then 750 million euros, there was no need for a state guarantee until then. All tranches could take place without State guarantee. Only at a time when these values had increased and when there was a need to provide significantly more funds than originally planned did the European Investment Bank require the State guarantee for these loans. At the April meeting of the National Assembly, when this guarantee law, tabled by Member Srečko Meh, was discussed, I said clearly and unequivocally that, before the second or third reading of this law, the Government expected very clear and exact answers to all the open questions and also to the conditions set out in the decision of 23 February. These conditions have not been met to date and for the responsible decision of Members and Members and for the responsibility you will take – not me, the National Assembly, the whole country will take this responsibility in the end – it is right that these things are clear, unequivocal. And if these procedures, which are now under way, mean that in the end there will only be a reduction in value, in which no one believed two months ago, then the purpose of the decision-making in the government is achieved. On the other hand, the objective of this investment is not to be driven more rationally and more cost-effectively. As a result, I have said many times that we are at a point where we can no longer decide on some good solutions and decisions, we are at a point where we can only decide whether this project will be cheaper or more expensive. And to the best of my ability, both the government and I personally do not believe that in the last days, we have been working in this direction. However, there is no way that I can take responsibility for decisions that I have no influence over and that I have no power to influence. And interestingly, today, when we've heard so much about this frame, how things are going on, look here, when it comes to the problem, the government should take responsibility even though it has no effect on those people who run these projects. We will take full responsibility where we can have this influence as we have in this term in these few months in the case of the Housing Fund, which was exposed when the previous government, Mrs Bratušek, sat in the supervisory council, was unable to resolve the former director, and this government has – the club by saying publicly that it is a customer’s sympathizer – because it has not acted economically and rationally. This will be done in the future and in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u393	Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u394	Thank you very much. Yes, because the guarantee law would not have been filed if the government had given the guarantee in due time or had said itself to take responsibility because it is the owner. You're asking me what I know, whether I know about certain prices and so on, because it's not serious that now the minister will ask me. It is this, Mr Minister, that, for example, in newspapers, I have also read that in the SDS and other parties in the coalition during the night, they have changed their minds because they want to open a space of 1.3 billion euros for their members and supporters. You know, we know about the cost of the project, a billion 300,000 euros, that's what's guaranteed. The investment of the installation is discussed or you are told exactly that it is 130 million and, of course, arrangements are still under way with Alstom to reduce these costs. That's what you knew, and you know it. The Supervisory Board is the one – and the Supervisory Board is appointed by the Government – which, of course, monitors the investment and the investment programme has been adopted in such a way that it is only a delusion that the Government did not know what the investment was like and what the investment programme was like. That's why I'm asking you: Will you call on the responsibility of the people who, following the government’s mandate, monitored the investment and failed to do their work satisfactorily? Is it true that the President of the Government ordered you to arrange everything necessary for companies close to SDS to acquire a business as subcontractors in TES 6? Of course, it's in the papers, and that's not my guess.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u395	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u396	Thank you very much. It is a late hour, honourable Member, but I suppose we are all still quite reasonable and reasonable here, and we can communicate in this way. First of all, you said that it would not be necessary to make a law on the part of the MP if the government took a decision on this in due time. How? When this guarantee law was introduced by Mr Meh, the current government has not been established at all since we had no government. We didn't have a government or maybe you were thinking about the government leaving, Mr. Pahor. The government was very serious about this problem in the shortest possible time, I told you about the timeline earlier, and I also took this issue seriously in 13 days. And you denied yourself when you said earlier that all the conditions, all 5 of them fulfilled, then you said in one part that the agreements with the biggest supplier were still in place. So, are these conditions really met? Do we really know what the final value of this project is now, because we are not talking about 100,000 euros or 50,000 euros, we are talking about a billion 300 million euros, a billion 300 million euros, and it seems to us that this value will be lower by 20 million or 30 million euros, that it is irrelevant. I think that this is a huge resource, and I believe that Members and Members want to know very carefully how and how these conclusions, which have been proposed, have been fulfilled. A third of this National Assembly is also represented by members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. You are enough in all other parliamentary groups to confirm this guarantee. It is not a problem of one parliamentary group, but I think it is a project where all data and awareness and responsibility must be taken quite widely on the table. Without that, such a law cannot be decided. These fillings about how we want to give a business to some structure around SDS or something like that, I've denied that many times, that's, excuse me, stupidity, so much more because there's nothing left to give. Most of it's already signed! However, something else is true – every day I receive new information, in addition to those I have received in the past months, that a number of Slovenian contractors are qualified, qualified, who offered a lower price for doing a certain job on this project, was forced to enter into business with a foreign supplier or contractor who offered this part at a higher price. That's interesting. There's another commission down there. No one on the other side wonders that. To conclude, the ultimate responsibility is, of course, at the management of TES and Holding of Slovenian Power Plants. I am convinced that these responsibilities are aware that these negotiations will be concluded and that you will be able to decide [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u397	Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u398	Thank you very much. Following Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like a general discussion to take place. That is precisely why, Mr Minister, you yourself have said how many heads there are, how much more you should know, or how much what we should know is right to have a general debate on this biggest investment that we are making in the country. If you've already led any investment, and I'm sure you've led it, you know it's always possible to change the price by the end of the day with the contractor and it's always possible to make a deal. How it would not be possible to discuss this project and the cost reduction of individual costs in this project is certain. However, it would be right and right, and it would also be responsible for the Government to be aware that it owns this largest facility. That the Government is responsible as they are in the TES, as are those who directly exercise responsibility. However, you are responsible to obtain all the information to review how the investment takes place and, of course, to take appropriate action. That's all I said. It has been said that you do not take responsibility for this responsibility to the National Assembly. Of course, it was an opportunity, Mr Minister, for the Government to say, at the time of the introduction of the law, and this law would also withdraw, that the Government would seriously make a guarantee to seriously consider that this investment is being driven in the way that investment must be driven. However, there was no such signal from the Government and you, Sir Secretary, were. That is why this marriage was an extreme day in the National Assembly. That's why I'm sure this [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u399	Mr. Kavtičnik, please focus on [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u400	That's all I said. That's all I said, and I just want to explain why I want public debate in the National Assembly. These are all the conditions that prove, as you yourself have said, that it is right that the public debate is being held to pour pure wine on us, that we Members know that the public knows what these funds are going to do, that is, a billion 300 million euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u401	On the proposal by Mr Jožef Kavtičnik to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure and the space to his question of the mission, the State Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 12. 6. 2012, in the framework of the votes. Ms Alenka Pavlič will ask the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u402	Dear Minister Turk. You and your government are saving our children's lives. Schools that are public institutions are not safe and endanger everything — students, students, students, teachers, and teachers. You wanted to cut off even more of the funds without any research on what this would mean for the citizens and the development of this country. If you remember the May 29th earthquake in Italy, when almost 30 people died, then you know that we felt these suns too. There's been a lot of panic and confusion. Because of the earthquake and fear of the worst, they evacuated 3,000 students and employees from the Faculty of Philosophy and 750 students and employees at the Jesenice High School. I went to Jesenica High School myself and made sure that the school was in a catastrophic state. I hope the earthquake doesn't happen before this school is rebuilt, because the worst can happen. I believe that there are a lot of worse and worse schools in Slovenia, so we must immediately start with the most urgent parts to protect our children and employees. I am pleased, however, that you are not a sociologist, because, as you say, there are too many of these, but you are a builder and you will know this area better than I do. I believe that you must take school renewal very seriously as a priority in your mandate. I want to know: Have you personally looked at any of these schools that have been presented in the media? By the way, the situation is catastrophic. I want to know: When are you gonna start rebuilding these schools? Not only are they alarmingly dangerous, but they are also energy-stricken and absolutely uninteresting for students who are educated in low-income jobs, as we always listen to how certain professions are lacking. You can't solve this problem by shutting down schools.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u403	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u404	Yes, thank you very much. Maybe one builder had to come to this position to start dealing with this problem because schools are not working for two, three years, schools were built 50 years ago, some 100 years ago. What regulations were laid down in those days when schools were being built, and this also in some way determines their earthquake resistance. I congratulate you on your visit to a school that you visited, and as a layman, you may find that it is in a catastrophic state and that the earthquake is very dangerous. In 2004, the government commissioned the ZRMK Construction Institute to conduct a study on the earthquake vulnerability of school facilities in Slovenia. She made a relatively long list of schools that are more or less at risk. This list is long, was made in 2004 and has not actually happened much to date. The earthquake has this bad quality – I have good colleagues who are very busy with it – that we will forget about it in a few months. If it doesn't shake for a while, let's forget there can ever be an earthquake. If it doesn't shake for a while, let's forget that we have, say, some major shopping malls in Ljubljana in buildings, in halls that were computerized designed for warehouses, and if warehouses fail, things are designed in a much smaller standard. So I totally agree with you. In the next European financial perspective, we need to anticipate concrete resources for this purpose and take this list step by step. Something is being done on this topic, 61 projects for the earthquake rehabilitation of school facilities worth EUR 161 million, with the expected share of the Republic of Slovenia in the amount of EUR 66 million, have been announced by the municipalities. Following a decision on the election made by the previous government, 10 projects with a total share were financed, about €13 million, and the co-financing of the selected projects is extended until 2016. As I say, this event and these earthquakes remind us all of what it would be like to act. The rehabilitation of many buildings in Slovenia over the past few years has not only been too slow in the last three months and not only because of this rebalancing, and I hope that there will be no need to keep the ground shaking, that energy or the desire to keep doing something in this area. When a financial perspective was planned, in which there was actually a great deal of investment in energy recovery, we were investing in energy recovery, not so much in static sanitation. And from a longer-term perspective, that wasn't the wisest thing to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u405	Here you go, Mrs. Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u406	Mr. Secretary, I would like to warn you that you are, in addition to being a builder, also a minister of culture. Culture also includes bonton. We have been watching you all day, hiding with your hands, interfering with your calls and disturbing the opposition MPs, and in particular, you are very far from responding to the Members. I think it would be right for you to take the bonton back into your hands. Now, given that you have skilfully avoided the question of Comrade Komel, I repeat the question because you have not answered. Have you granted funds to the private Faculty of FUDŠ at the invitation of your Ministry to publish surveys that are now 100 % designed to your advantage? It smells like corruption and customerism on your part. Please explain today's FUDŠ survey and the allocation of funds to this private college.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u407	Dr. Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u408	Thank you very much. I was hoping that in this high choir we weren't just here to read what everyone has to say in their own way, but that we could act like people, sometimes laugh at things, if they're funny, if they're happy that we sometimes wave over the table, even at such a late hour. In short, it's like we're a little more relaxed. Of course, you have to stick to the bonton. I don't think I've hurt anyone. Rules of procedure should also be followed. Of course, the Rules of Procedure provide that you ask a question. Then ask the question. You're not questioning me about the earthquake rehabilitation of schools, but you're asking me a question about the Faculty of Applied and Social Studies, because you don't think I've told you enough about the fact that this invitation was completely clear. He was completely clean. The survey you're talking about, I didn't read it. If I'm going to explain this to you, a little laugh, please don't mind me, but your attempts in the direction of this story around FUDSH, I'm going to say, some political mileage, they just seem fun.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u409	Thank you. Mr Bevk alone will ask the Minister of Infrastructure and Space Mr Zvonko Černač a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u410	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! At 23 p.m., I have not yet asked any question from the Member of Parliament. And I promise you this is the first time and the last time. On Friday, I announced to the Minister of Infrastructure and Space Zvonku Černač the question of the implementation of projects under the fourth development axis between 2012 and the end of 2015, and when the construction of the Polish or Skopheloski Oblast will continue. I'm especially interested in: What projects have remained in the programme of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads and the country's development plans until 2015, according to the 2012 state budget balance? Unfortunately, it is not clear from the rebalancing which projects are left in the programme and which ones are not, since Members and Members have only received a budget divided into sub-programmes and not into individual budget lines. I am therefore interested in the reconstruction of the sections of Bach-Dolenja Trebush and Dolenje Trebush-Jellin, which are among the EU projects on the priority list, of Tolmin, Lower Idrija, Godovic and Hotedršica. On the Idrija-logic foot of the fourth development axis is also the project of modernisation of Lower Idrija-Marof, which is expected to be in the process of obtaining project documentation. On the Church-Polish part of the fourth development axis, however, I am interested in whether, or when not, funds will be reserved for the construction of an idea project for the construction of a road connection between Cerknim and Gorenje village, and in particular what is the timetable for the continuation of the construction of the Polish or bishoply carriageway. However, the latter issue was already a question put by fellow Member Irena Tavčar today. If the Minister feels that there is anything else to be added to his previous reply on this subject, he can now take advantage of it. I would like to thank Minister Chernač for his reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u411	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u412	Thank you very much for that question. Projects mentioned include Gorenje Vas Oblast, reconstruction of the Bača-Dolenja Trebuša road, reconstruction of the Dolenje Trebuša-Želin road and everyone else are still in the plans, long-term plans of development programmes under the fourth development axis or under projects under the fourth development axis. However, it should be understood that in the next period, in particular in the period 2013 and 2014, in view of the acute situation, the dynamics of all projects so far being undertaken will need to be thoroughly checked and an amendment or amendment made in accordance with the envisaged funds for the next financial perspective period 2014-2020. The priority that binds us all together and about which you have asked a question, namely the Polish bypass of Škofja Loka, is a project that will unfortunately not be carried out according to the dynamics outlined – I have already said this today in response to a similar question – for two reasons. In one part, the project was stopped due to the cancellation of the building permit. Activities are undertaken to replace or re-acquire this building permit. And in the second part, in this more important part, due to the bankruptcy of the contractor. Jobs are stalled, a new call for proposals will be required. Despite all the options we have at our disposal, and despite the best use of human resources, we estimate that the completion of this project will be postponed for six months and a half, depending on the expected construction dynamics. An additional difficulty in implementation is also the fact that it is a work that will probably not be qualified to take over any of the domestic construction companies that are still liquidly capable of taking over the construction market. And it will also have to be calculated in the context of this process with the possibility that the funds originally planned, in view of all these changes, will probably not be sufficient to complete this project. Nevertheless, the construction of the Polish bypass remains a priority, so that in the framework of the Slovenian Directorate for Roads, we will do everything we can to ensure that these works continue as soon as possible and that this delay will be minimised by the expected dynamics and the expected timetable. With regard to other projects under the fourth development axis, however, this is part of the answer to the question where I spoke about the need for modernisation and upgrading of the state road network in the Republic of Slovenia, where we are planning this year a kind of national programme for the period until 2020, where we want to present a fairly accurate timetable and also financial resources for the implementation of the necessary and planned projects. Of course, we also rely heavily on the European Union's resources, because all the projects planned will not be possible without these funds, and not with the assistance of these funds in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u413	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, a request to complete the response. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u414	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! I thank the Minister for his reply, and I would like to repeat in particular the reply he has already given to my colleague, Mrs Tavčar, earlier this afternoon. Of course, I'd like a slightly more precise answer. Perhaps the oral form of the question is not the most appropriate for such types of answers, as the budget balance and development plans for 2012-2015 are more precisely developed in the Directorate and I would therefore be interested in: What actual items will be implemented this year and in the next few years? That is why, Mr Minister, if we could also provide an answer in writing so that these specific items of the Member and Members, probably of any other interest, could be obtained on the table, because, as we say, from the balance published on our website, we cannot see all these specific items, because the rebalances or accounts have been only sub-programmes for a few years, but we cannot see deeper into the intestines of the budget, only officials at the Ministry, or at the Slovenian Directorate for Roads. I'm also interested in: Has the Directorate already ordered the development of an idea project for the Cerkno-Gorenja route to start working on those two largest projects co-financed by European funds, which is at the section from Želenen to Soča Bridge almost 20 kilometers away? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u415	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u416	Thank you very much. Given the financial capacity of the budget in 2012, there was a delay in the implementation of activities on a number of projects, including those mentioned under the fourth development axis. By providing you with accurate cuts and accurate data on individual projects in writing. We continue our activities wherever they have been in the past and wherever the implementation is related to the use of funds from this financial perspective.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u417	Thank you. Mrs Tamara Vont will ask the absent Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs mag. Andrei Vissiak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u418	Thank you very much. I insisted only because I thought the darkness was very important. Today, it has already been widely reported on television, and we have been able to read something in newspapers and, above all, in the report of the Interdepartmental Commission, I think it is not yet in the current government reference, but in the 2011 report it is possible to spot the trend of trafficking in human beings, namely, Slovenia is a target and transit country in this case. In recent years, there has been a trend of growth, even to say ugly words, imports of dancers or artists or whatever we can call it from the Dominican Republic. These girls have all the necessary work permits, all the necessary documentation, which, of course, makes it reasonable to assume that this is a well-organised group that obviously has very good connections both in our administrative units and in employment institutions. I am afraid that even higher, as we have heard on television today, even from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, this is an extremely organised group that reaches the very top of state institutions. This is extremely worrying that our country is also referred to in Brussels as the 'Slovenian path', which comes each year, year after year, and I think this number is quite substantial, talking about 400 per year girls from the Dominican Republic, who are then somehow sent out to say, to different nightclubs. So it's about prostitution under the cover of dancing with all the elements of exploitation, which, of course, is also an integral part of human trafficking. I want to know: What are we going to do about it? I would like a rather comprehensive explanation from the Minister: What has he done or done? Apparently, things have been dragging around for a while, and everyone's been quiet about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u419	Thank you. You will receive a written reply within 30 days. Do you want your lips?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u420	I want a mouthful, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u421	Okay, well, then, in the next session. The next question will be asked by the mag. Mr Borut Ambrožič, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u422	Thank you for your word, President. The Honourable Minister. At a time when Slovenian consumers, as well as competent inspection services, rightly ask themselves whether domestic offers are really domestic, the protected designation of the origin of each product becomes an important issue at several levels. As we know, it means a protected designation of origin that all stages of agricultural production and processing must take place in a specific geographical area. If you don't mind, I'll use this time to get back to history. It is likely that those who follow it will be interested at this late hour, because I am talking about the Kranj sausage, whose name comes from the time of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy in the early 19th century. The name of the product Kranjska sausage contains a completely defined geographical definition, which has been represented in the Slovenian national territory since the 15th century by the central historical land, which has been the only country in Slovenia. That is why the term Kranjec was sometimes another name for Slovenian. Slovenia, which already has 11 protected Slovenian products in the European Union, namely Sir Tolminc, Extra Virgin Olive Oil of the Slovenian Istria,Nanoski Sir, Kočevski forest honey, Prleško tænko, Zgornjesavinj želodec, Šebreljski Želodec, Ptujjski lk, Belokranjska potača, Idrija Žlikrofe and Prekmurskognica, now wishes to protect Kranjska klobasa. In November 2005, the GIZ of the meat industry of Slovenia started a procedure to protect the Kranjska sausage with a geographical indication. Slovenia, which also wants to register Kranjska klobasa as a protected designation of origin, has recently stepped on the path of opposition in Austria, because it is also used in them. Minister, that's why I'm asking: What steps has the Ministry of the Interior, that is, its own, already done, and which procedures regarding the protection of the designation of origin of the Kranjska sausage will be successful? I thank you in advance for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u423	Thanks, mag. Ambrožich. On that count, at this late hour, we all got hungry. I give my word to the Minister for Response.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u424	All I needed was a question of protected wine, like a drill that goes with it, and it would all come together nicely. As far as the darkness is concerned, it's filling the space well, which may not be too bad lately. You have already mentioned that this historical work, which is also part of this protection and is also very well founded, is also beautifully written in the book by Dr. John Bogotaj, also one of my gifts to Mr. Berlakovich, so that we can discuss this in a very practical way. But let me continue where you've already started. In 2005, GIZ gave the Kranjska sausage an initiative for geographical indication. In 2008, this procedure also ran to the end and was also protected by a national geographical indication at the Ministry where these protections are being carried out. The Ministry then forwarded the application for Kranjska sausage in March 2009 to the European Commission for Registration of Kranjska sausage at EU level. We have received this role in addition and it has been further substantiated by all historical facts. It was necessary to link the product of Kranjska sausage to the area of production, it is said, with Slovenia. In this part, colleagues at the Ministry and GIZ Kranjska sausage were successful, so he was 18. 8. 2000 has been published and is until 18. 8. the possibility of objecting to this document by those affected by this designation. It is said that this part has already been established and the public has also announced an objection. More than that is yet to be done, from this prediction. At that time, we were informed by the Austrian side, the Minister, and he also mentioned that this matter had opened up to them as a particular problem. Then I myself agreed that at the edge of the aquaculture conference in Salzburg we would also discuss the subject. Minister Berlakovich made it very clear that some of their sausage producers have reservations about this particular issue. It must be said, however, that the person who lodges a complaint may be a State or a producer from any other country, so that this is not a process that can be controlled in any way, but is until the 18 August deadline that these complaints may take place. As far as the relationship between Slovenia and Austria or at the official level of ministries is concerned, the agreement in Salzburg at that time was such that the expert group would discuss what was essentially what was disturbing and what expectations were. For if there is a complaint at this level, a certain compromise should also be sought. Two meetings have been held so far in the form of video conferences, on 23 May and 6 June. 25. 5. Austria sent its views on Austrian products, where the word Krainer is used. Thus, Austria has warned and expressed certain expectations in five products, namely Käsekrainer – this famous Danish sausage, which is also most problematic if we are very exposed, and it also tanges them most – then Krainer Wurst, is called Kranj sausage and then Östern Krainer, Schweine Krainer, Bauern Krainer. Austria has proposed in this part to allow the use of these names in products and not to translate them into our language in any way on their part. I must say that the use of all other things, flags and the like, is supposed to be limited. Certain positions are being prepared by GIZ, mainly for products of Käsekrainer [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u425	Mr. Minister, if we continue a little further, I would almost warn you that the official language in the National Assembly is Slovenian. Here's the request to complete the answer, mag. Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u426	I won't be long. We'd just like to thank the Minister. This is the answer I expected, and I am also sure that if not, but I will certainly remind him every so long that he will pursue the interests of Slovenian producers. It may not go so far as to implement it, but to serve in the National Assembly, it is sad that we do not know our interests or care in the temple of democracy in which we are present, better said in a parliamentary restaurant, where, according to the information obtained, I was surprised that we cannot find the original end sausage on the menu, because of the reasons for public procurement, which are extremely complicated and are following, of course, the lowest price, not the quality and the Slovenian original products, so that I sincerely hope that this will change in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u427	Okay, this is what our secretary-general is going to take note of, although I think she's doing her best to take care of the offer. Thank you. The next question will be raised by Mrs Tina Komel, Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u428	Spettabile Signor Minister! Dear Minister of Education, Mr. Giga Turk! Education in National Mixed Areas in Slovenia is an integral part of the education and education system in Slovenia. Since Slovenia strongly advocates the rights of our ethnic minorities abroad, it is also right that we take care of indigenous ethnic minorities in Slovenia. The established part of education and education is the basis for achieving the equal position of Italian nationality, its language and culture. As Members of the Italian minority and at the same time members of the Italian minority, I am particularly concerned with the problem of the educational institution in Cyprus, where I have also been educated. The building in which instruction is provided for members of a minority, both for primary and secondary education, is protected by monumental protection. This is the 450-year-old building of the Collegio dei nobili in the strict center of the city, where there is also a very valuable museum collection, which has a particular historical value. No one has invested in this facility for 35 years, so the school is urgently in need of renovation. In particular, I would like to point out that it is the school that is one of the foundations for the realization and preservation of the minority and its identity. The right to rights, however, is a constitutional right and a sign of a high civilisation of the rule of law. In this composition, we also have a minority Member, whom I have not yet heard from the Government and the Minister, despite the reduction of funds and the deterioration of the situation for the Italian minority, to require the basic conditions for their work. The Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr. Žigo Turk, I therefore ask: Quanto avete l'intense di rinnovare le scuole della minoranza del littorale slovakia, che col passare degli anni necessitano di urgente restazione? When do you intend to renovate long-term and dangerous schools with Italian learning language? Do you not feel that this attitude towards the Italian minority will also have inter-neighbourly consequences for our minorities abroad? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u429	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u430	Thank you for that question. Unfortunately, my Italian is too weak to be able to answer without a mistake, so forgive me if I stay in Slovenian. Maybe you're doing Mr. Battelli some wrongs anyway. He asked very quickly for a meeting with me, we met on 2 March and both problems, as well as the problem of the secondary or vocational school centre in Izola, he mentioned to me as a neurological point of Italian minority education in our country. Some time later, I also met with a respected Member of Hungarian nationality, and even when we had a visit to Prekmurje, I met with that issue. Mr Battelli first reminded me of the problem of the primary school or branch school in Sečovje. We are immediately, so this meeting was held on 2 March, on 19 March, at this school, the representatives of the municipality, the school, the designers, the people of our ministry, and there we found that the rehabilitation of that stone building of the existing building was not meaningful and it was agreed that the municipality should approach the new construction project in the same dimensions and identical to the existing building. On 15 May, we received new documentation from the Ministry, called PGD, architecture, signature of part of the DIP, the estimated investment value of this project is EUR 431 000. The first assessment shows that the project is designed to be considered as a basis for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's proposal to be included in the National Budget NRP. However, we do not have additional resources for the intervention inclusion of this or any other project in the 2012 balance sheet at the Ministry. However, there is one good thing about how the investment rebalancing is prepared, namely that a number of funds from individual funds, European funds from reserved ministries, has moved to the Ministry of Finance and can be more flexible with that money, so that we will examine which of these projects may not be able to make any other investment in school infrastructure in cases where colleagues in other areas, such as the construction of another track or some road infrastructure, will not be able to use their projects. For the school in the old town centre in Cyprus, concerning which you are asking, the invitation was made in 2008. The project was included in the selection of projects for funding. However, coordination of documentation is very difficult because it is a monumentally demanding facility in the old city centre, as you yourself said. There is also a need to provide funding from several budgetary sources, since the difference is whether it is primary or secondary education. Since the funds in all investment projects of our ministry have been limited to those projects already under way, the continuation of these activities is also the same as I said – if there are remaining funds in other cases, we will arrange this. I must say that these meetings with minorities were very useful at the beginning of March. We have been alerted to various aspects of minority education. At that time, we assured them that no austerity measures that were being prepared at the time, including those relating to the group's size standards, would be applied to the same mechanism in minorities, in short, so that nothing could be changed for a minority due to savings. We have also held onto this and would be happy to see such results on the other side of Italy, where I spoke with the Slovenian minority in Chad and where there are some differences between before and the austerity measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u431	The last question so far is record-breaking, I think, so informed, a record series of questions sent, Mr Franz Jurša will ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u432	President, thank you for your word. Some of them are persistent. Mr Minister, if I should have known last week that I would have to ask this question almost before midnight, believe me, I would not have done it. But the question in question concerns the restructuring of the sugar industry. The Republic of Slovenia is based on Council Regulation No. 320, of 20 February 2006, on the establishment of a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry in the Community, the European Union has undertaken the following specific restructuring obligations: the implementation of the social programme, the removal of all sugar production facilities other than silos and packages, provided that the restructuring plan remains active, ecological recovery and business. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment or the Agency for Agricultural Markets of the Republic of Slovenia supervises the implementation and ecological rehabilitation. The restructuring programme is expected to be completed in accordance with the timetable in March of this year. I ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment: Has the programme been completed in that scheme within the planned period of March 2012, as planned? I'm also interested in: Has the business plan on alternative culture and other activities in the field of the Ormož Sugar Factory been organised as provided for in the restructuring programme? I also ask you: As a result of Slovenia’s national commitments to the European Union, are there any reservations that would prevent interested producers from creating conditions for the production and processing of sugar beet into sugar or renewable energy in Slovenia following the fall of sugar quotas in 2015? At the same time, I am interested in: Can interested producers that provide for the economic production and processing of beet and the investment capital needed to do so rely on the constructive support of the competent ministry?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u433	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u434	Thank you very much. Given that quotas are due to fall in 2015, we might still be able to deal with this at the next meeting, but let us take this to the end today. The restructuring programme was completed within the deadline, and this social programme was also implemented, which is an appropriate payment to dismissed workers, as well as satisfaction to sugar beet producers. All sugar production plants were also removed, sugar storage silos and a package still in operation and sold to Pfeifer and Langen were kept. The business plan of the factory did not contain a substitute culture, but, as I have already said, compensation was paid to processors as well, and on the other hand the conversion of these products to other cultures: wheat, olive oil and other crops. The activity of storage and packaging of sugar carried out by this German company was maintained and part of the railway was sold to Slovenian railways. There is also a business building and vacant facilities with the infrastructure for which the owners are looking for investors or buyers to establish a new economic activity. The Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development shall monitor the procedures. The monitoring of this programme did not establish an irregularity. The agricultural inspection of the Agriculture, Forestry and Food Inspectorate, which also reviewed the conclusion, concluded that the production of the hall and the storage room for pellets of song noodles should be removed, according to the recovery programme. Even more problematic is the fact that the revision of this project and the correctness of the implementation of the restructuring project were also by the European Commission, and their conclusion is that, in view of the regulation providing for the reform of sugar, silos should also be removed. This is one of the issues we are also having in dialogue with the European Commission. The secretary has been on this topic for a month, two back in Brussels, on a similar level, or even larger dimensions are taking place in Italy, so there can also be one other thing that will have to be handled very thoroughly on the European Commission's side and we. As far as 2015 is concerned, the abolition of quotas is still envisaged when adopting the common agricultural policy. I hope that these will not be any major producers that affect this change so far, and we do not have any more of these obligations and commitments in this Regulation, in this market Slovenia has entered into and renounced these productions of sugar beet processing and sugar production. So if in 2015 we know that the price of sugar is very high and that the profitability of sugar beet production is also appropriate, by the Ministry of Agriculture and also some of the discussions have already been held, we know about the group that initiates these discussions, to be prepared with processors and possibly interested economic operators, and this production may be awakened. It is much easier to produce sugar beet alone, and if strong initiatives come along, it will also consider possible start-up of sugar processing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u435	Yes, please, Mr. Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u436	Given the late hour, I'm not gonna ask you any more questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-06-11-SDZ6-Redna-04.ana.u437	You can't go through the Rules of Procedure either. You can only ask for a supplement to the answer. Well, we have exhausted our parliamentary questions with this. I interrupt this item on the agenda, which leaves us with a vote tomorrow on the proposed decisions to hold a discussion on the answers. Well, that's up to us tomorrow. I also interrupt and interrupt the fourth session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Dear colleague and respectable four colleagues and, of course, both ministers with co-workers, good night.
