ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 42nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened under Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Andreja Črnak Meglič, Janja Klasinc, Melita Župevc, Tsvetka Zalokar Orazem, Bogdan Barovič, Anton Kolarič, Milenko Ziherl, Roberto Battelli, Anton Urh, Matjaž Zanoškar, Marijan Križman and Milan Gumzar. I invited representatives of the Government and representatives of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia to the 2nd item of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 42nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda today, 21. 4. 2011, with reference to the sitting. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda for today's meeting be set by reference. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 42nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision on the schedule of the legislative referendum on amendments and amendments to the law on the protection of documents and archiving and archiving. Your Honor! I am informed that the report is still being reproduced to be on the bench in five minutes, but I suggest that this is a further explanation for the proposal to continue and that the material will be distributed in the meantime. But I can also order a five-minute break, if that's what you want. So let's get on with it. The 23 Members and Members of Parliament are with the first-signed Jozet Tank on 11th day. 2. 2011 submitted a request to the National Assembly for an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives. In order to further explain the request, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u2	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! First of all, it must be said that we regret that the current set of stories about the closure of the old archives has led so far as to keep the archives open to the public, people at the referendum must decide. Unfortunately, there is no other way to prevent a harmful novel. Thank God that this time he has overcome reason and that people are allowed to decide on the same day on all three referendum issues. After all the debates so far, the public still has no answer to a rather simple question: What is so important in those bad five percent of the former Udbov archives that failed to clean up before 1990 that the government has identified their closure as the most important priority? What is so important in these archives that they need to be closed today? It is not the Slovenian Democratic Party or the opposition that deals with archives today, but the Slovenian Democratic Party is undoubtedly the one who cares about constitutionality and does not care about legality. That is why in the time of the previous government in 2006, five years ago, the Archives Act was adopted, which regulates this area in an appropriate and European comparable way. Nor has the previous government by regulation closed access to archives, which some in previous debates have repeatedly repeated, which is an anachronism in itself, since if this were the case, then your novels are totally unnecessary, and you forced it on all the weights. You based the ruling novel on the unconstitutionality of the provisions of the current law. The Constitutional Court has completely rejected your suspicions. The existence of possible anti-constitutional consequences was examined by the Constitutional Court on the assumption that the amendment was rejected. The Constitutional Court states in its explanatory statement that the origin of the anti-constitutional effects could only be discussed if the law in force was unconstitutional and the law adopted would eliminate this unconstitutionality. It's not like that. The current regime is not unconstitutional, as you argued by the law's proponents, and those who, with your political support for the archives past the law, thus also rejecting the law in the referendum cannot lead to an unconstitutional situation and cannot, by rejecting the novel, result in unconstitutional consequences, which means that the law in force is in conformity with the law and that the amendment of the law is unnecessary. More. In the attached separate opinion of the Constitutional Judge, Dr. Mitt Deisinger, who is attached to him by two other Constitutional Judges, mag. Miroslav Mozetič and Constitutional Judge Jan Zobs, the inadequacy of the archive novel is further clarified. In their view, the rejection of the amendment would not result in unconstitutional consequences. The most obvious confirmation of such a finding is at the time of the five-year validity of the Archives Act, when there have been no unconstitutional consequences and, therefore, the law in force has already carried out a kind of test that confirms its compliance with the Constitution. Using archival data relating to the period before 17. 5. In 1990, Igor Omerza published the book Edward Kocbek, personal file number 584, which produced no anti-constitutional consequences. And continue to be three Constitutional Judges in a binding separate opinion. The correct interpretation of the third paragraph of Article 65 of the Law on Archives already by a language method shows that it does not refer to archival material which would affect the position of the Republic of Slovenia or the security of the State, its foreign policy or economic interests. Finally, in an affirmative separate opinion, it follows from the preamble to the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia that the SFRJ does not act as a rule of law and seriously violates human rights. All the regulations and functioning of bodies associated with human rights violations should no longer be applied in the Republic of Slovenia. As far as these rules are concerned, legal discontinuity has been given. The National Assembly has already decided on this issue at the time of the adoption of the previous Article 67 of the Law on Archives and Archives. The explanation for this article shows that there is no legal basis in any of the relevant Continuities with the former SFRJ for designations of all types of confidentiality and for any restrictions on the use of the material. In the SFRY, the State Security Service or, more clearly, the Uda and the political police acted with specific operational methods and means on the basis of classified rules, which constituted a serious violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms. This was found by the Constitutional Court in decision UI-25/95, which is also binding on the legislator. It is in this regard that the issue of intelligence and anti-intelligence activities is raised until 17 May 1990, whose archival data are substantially more limited than in the archives of social and judicial organisations by virtue of the provision of the new fourth paragraph of Article 65 of the Act on Archives and Archives on Accessibility. This protects and makes it difficult to access data on the functioning of the former State Security Service and its members and co-workers. Indirectly, this gives the legitimacy of the functioning of the State Security Service, which is totally contrary to the cited Constitutional Court decision. This ad hoc opinion also mentions the 2007 Regulation, which, apparently unsuccessfully, you also referred to in the discussions on the closure of this material. While this Regulation is irrelevant in this case, it must, of course, be properly interpreted, the Constitutional Judges say. The Regulation has not amended nor has it been able to amend the provisions of the current Law on Archives and Archives, since it is clear from Article 1 of the Regulation that it relates only to the delivery of material to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia. Article 4 of the Regulation provides only that the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia as a new location of the archive shall provide for special protection and accessibility to that material in order to prevent unauthorised access or abuse. The word "accessibility" to the archives of the former State Security Service in the Regulation is summarised in accordance with the title of Article 6 of the Law on the Protection of Archives and Archives, the principle of accessibility relating to the technical aspect of the storage of documentary material. The substantive legal conditions for access to this archive material have remained exactly the same since the adoption of the Regulation in 2007 and under Article 65, paragraph 3, of the Archives Act. Your novels, respected rulings, close access to archival materials. The novel is harmful, the novel is unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court did not agree with your proposal. It rejected your claim that the current law was unconstitutional, which was at all the basis for preparing this novel of the archival law. The novelty should also be rejected at the referendum because it is obviously the sole purpose of protecting some of the current authorities so that the public does not know what they were doing before 1990. Notwithstanding the referendum, it should be pointed out that the current authorities act as if this amendment had already been enforced. You closed the archives against the law, past the law. We therefore expect those who are responsible, in particular the highest representatives of the authorities, including the President of the State, to cease to communicate and to call for compliance with the law without delay and to allow access to archival material for all those who are unlawfully and unlawfully restricting this access to them today. We therefore expect them to call for respect for the law, respect for the law and to act and resolve those who prevent it because they are acting deliberately against the law. There is also something important about the Constitutional Court's decision in this case, which will also have implications for future bad laws. In this case, it is possible to understand between the lines the decision of the Constitutional Court in this case in the way that the Constitutional Court no longer intends to be a filter of the government coalition, which, by preventing referendums, would prevent decisions on bad and unnecessary laws or novelties. The responsibility for bad laws is fully vested in authority. This responsibility cannot be assumed either by the Constitutional Court or by the opposition. The opinion of the Constitutional Court can also be understood that the amendment is unnecessary because it does not regulate anything. Unfortunately, however, there is no other option to reject it than to take a decision at the referendum on 5 June 2011. It is best that this novel never sees the light of the world at all, because it is shameful for the Democratic Republic of Slovenia to have the government deal with other matters that are of greater importance at that time, not by closing the old Udbov archives 30 or more years ago. So another bad law to be rejected was found on the list of bad government laws. Unfortunately, there is no alternative but to a referendum, so this must be taken advantage of and the law rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The Group of Members and Members also submitted a proposal for a decree as regards the request to the National Assembly. In order to further explain the draft decision, I give the floor to the representative of the Magi applicants. Branku Grims. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u4	Your Honor! What a fine greeting for all today’s symbolic day! We will come to the referendum day, not only because of the proposal we have been defending all the months of the last year, but unfortunately this proposal has been repeatedly rejected by the ruling coalition, but also because of the decision of the unions and the decision of the Constitutional Court. The motion for a decree, which I am presenting today, has already been completed and is in line with the text of the other two decrees, is a decree on a referendum on the prohibition of neighbourhood aid and a decision concerning the law on pension reform. We'll do all the referenda on the same day, that'll be June 5th. At the same time, all the electoral tasks will take place, which will be much easier for all those who will participate and, above all, will be easier for the people, for all those who will vote in the referendums and will also be cheaper for the country of Slovenia. From this point of view, this is a major step forward, and I hope that this experience will help, sooner or later, to be a legal solution that has already been proposed by the SDS in the parliamentary procedure, this is about the launch of a referendum day. The policy should always be about values, teaching polytology, and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Documentary Material Protection Act, when people decide on its application, will in fact decide to respect the European values covered by the resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which was practically unanimously adopted in the European Parliament also by the votes of all Members and Members elected from the country of Slovenia to the European Parliament. What does the resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism say in Article 6? It regrets that 20 years after the collapse of communist dictatorships in Central and Eastern Europe in some Member States still unduly restricts access to documents that are important to individuals or necessary for scientific research, the European Parliament calls on all Member States to make real efforts to open archives, including archives of former internal security services, secret police and intelligence services. Since this has been attempted to be misused for political purposes, we can only express our gratitude to the Constitutional Court that it has made it very clear that such behaviour would be in clear violation of the Constitution and allowed a referendum, which is therefore constitutionally indisputable. We will therefore decide on the European values, the values on which modern united Europe is based. Because modern united Europe is based on the fall of the Berlin Wall, on the fall of all those regimes that were based on secret political polices that collected data, systematically violating human rights, which many individuals in the past, perhaps today, have abused for political purposes and to discredit political opponents. What is hidden in these archives was asked as a question and met doubts. If we vote against the referendum, we will allow the archives to be open, there will be no more doubts, and everyone will be able to see firsthand what is in them and what is not. And I'm sure it'll be good for Slovenia, because it's no worse than doubt. The two in democracy act as cancer and influences all decisions and the atmosphere and also the confidence of the institutions of the country. For this reason, 5 June will be an ideal opportunity to demonstrate, by voting against it, that we are consistently committed to the values of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Just an explanation, there is no law banning neighbourhood aid, so it cannot be at the referendum. At the referendum, there's a law on restricting work to black. So much for information to all present. The motion for a decree was also addressed by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the president of Majda Potrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State with his fellow Members and Members! At its 23rd urgent meeting on 21 April 2011, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth considered the draft decree on the invitation to a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and the archives submitted for consideration by the Group of Members and Members, with the first signed by Jozet Tank. The amendments were tabled by the SDS, the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, at part 3 and part 4 of the draft decree. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth held a debate and a vote on the individual parts of the draft decree and the amendments tabled. Representatives of the Ministry of Culture, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture Dr Stojan Pelko and representative of the Law and Legal Service Lenča Arko Fabjan participated in the meeting of the Committee. Mr Zorn said that they were satisfied with the decision of the Constitutional Court, which rejected the request of the National Assembly to assess the constitutionality of the consequences arising from the rejection of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and the archives at the referendum, because they considered that the topic under consideration was appropriate for the referendum. However, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, Dr Stojan Pelko, felt that the inconsistencies enshrined in Article 65 of the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives remained. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service presented their opinion and drew attention to the incorrect date of receipt of the request in point 1 of the draft decree and to the inappropriate dates of the date of the call and the date of the vote at the legislative referendum in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the draft decree. It explained that the adoption of the proposed amendments would also address these shortcomings. After the discussion on the individual parts of the draft decree and the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted the amendments of the SDS Group to the fourth section, which was identical to the proposal for the amendment of the Committee to the fourth part of the decree, and the amendment to the fourth section was withdrawn by the SDS Group. In accordance with Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee drew up and adopted its amendments to the first part of the decree, where the date of 10 February 2011 was replaced by the date of 11 February 2011, and the third part of the decree was replaced by the date of 28 March 2011 by the date of 23 April 2011, and the fourth part of the decree was replaced by the date of 8 May 2011. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all parts of the draft decree and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the supplementary motion for a decree, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended proposal for a resolution is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory presentation of the opinion. Dr Stojan Pelko, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u8	Mr President, Members of Parliament and Members of the Parliament! Allow me to thicken what I said on the board this afternoon at four points. Firstly, the Ministry of Culture consistently respects the Constitutional Court's decision, so it will not for a moment be tempted to seek a gap between binding and dissuasive separate opinions. Secondly, we regret that the Constitutional Court did not take into account the evidentiary proposal that a presentation of arguments be made at the closed main hearing, which would remove the findings of the Constitutional Court, should not be justified in its requests by specific arguments. Why the closed main treatment? Because it was security sensitive data. The third point, as just stated, is the fundamental inconsistencies in our view of the current law in Article 65, between the first and third paragraphs, the first of which restricts access to sensitive data and the third paragraph makes this access possible without any restrictions. Specific lives, the reputation of the state, can be found in this gap. In the opinion of the Ministry of Culture, in particular the referendum, a loud referendum campaign on data that could compromise the security of people and the interest of the State in literal contradictio and adiecto, the Ministry of Culture will propose that in this episode the only state-of-the-art action is consistent with silence, i.e. cultural silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u10	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we strongly opposed the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, because we believe that we must face the past, regardless of how it was, and acknowledge all the actions at issue. We live in the independent, independent and sovereign Republic of Slovenia, which broke up 20 years ago with a non-democratic system that deliberately violated human rights and freedoms, so we do not see the need for such or otherwise protection of individuals who knew or even participated in such violations. The protection of sensitive personal data, which could reveal the identity of individuals involved in information or counterintelligence activities in the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, is, in our opinion, already possible under Article 65 of the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, since it gives the fourth paragraph of that Article the archival commission the power to decide on the conditions of access to such data. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that all our attention must be focused on dealing with the consequences of the social and economic crisis and the crisis of moral and ethical values that are present in our society at this moment. Only successfully coping with such challenges is a guarantee for the normal functioning of our country in the present and for its well-being in the future. The request for a legislative referendum is a right established by law and law, so we do not challenge the applicants who have submitted this request. We have not submitted our signatures to the request because we believe, as has already been mentioned, that all political energy must be devoted to the state in which the country is currently located and that we should look for solutions how to proceed. The referendum is a constitutional institution worthy of respect and its application must be prudent and justified. As we have warned many times in the Slovenian People's Party, the inflation of referendums means a great grading of this institution, and in people it raises resistance to all or all that is related to politics, the National Assembly or the Government. However, in the Slovenian People's Party, we respect everything by the Constitution of certain powers, which requires a legislative referendum to be called for, and therefore we will not oppose the requirement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good evening, colleagues and colleagues! Let me briefly re-establish the history of the previous examinations of this law and the position of the DeSUS Group on this matter. Members of the two parties, with the support of two other Members, made a request for a legislative referendum as soon as the law was confirmed in the State Council. At that time, the DeSUS Group agreed that it was appropriate for the Constitutional Court to have a preliminary ruling on the possible unconstitutional consequences that the rejection of the novel could have. Since it is a matter of adequate protection or protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms, the substance of the law in force and proposed under Article 65 of the Law must be dealt with in particular. We supported the changes in the law in the DeSUS Group. We have been and are still convinced that the unlimited early disclosure of certain data from the archive material relating to intelligence and security activities in the period before 17 May 1990 would harm the foreign policy, economic interest or even the security of our country. In addition, not only the dignity but also the security of any individual who has acted in an intelligence or counterintelligence capacity at that time for the benefit of the State, but also those persons, in view of those who carry out this service after that date, are in an unequal position, which does not correspond to constitutionally guaranteed human rights and fundamental freedoms. In order to make the amendment necessary and justified, several reasoned opinions were also made by legal experts, archive and historical experts and the Ombudsman. The constitutional decision allowing this referendum is based on the conclusion that the National Assembly is not sufficiently specific, but has only abstractly stated the possible consequences for human rights and security of the State. However, it follows from the separate opinion of one of the members of the Court that, despite the unconcrehension of possible cases of human rights violations, it should be sufficient to provide the State Assembly with an unlimited access to archive material to disclose the persons involved in the collection of intelligence for the benefit of Slovenia, which could trigger acts of violence by individuals or groups against those persons and their family members whose data are covered by that archive. It is also granted that human rights are more important than the right of everyone to information of a public nature. Of course, the decision of the Constitutional Court will have to be respected. Nevertheless, we do not believe that the referendum on this matter is justified, as it is our assessment that this is simply the obvious abuse of the Institute, which is supposed to be the widest option for citizens to decide on substantive matters. This time, however, the referendum requirement is obviously built only on the charges of slandering certain persons and in some way misleading the public to continue to hide matters from the previous system by closing this particular part of the material. Of course, today's formalities regarding the date of the referendum will not be avoided.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Miran Györek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Given that the request for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives fulfilled all the legal conditions laid down, it was logical to expect the Constitutional Court to act as it did. Some Constitutional Judges argue that the request of the National Assembly that the Constitutional Court should prohibit a referendum was indeed unfounded and that the allegations and conclusions on the risks and risks for the Republic of Slovenia and the State interest and certain individuals from the intelligence services were quite flat and unconvincing. As a result of what we have argued in previous positions and debates, members of the Slovenian National Party, including the Constitutional Court in this session, and I believe that even in any other session, there has been no finding that there are anti-constitutional consequences. It will probably have to be clear to all of us sooner or later that it is no longer an existing former Yugoslav State, for those days its security intelligence services, which, as a rule, with our country, the independent Republic of Slovenia no longer have any connection. What continuity in this area really does not make sense to speak or try to apologize. The threats and hypotheses about threats to security, the protection of human rights and the related constitutional rights of individuals in our new country were also unsustainable. An attempt to prevent the opening of these old archives or, as a result, to prevent a referendum on opening them, we find it unreasonable in the Slovenian National Party. In addition, it is because of this that many speculations arise, what and for whom, as if a sin were to be revealed or exposed to any truth or fact that would endanger someone. Can the truth really threaten anyone? Who are the ones who fear the truth of the day? Maybe they're afraid of possible rights? I think today is a really big day of fear. We do not understand why we should hide something from our own people. In fact, it is unacceptable, immoral, irresponsible not to say in any cases criminal, criminal. Let's look around, say the Federal Republic of Germany. Did it require a referendum to disclose Stasi's archives and records? No, because they acted logically and responsibly. Are there any unconstitutional consequences for the security of the German State? No, no, no. Have any human rights been violated? Has anyone been punished for exposing the archives of persecution? As far as I know, no one. We all know who and what Stasi was. Why, then, fear in the Republic of Slovenia so that we can come together on a white day with what truth? In fact, the request for an assessment has placed the Constitutional Court in a position to declare the admissibility of the referendum, which is really unnecessary when the legislative branch of power requires it to do so at the summit, namely us, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We find it very infantile to have some explanations and arguments about some of the continuity of the former SFRJ and our current independent and independent state. We are even less concerned about disclosing any information on the identity of those individuals who then acted in intelligence or counterintelligence for Yugoslavia 20 years ago. Even if there are those who have worked for the benefit of our country today, they will certainly not be threatened. But if they have worked to the detriment of our country today, but the country is right and just to have consequences for their personal dignity, under the terms of dignity, because those who have acted against their own nation have harmed them, they have no dignity, and we do not feel sorry for them. However, there is likely to be some kind of fearsome reconstruction of past events. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that our moral duty, as well as our normal political responsibility to the reality of the Slovenian people, should be interpreted by historians, not politicians. Such a simple and acceptable thesis, unfortunately the course of events and the unreasonable political positions of some ruling structures, including probably some in the background, have led so far as to end up being decided by the whole Slovenian nation. For our sakes, luckily for this referendum, there will be no additional significant costs, as we will kill three flies at the same time. I would also like to reiterate the need and sense for the introduction of a referendum day, or rather a referendum week, but, last but not least, why not, as in this case, the first week of June. I think it's time we agreed on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We supported the proposal for a law on the protection of documentary and archival materials and archives at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, since the law, unlike the previous law, provides the legal basis for access to these archives by the public concerned. Finally, the refusal of access to such material to an interested publicist was based on the law in force before this was adopted. Following the adoption of a law that did not give rise to the veto of the State Council, a group of Members and Members requested a call for a subsequent legislative referendum. In the LDS Club, we, together with other coalition groups of Members, sent a law to examine the Constitutional Court in order to determine whether, if possible, to reject the law at the referendum, there could be unconstitutional consequences, or whether human rights violations of individuals and harmful and even irreparable consequences for the country could occur. For we believe that respect for the Constitution is a fundamental substance beyond which no policy can pass, so we are convinced that such a step is necessary every time there is a shadow of doubt that there may be a violation of the Constitution. We have also done the same in the case of the Arbitration Agreement and the Disability and Pension Insurance Act, where interpretations have also emerged that this is a constitutional disputed matter. Since the Constitutional Court has decided that, in the case of the Law on the Protection of Documented and Archived Material and Archives, the invitation to referendum does not have a counter-constitutional effect, there is no reservation in the LDS to the implementation of the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by the mag. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u18	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! With regard to the resolution on the call for a referendum on protection or access to archives, our parliamentary group has different views, but I must say that we believe that the proposal for this decision is essentially an abuse of the widest political democracy. It is primarily one of the means to spend money and wake up in the country and to strengthen it that everything is wrong and that referendums are the only way to eliminate this power and come into power by someone else who has very little to do with the consequences, the harmful consequences, the fact that anyone can scratch archives, no matter what happens to the country, what is the greater damage and what will be the narrower. And of course, the data and things written there will undoubtedly be used for political purposes to discredit their political opponents. However, if there is no such information that could burden anyone, parts or parts of the archive will be falsified for anyone. I don't think he can, given who he is, limit himself to if they've gone to the President of the Republic to tell us what we can do if they come to power. I wouldn't be surprised if this happened to anyone who wouldn't nod, who wouldn't be ours, because "not ours" would turn into enemies in some political option, not thinking otherwise, and that's not good. At a time when we should do things together in this country in order to come out of the crisis, some refer to a nation that knows what the archives say. I'm sure the nation doesn't care much about what anyone said or did 50, 60 or 20 years ago. People are interested in how they live today, how they will live tomorrow, and I hope that sooner or later they will overlook it and that the creators of such an atmosphere in this country will slowly turn to public opinion support. But if it doesn't, then unfortunately only "they" can help those who get to know the real purpose of doing it too late. We will not support the ruling in general because those who invented it should vote for themselves. We do not think that so many referendums are necessary, whether they are all at the same time or individually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented only by Bevk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! In Slovenia we are witnessing the erosion of representative democracy, which drowns in the referendum swamp. In particular, it is followed by the largest opposition party blinded by the 50-plus number, with the milestone more likely to be linked to the number of referendum initiatives that have been tabled. Therefore, it is only possible to take care of the peoples' goods, which can be understood only as false flattery to the Slovenian public, from the empty words of the president of the largest opposition party. Instead of allowing empty words to translate into constructive cooperation in the process of creating a more favourable social and economic environment, some in the light of the campaign are strategically and systematically breaking down through the institutions of the democratic order of the Republic of Slovenia, all with a view to following themselves, their own partial goals. They go so far as to threaten the international reputation and credibility of the State and to deny the fundamental human rights of individuals who are in the past, and many of them in the present, have worked for the well-being of this country. They should not be subject to the constitutionally guaranteed right to personal security and dignity, the right to privacy and personal rights, the right to the protection of personal data, and not to the right to alleged innocence at all. No, those who did work in various organisations of the Slovenian state before 17 May 1990 are almost criminals. Well, not all of them. Not ours, not yours, but you. The great story that the opposition SDS and SNS have been knitting in the past months has turned into a blight that could only be softened by victory at the referendum. The systematic disqualification of people who have acted in the interest of Slovenia is based on half-truths, the embodiment of historical facts and the reversal of the printed word. They do not choose the means to achieve their internal policy objectives. At the same time, warnings of real threats to the country and its people are mixed with observations of a coup d'état. By disclosing and creating documents, however, in the first place they ridicule themselves, as they testify to their insurmountable ability to tailor archive documents. It is interesting, however, that from publicly available documents, some have also been published in the Official Journal, it follows that the Janša government has found the law itself inappropriate and has therefore gone to a regulation with it. On the contrary, it saw that the full opening of SDV archives could endanger national security. Therefore, special protection and accessibility has been proposed for this part of the material. On the basis of the regulation, on 2 July 2008, the current Director of Sove Andrej Rupnik and the Director of the Archive, Dr Matevž Koshr, concluded an agreement on the special protection and accessibility of certain parts of the archive material. The second paragraph of Article 1 states, inter alia, that the material of the SDV was mainly produced at the time of its operation, but is related to the material produced after 1991. It has set a level of secrecy "secret" as it contains sensitive and relevant information for the security and interests of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the "secret" level has been affixed to the documents by the previous government. The largest opposition party announced in a crowd of meetings the low-day apocalyptic dimensions of the disclosure of alleged burdensome evidence of the behaviour of the President of the Republic, Dr. Danil Türk, for the assassination in Veliovac in September 1979, but the public remained uncomforted in their high expectations. Chronic evidence has proved to be a forgery as another of the products of the SDS archival factory. By the way, one of the specimens from this party's private archives appears as so-called evidence in some court proceedings against this party. Even though the attempt at lustration of the President of the Republic failed, the collateral damage was great. It was most visible in Austria's Koroška, where a minority in its half-century struggle for bilingual local inscriptions faced a marked deterioration of its negotiating venues before the start of the negotiations. There is no discontinuity between SDV and VIS and Owl. See today's website and an article on history entitled From SDV to VIS to Sove do?, written by former Interior Minister Igor Bavčar. [[...]] Some of the activities of the service, which began in the 1970s and 1980s, continued even after 1990. As an interesting thing to say, the last action, launched in the 1970s, ended in 2004. This continuity is also followed by the archives of the State Security Service and all its successors. Therefore, the uncritical opening of all archival documents is contrary to the national interests and security of the State and its individuals. In the Group of Social Democrats, we respect the autonomy of the Constitutional Court's decision on the admissibility of the referendum, even though this was not uniform in its position. However, we would like to inform the candidates of the referendum that they should vote for themselves this time too, because we will not support them in the New Destructive Presentation in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have just heard two political left soldiers pointing all guns at the Slovenian Democratic Party. I did not see any reaction by the President of the National Assembly, which means that the President of the National Assembly agrees with the most brutal attack on the Slovenian Democratic Party. That's why I have to react to some things on my own. I didn't even make any special arrangements because I was going to finish my performance in a minute or two because it would be the most appropriate. So all I did was write down some of the roughest things that have just been said. The decree is an abuse. Yes, that means that those who claim to do so do not respect either the Constitution or the Constitutional Court when it suits them, but when it does not suit them, they refer to it. Also, the SD's announcement that they do not intend to support the ruling is that you probably know that this is not only a denial of the decree before us, but it is a denial of the Constitution and the Constitutional Court. You probably know that. The crisis in the coalition is already so great that you can no longer be expected to respect the Constitutional Court. I'm afraid you'll do something else to stay in power. That's possible, too. Talking about the previous government as some kind of criminal government and participating in it, walking around as a member of that coalition, saying today that it was a half-criminal government, and participating in it, is kind of absurd. And walk around with a nail and a hammer and threaten to kill a nail in a coalition coffin. You know, it's a scam. I've heard this in the previous government every Tuesday at the coalition council. To talk about human rights, the security of the state of Slovenia, as one of the representatives of the coalition said in connection with the archives of the State Security Service, I no longer know what it is. I don't know how to mark that. I don't know how to label it anymore. Is that a hoax? I don't know if it is. Is that a lack of knowledge? I don't know if it is. I don't know, I can't mark it, I can't tell you what it is. To talk about the human rights of those who carried out international terrorism, to talk about the human rights of those who had money in and around the Marlboro factory and smuggled it, to talk about the human rights of those who drove our Slovenian citizens in the trunks to Slovenia from Italy. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, so you're talking about their rights. Yeah, okay. You're talking about the security of the country. Why did the country, the Republic of Slovenia, not collapse between 2006 and 2010, when these archives were public? They were public, nothing happened. Someone's talking about a regulation. Read the decision of the Constitutional Court and separate opinions! That would be really good if you read it. There is also a very clear answer to this question. The regulation didn't close anything. The Regulation has established a method of accessibility. And the answer to those who are most troubled by your signature as former director of the Owl. It holds what you said, but the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was not aware of this action in 2008 and 2007. We've already made that public. But we're going back now. You're talking about human rights. Let’s make a point — the State Security Service at the federal level, called Ubba, was formed immediately after independence, immediately after the origin of the former Yugoslavia, and was a relatively mass service. You can read that where you read it, that would be very good. She was employed exclusively with the most audited personnel, and by 1966 she had grown all the frameworks of the current arrangements. What happened in 1966? The former head of Yugoslavia, I am talking about Titus, realized in 1966 that this service had risen above his head. So he called in the so - called Briony Trium and drove three quarters of its members into exile. They retired when they were 35 years old. Some still live today. How'd it go with Rankovic, and you know it. So he figured out that this service was operating outside the system at the time. He figured it out. Many of you still swear on it. Let's keep looking. By about three quarters, the number of employees in this service had decreased in 1966. Since 1966 you have a situation where this service is being re-established when this service is growing again, but it is the only one that is fully linked to Belgrade, centralised to the greatest extent possible, a large part of the action is led by Belgrade, a small part of the action led by the Republic's leadership. And of course, it multiplied until 1990, when it counted about 700, 800 people. Such a number is also at the time of the break of power in 1990. The fact that this was a political police force is quite clear. Its main task was to maintain a one-party political system. You will not find the work of this service defined in any law. Only the Internal Affairs Act of 1980 mentions the area of national security in a single indent. And he doesn't mention anything else. This shall be the subject of all the secret rules, which shall give effect to all the rules of law on the basis of which this service has acted, of course, shall never be published anywhere. I told you that it was one of the important tasks of this service to maintain a single-party system. The fact that this service dealt with international terrorism, we know. Today, more known information is about her potential, because we don't know yet, the role in the murder of Olaf Palme. Today, it is well known that she violated human rights at every turn. Why? Because in this Chamber in Slovenia she kept one of the political options that we have here today's successors. But all that was a substitute for any opposition was suppressed by this service with all possible means. The liquidations were also allowed. Not to talk about those little things, but Dr. Jože Pučnik and so on and so on and many others. These were actually little things, we know that today. Let us see what happened during the period just before the conquest or during the period of independence. I was alone at the time in the cabinet of Minister Bavčar, so some of the information is a little more familiar to me. You know there was an arrest of four in 1988. The Public Security Service, where Milica belonged at the time — I was a member, as you know, of myself — where the Criminal Police belonged, did not carry out this task of arresting the Quartet. The director of the Ljubljana Police Administration, Mr Milan Domadenik, knew nothing about this. The arrest of the Quartet was carried out by the State Security Service because it knew that it was possible for the opposition in the image of Mr Janša and all those arrested at the time. Time before 1990. It is also necessary to be realistic and not unilateral. You will not be able to tell me that I am unilateral, but the time before 1990 is a time when some individuals or many individuals have also acted, it is necessary to say, in favour of the self-sustainment processes. Let's be realistic. However, this does not apply to anyone sitting in Belgrade, and this does not apply to the top of the State Security Service here in Ljubljana, but this does not apply. That's what you need to know. At the time of taking over power 15. 5. The 1990s raised quite a question of what to do with this job now. I was alone in Mr. Bavčar's office. What should we do now with all those who persecuted our enemies? What was done? A law was passed that allowed them to be retired. A total of 400 people were retired. When the intelligence service arrived in normal operating frameworks at the end of July 1990, I am talking about normal operating frameworks, it resisted. We told them that they would no longer carry guns because they did not need them to collect intelligence, and that they would not have an insurance age with an increase, so to the Minister of Bavaria, I think I could say that today, the job resisted. He switched leadership and we moved on. So much for a little history, the one you don't know. However, we must make it very clear that by 1988 and 1989 the Service had destroyed a large majority of its archives, a large majority of its archives. They were burned in Količev and somewhere else. Let's go back to the referendum and today. In 1997, the first law was passed, adopted by the Drnovskov government, which said that the archives of the Owl go to the archives, thus becoming the property of the archives, but one part remains secret. Ladies and gentlemen, by 2006, you know how many governments there have been. Two Drnovškova, one Ropov and the beginning of Janšev's work, this law, the law of the left, the LDS, in particular, which was then the leader of the government and was in charge, was not respected. In 2006, a special working group was appointed, which some are very fond to say is a pattern of archives. Isn't that right, Mr. Saiovic? No, this group has never gone through the archives. At the time she visited the Owl twice, we found that it was still there, and it should be in the archives. That's right. That's right. Therefore, in 2006, we adopted a law under which we said, not only must it be in the archives' premises, but it must also be public. The regulation, I repeat, allows for a way of access and do not say that it prevents access. For the so-called Rupnik-Directors, as the director writes, I have forgotten that the signature between the director of the archive and the director of the Sovea Mr Rupnik Government has not been made aware. I hope your government is aware of every detail made by a director or a secretary of state. I hope you're really better, but the situation doesn't show that. Those who spoke about human rights, which you talked about exploitation etc., 2006 365 days, 2007 365 days or 364, 2008, 2009 four times after 365 days, count how many days it is. 1200 and something. Nothing happened, no one died, no one was threatened, the state of Slovenia acted perfectly normal, actually better than today, we know that. Nothing happened, ladies and gentlemen! No agent of the Owl or the then State Security Service has been compromised. Nothing, no problem. In 2009, the researcher was inside, she reviewed these matters. Nothing happened, nothing. But it did happen to Mr. Omerza, which is true. Mr. Omerza happens and because he wants to have a specific folder, the director of the archive or then the director of the Owl says, "No, that's not it!".. Because he wanted to have a specific folder, that's why and this is where we started our story, which we're going to end on June 5th. Let's keep looking. The director of the archive sitting here behind us all the time until November of last year says that the law must be respected, Omerzi must be allowed. Director Owl says no. But look, here's the interesting thing. The archives were closed. So with the law you passed, you closed this part of the archive. Do you remember the explanation? "We do not know what is in the archives, but we do know that it endangers the national interests and security of the state of Slovenia." That's what Mr Pahor said, that's what all of you, who said, whether after him or not, said a little bit, but in similar words. So we don't know what's out there, we have no idea, because we can't know, because it's secret, but we know it's threatening the interests of the state of Slovenia. But then you wrote a statement to the Constitutional Court and now you can read the decision What's the First Constitutional Court? The Constitutional Court said that the coalition had not substantiated the case. Yeah, well, how would you justify it if she didn't know what was in there? All he knows is that this is dangerous for the state of Slovenia. It's a perfectly normal thing. Perhaps a few more words, so the Constitutional Court has decided, as it is, it has not been uniform, but I hope, and that is how I understand the Constitutional Court's decision. The Constitutional Court also said: "We no longer like to cover the legislative branches of power. Decide as you have to. Make your own decisions and don't hide for us." I hope this is a big school for the front and for future referendums. So who would we protect? Look, it's totally unnecessary to talk about this today, it's totally unnecessary to refer to the Slovenians and I don't know what else, it's completely unnecessary to talk about some agents who worked until 2004 for the interests of the former and the present country. 15. 5. In 1990, we finished the old country, and you want to continue living with it or reanimating it with artificial breathing. That's when we're done and it's over. But if anyone is, I told you so myself, at many of those meetings before the adoption of the law, all individuals who would be threatened in any way can be protected by the Personal Data Protection Act. Delete your name, last name. No problem. As far as we are concerned, then, we will support the decree, which is totally understandable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We are here today because the Constitutional Court has rejected the request of the National Assembly to prohibit the referendum on the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material. That is why today, the National Assembly must call for a referendum, as requested by SDS and SNS Members. In the view of the Truth Group, the new policy is primarily their responsibility and responsibility, and we will not actively cooperate with it or support this requirement. Of course, the Constitutional Court does not claim, as was said by the applicants, that because of their decision the law is unconstitutional. It argues only that the failure to enforce this law would not have counter-constitutional consequences. Whether Members have the opportunity to reject such a request, to abstain from it or to confirm it, it is, in fact, after we have voted several times on the topic of the congregation of Ankaran in the National Assembly and when a convincing majority of Members from virtually all the members of the groups have rejected the decision of the Constitutional Court, quite meaningless and ridiculous, at least by those who sometimes invoke the Constitutional Court when it suits them, but sometimes not. In particular, I think, by voting against the Council of State regarding the municipality of Ankara in the National Assembly, one political party has shown what they think about the constitution and what are the priorities of business, whether it is constitutional or otherwise. At that time, the emptiness in the National Assembly was very plausible, and since then I believe that all these high - flying words of constitutionality should be taken with a great reserve. In the Group, we really doubt that the legislative referendum on this sensitive subject is the right path for verification and a sincere attempt to reopen the debate on legal solutions. For we must not forget that both governments, the present and former, have reached the same conclusions regarding the protection of archival material or, as has been said today cynically, the regulation of access to archival material because, if it is, it is not to be closed. Both governments have come to the conclusion that certain archival material must be protected and restricted because it is material from the areas of state intelligence or anti-intelligence activities and their disclosure would be detrimental to the security of the State or its foreign policy or economic interests. In short, it is intended to harm the protection of national security or result in interference with personal security or the personal dignity of an individual. But here we are talking about the protection of human rights. It should be said that the current law and regulation allowed for a substantial portion of the archival material of the former State Security Service or of the Udba. And it is true that many of us here are young and among the people of Slovenia as a percentage more than in the National Assembly, and we do not know, we do not know the activities of the State Security Service, the secret service of the previous regime, and that is why our testimony is even more precious because of those who were passengers of this State Security Service. It must also be said that it is not us, nor Members, who would know what lies in these materials. This is precisely why we believe, as an example of a regulation, that the Director of the Owl should determine what is, what special security requires and to which materials should be restricted access or, as proposed by this law, that the Independent Commission should look at these materials and decide which materials to restrict access to. The former government has addressed the problem with a regulation regulating the way in which access is made and the current one with a legislative act. The content is therefore not a problem, the problem is obvious to the applicants who proposed this law: the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The National Assembly has decided on this matter. The Constitutional Court, I think it unjustifiably claims that here the National Assembly has failed to fulfil its function. Yeah, it is. The legislative process has been completed, but it is true that Slovenian legislation knows this exception, which only Denmark knows to allow a minority of Members to request a referendum. This is the truth, so sometimes it may seem that the National Assembly does not perform its function, even though it does. The text on the European values and resolutions of the European Parliament is quite inconsistent, especially since, consistently, when they are cited, let us say, the part of the European Parliament's resolution on totalitarianism that prohibits the abuse of such topics, such as archives, for political purposes. That's exactly what this is about. In our view, citing or requiring a referendum to find solutions to current challenges is looking for these solutions in the wrong places. In particular, they are concerned with irresponsible attacks and the discreditation of the Institute, such as the President of the State and the current President, specifically and so on. The consequences of this are already evident in the current negotiations on bilingual inscriptions in neighbouring Austria, we can have several certificates not only from Members, but from all those who accompany the public announcements that this matter has not remained unresolved and is of course already detrimental to Slovenian national interests. All of this is done with incredible ease, carelessness. Counterfeiting documents in this regard is, of course, a means of devoting itself to the objective. In our view, however, the aim is to act unconstitutionally and insist on an ideological fight. If this has to be the case, so be it. The votes of the Members of the Commission - there will be no new policy at the time of the call for this referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members of the draft decree. The drafter of mags has the floor. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u26	Thanks again for saying that. I must say that this time I was just a little surprised at the individual debates, and some things actually require an answer from the motioners. Thus, Mr Žnidaršič defined the content of the decree explicitly as, I quote, the "extreme abuse of democracy". Regarding what I have stressed as a quality that this decree is now in line with other decrees governing the 5 June referendums, he refused and said that so many referendums are not necessary. Then the SD representative continued and called it, quote: "referendum swamps" and took up constructive cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, this already requires some clarification. Why are we going to witness the three referendums on the same day? Why so many referendums? It should be recalled how the mechanism of this authority has worked since the beginning of this mandate. First of all, we from the opposition offered a cooperation hand, constructive cooperation and offered the continuation of the Development Partnership, just as we, but then as a power, offered in the previous mandate to the then opposition – the current authorities. And with a laugh, ladies and gentlemen, it was rejected, if we don't, we don't need it, we don't care. Okay, we've still tried to be constructive, we've proposed a number of laws, we've even requested extraordinary meetings of the entire national assembly. I would like to remind you that only one of us has proposed 63 acts, laws and other acts in favour of reviving the Slovenian economy. All the way from political prestige, if you want, out of political commotion. And that's actually how the mechanism of this power worked until now. There's something else you've done at the time. You've disrupted social dialogue. You've played social partners, some you've even specifically imposed. They trusted you in good faith, and then you turned it into your own benefit because you were following some of your narrow political goals. You have come against European values and Slovenian traditional values. All our amendments to try to avoid these traps have been rejected. Many, look back at your actions, including your ridicule. Ladies and gentlemen, the increased number of referendums today is a tax on the inflatability of your authority. That's the whole truth of these referenda. If we look at the individuals we're talking about today. The referendum on the law, which prohibits and even punishes inter-neighbourly assistance, is indeed a referendum on Slovenian traditional values, among which mutual assistance in rural areas is still a value that is alive and that is to be respected. You went against her. We have proposed that you avoid this trap, even if you have accepted one of our amendments, and then once again at the government and then at the coalition level in Parliament you threw it out of law. So today's the referendum. Write it down for yourself. Then you played the trust of the social partners or you just interrupted the social dialogue at some point. And that's why trade unions came today with over 40,000 signatures gathered in parliament and demanded a referendum. Because you've disrupted social dialogue. Why don't you just write that referendum down for yourself? Finally, today we are talking about a referendum on a law that actually restricts access to the archival material of the secret political police from the times of the past regime. We have also warned that such a proposal is contrary to the values followed by the European Union, which we are also committed to, for which, in the European Parliament's vote on the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, we have also voted in favour of this resolution, including your members and members from Slovenia. But in this House you rejected it because you had one face for Europe and one face for home. And you have thus come into a clear, irresistible conflict with the values on which even the European Union is founded, as it is based on the fall of the Berlin Wall, on the fall of totalitarianism. That is the essence of the European conscience. And in its 6th Article, when some of you have expressed yourself so negatively, it specifically refers to the inequitable restriction on access to documents, and it also explicitly mentions any restriction on access to the archives of the secret political police. However, because of the political abuses you have mentioned, it is obvious, in the light of the Constitutional Court’s judgment, that your conduct was a political abuse, otherwise it cannot be understood. What was the underlying argument on which you went to accept this law? Yes, that human rights can be gravely violated and that fundamental constitutional rights and freedoms must be protected and this part of the archive must be closed. If that were true, ladies and gentlemen, then the Constitutional Court would certainly ban this referendum and allow it and the Constitutional Court has put you in this part of the lie. For this reason, I simply cannot understand that you are still continuing with the same propaganda. The Constitutional Court has made it very clear that there can be no serious violations of human rights; there can be no situation contrary to constitutional regulation because we allow this referendum. If it were to assess the possibility of an infringement, it would certainly be prohibited. You know that sometimes it had such strict criteria that we simply did not understand them, for example, when restricting the prohibition of a referendum on the rise of legal tariffs, it prohibited them. In that case, it's not. This is said to be quite clear that, even in the light of such strict criteria, human rights violations cannot simply be infringed. And with this, you have just been lied to by the Constitutional Court in full argument. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the claim concerning the referendum swamp. This is the term used by respectable colleague Bevk of SD when he spoke of their position. You know, I'd like to remind you of the time of Slovenian independence. Slovenian independence is based on the people's referendum decision on plebiscite. And then, if you go back to the archives, you'll see that one of JLA's generals used the exact same term: "referendum swamp." Well, people of God, after 20 years in a democratic Slovenia, despite a new constitution at the level of political culture, the level of perception of who has power has really changed nothing? Today, the Slovenian Constitution in Article 2 puts people's direct decision-making first, in front of other forms based on elections and then on the principle of power-sharing. And this article is then broken down in Article 90, which sets out the principles of the referendum, in which cases, in what way and who may request it. And the realization of this article is the decree before us today. And once again, I firmly believe that the quality of this decree is also consistent with the other two decrees and that we will be able to take decisions on all these values that have been threatened because in our government's upheaval, the ruling coalition refused to listen to the opposition's comments and not the social partners on the same day. This is good because it will not only appreciate the whole story, it will also make it essential to make it easier for those who should keep them conscious all the time, people as a whole, because people will only go to the polls once, only once will they have to get in the car and drive away, only once will they have the costs, only once will they spend the time. And time is money. I therefore repeat the message that I have already said at the outset, I hope that this experience, when it comes to maintaining values when it comes to this last weapon of fundamental values that we are all committed to and that the people should decide directly, which allows the Constitution and gives it first place, should be decided in the way that is closest to them, which is the most favourable for them. And the interest of people should always be – in the conduct of any policy, in the evaluation of values, in the assessment of specific behaviour – first.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Just Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! To make it clear what I have said, I quote, "in Slovenia, we are witnessing the erosion of representative democracy, which drowns in the referendum swamp, after which the biggest opposition party, in particular, is blinded by the number 50 plus, and the milestone seems to be more than the election result related to the number of referendum initiatives that have been tabled". We can practically sign almost everything after your referendum. And one more thing. But talking about social dialogue in connection with archival laws is really depressed. In the SDS, you produce referendums to destabilize the coalition and to oppress the people's politics. You're doing relatively well. As with the same pattern you are doing this today, as you did in 2003 and 2004, when, thanks to your thanks to the referendums, we have spent millions of dollars today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u29	Are you going to be a proponent? I must say, there was a mag in front of you for the replica. Franz Žnidaršič, and then you will be a proponent. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u30	Thank you very much. If my statement that we should look together for solutions to the crisis, understood as a call for cooperation, I apologize. I believe that there was no great cooperation with the opposition's coalition, even though it was initially offered. I wanted to say that I didn't expect and I don't understand why you're acting destructively, because, for example, affronting pension reform is a destructive act in this difficult time of this country. And you know this well, and in this is the charm of your action, that you care very little about what the consequences of the non-acceptance of pension reform will be, you don't care about the fate or pensioners, or those workers who are against it, because they think they're right, but they demand a branch that they sit on or that would allow them even higher pensions than they would get under this law if there was enough money. None of the opponents of this story have told us where we will take to pay pensions without changing the system of providing pension funds. No one suggested a solution and didn't say where. On credit, however, pensions will not be able to continue to be paid. You couldn't even tell the jobs how they were done. That's what you're talking about, it's a floscule, and we can all talk about the need for jobs, but how to do it overnight, but you can't. What I'm saying is that I'm opposed to destructive activity, I'm opposed to an atmosphere that's trying to show itself like everything's wrong, but it's not that bad. Most of our people are not in a worse position than they were before the crisis, and the unemployed are being taken care not to be hungry, the country is doing what it can to preserve the social state. But to expect to share gold hours at a time when there is no place to take it, is to throw sand in the eyes of people who I think will sooner or later miss this game of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u32	Thank you. If life were really that simple, then I would fully agree with you. But, Mr Žnidaršič, allow me to list some indisputable facts to refresh your memory. The referendum on small work, which was so resounding and marked by very high participation for the referendum, did not require SDS, but it was a requirement of student organisations, also supported by trade unions, because you have disrupted social dialogue in the coalition and we have warned of this. And we also drew attention to this when you saw before Parliament the continuation of social dialogue with other means and then repaired the poles for the next fourteen days. That was because you played social partners. Some, such as doctors in the negotiations, because you are a doctor yourself, you know that you have even explicitly imposed. They trusted, followed some of the solutions in the legislation, and then you accepted exactly what you promised you would not. In the referendum on pension reform, which you all fear the most and which you all say is crucial, this referendum was not required by the SDS. No, no, no, no, no! It was demanded by the unions, and so they collected signatures, far over 40,000 signatures. Since I once organized such a gathering, I know how much work it takes to sacrifice individuals who do it on the ground. This is not easy to achieve. Anyone who claims to collect this stuff just doesn't know what he's saying. The commitment given by faith in some ideals, in some values, is really needed, and this is where the values of social dialogue, the failed social partnership, which you have played in the coalition, and that is why trade unions have today submitted their signatures. And all of this is attributed to us as the opposition, but it's a little too bad. And those referenda would be, anyway, whether we want it or not. The referendums would be because of your conduct. And now there will be an opportunity to hold two referendums on the same day and avoid any additional costs. And for those of you who have very difficult memories of some things, let me repeat some facts. After the formation of the current coalition and after the formation of its government, we proposed cooperation in the opposition, because we had waited in vain for the proposed arm by the ruling coalition, not the other way around, as you have now stated. Just go look back a little bit, you might even have this honestly wrong in your memory, but you turned it all upside down. We in the opposition have offered to continue the partnership for development. It was rejected. Even a few more ridicules were received in this House when we pointed out that it is not good for us to have a difficult time when such a partnership would be so much more meaningful and we wanted to work constructively together. And even after you refused to do so, we still offered solutions, laws, measures. You have rejected everything, including those who would not have cost the taxpayers a single euro, would have saved something for small and medium-sized enterprises. And you, Mr Žnidaršič, have also rejected this, voted against our proposals. Go take a look, even for those who don't have any money. And today that you're saying it, I'm sorry, but this one's a little too heavy. It's a matter of values. And once again, it's good that all these referenda will be on the same day. And on the same day, we will be able to decide on the values of social dialogue in the law on pension reform, on the same day we will be able to decide on Slovenian traditional values in deciding on the law that prohibits neighbouring aid, and on the same day we will be able to decide on fundamental European values when we decide on a law that restricts access to the archives of the secret political police.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Replica mags. Franz Gniedarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Grimes, as regards social dialogue, I agree with you. I myself have warned that it is not good that they have not talked to the social partners to the end. I have repeatedly warned about this, so I have no bad conscience about it, because I am in favour of getting as far and as much and as thoroughly as possible to reach a compromise. As far as pension reform is concerned, I didn't tell you that you started the referendum, but I said you voted against it. And of course how? [[...]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u35	Go on, Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u36	I want to say that I do not accept the perceptions regarding the partnership for cooperation. I didn't negotiate with anyone, and I wouldn't encourage anyone or ask for it. Of course, I am sure that at least opposition to such things as pension reform was not, but O.K. You think that it is necessary to oppose everything and that everything should be shown as black as possible. That's what I've been warning you about, and I don't agree with. It is clear that we can have different views, but I only want to remain at the level of open dialogue on these issues and I am still firmly convinced that it is right that we have accepted this reform, although we would have, and I have also proposed a different, slightly nicer solution with regard to the speed of making changes. But what it is is. The law can still be corrected if it turns out to be in the wrong direction, but provided it is adopted. If he's not accepted, then it can't be fixed after my year, two. And that's what worries me, nothing else. I'm not going to make any more noises. Maybe I'll add another thought to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Jakob President.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As I know and read, item 1 of the agenda of the Proposal for a decree on the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum. We have a decree written somewhere in three, four points. And I haven't heard from you this evening that anyone would even mention a decision, let alone debate a decision. I remember well because I already have a few kilometers in the National Assembly that years ago, when the decree was being considered, we had to talk about the decree, otherwise the presidents took every word. And if I say anything else about the issue of values. Today is a big Thursday, and obviously we will still be dealing on a big Friday, betting on the left, on the right, on the top and down, instead of quickly deciding on these two decisions, which are on the agenda, and we have another short third point, and we would finish the matter. You know, citizens and citizens already have a suitcase full of our bets, instead of talking about serious things that are important for development, for the Slovenian economy and for the life of all people in Slovenia. I propose that we discuss the decision, tell citizens and citizens when they will go to the referendum and finish the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u39	Thank you very much. A very good procedural proposal that I cannot put to the vote. Even if he was voted, we wouldn't stick to him. Therefore, I am really reminding you to stick to at least about the topic that you are starting the content of the referendum only as much as necessary. Of course, I think that some strict link between this debate and the text of the decree has proved to be unproductive and as a restriction on speaking in this House. I recall this from my previous mandate, which is why this discussion is still a little wider, but I suppose people can limit themselves and stay within the frameworks that are set. We continue with the first debater. That's Sylven Majechnik. Please, Mr. Tiny, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. President, colleagues, colleagues! The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives was adopted in the National Assembly by a vote of 4 February 2011. The applicant for the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum notes that the law does not follow the Resolution on European Consciousness and Totalitarianism adopted by the European Parliament on 2 April and that the National Assembly, after the decision of the coalition majority, has only become aware of it. The request for a legislative referendum shall be submitted on the basis of a request from a third of the Members. The referendum issue is clear and expected, as the amendment of the law closes access to the publicly accessible archival material of the former secret political police, which should contain data from security and intelligence services and sensitive data from the point of view of the national security assessment. For the first time in the history of Slovenia, the state authority has made a public declaration that it will not respect the law and then unlawfully restrict civil rights. It must be said that the review of the archive was also prevented by the Commission of the National Assembly, which is exercising parliamentary oversight of the Owl. Doing so is also a responsibility for individuals in the parliamentary world and requires responsibility in the rule of law, because it is a matter of will and abuse of the situation, because the law does not allow it. The estimates that early disclosure of data could endanger the country's important interests and directly expose the criminal prosecution of certain individuals who had cooperated in various ways with intelligence, counterintelligence services were not to be feared as it was the Parliamentary Commission of the National Assembly. The government reacted and introduced the law after the illegal acts already committed by the Director of Sova and the Director of the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, for which, as has already been said, they had no legal basis. In fact, it is not clear who is hiding and who is benefiting from it, since it is essentially archives of the former secret police which operated within the framework of the SFRJ until 1990 in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The law in force was clear in Article 55 as it stipulated that the material of the former State Security Service must be delivered to the Slovenian Archives within one year of the law being enacted, which had not happened. In 2007, an expert working group was appointed, which by 2008 arranged for the formal submission of the documentation of the Slovenian Archives, which has never physically happened and is still in the premises of the Owl. The working group has also discovered a number of irregularities and illegalities in the operation of the Owl, which was in some way to be expected, as operating in a very wide area could not stop overnight and will not stop for a while, depending on how the matter is rooted and how much influence the former botts have over today’s ruling authority today. Surely no one wants the story and influence of the Judgment to be repeated, for the Supreme Court judgment of 23. 5. 2002 was based on an explanation of the former secret political police of the SDV, which not only dealt with intelligence tasks, but also organised various criminal activities and carried out them deliberately. As a rule, it was political opponents of the then regime, which generally did not have the option of rehabilitation, so it would be right to disclose such things, because these are matters that are time-faring, but are still important for historians and affected. It takes time to correct injustices, for this should not be an obstacle and a fear of something that should not be happening, and these things must be closed by law for ever and leave the matter in doubt for several more decades. Preventing access to archives that are 40 years of age or older is certainly against all the rules and laws already in force. Article 65 of the Act is clear enough in all four points and has sufficient safeguards to prevent individuals from harming national security as well as individuals who have cooperated with the SDV in favour of the security of the State of Slovenia, in particular the fourth paragraph, which states that access to archival materials is decided by the archival commission. In the Slovenian National Party, we support people at the referendum to judge and decide whether the law is acceptable to most Slovenians, so I support the decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Andrey Magain has the word. Get Tadej Slapnik or Majda Potrat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u42	If there will be a referendum on this issue on the same day as the other two referendums, there will be no specific costs foreseen, however, it is likely that viewers and voters will wonder why. I can ask myself, even though I'm one of the signatories. Perhaps today's session and even the referendum would not be if there were no researcher, publicist Igor Omerza and his intentions after the enlightenment of a certain historical period. I read his book about Kocbek with interest. She sparked many controversy and comments, not everyone agreed with his view of the period and the character of Edward Kocbek and his role in the history of NOB. I'm curious about history, but not so much as looking after events 20, 30 years ago, or going to an investigator or a persecutor. History is interesting in as much as it responds to or marks the present. It would probably not be this meeting if someone did not submit a law in parliament in an hasty manner. That's when I asked myself why. What happened? I was beginning to wonder why such a panic was happening. What's it gonna reveal? Won't it come out? Maybe there wouldn't be anything. Neither would this session and this referendum. It was one of the original mistakes that we came to this debate at all. We are changing most of the laws, as we know, here in Parliament because we are working them in haste because we are reckless. And we could also accept this with some greater consideration and responsibility. We would have come up with a better law, and it probably had to be changed, and there would have been no such debate today. And even if I was talking about Kocbek, his title to the book of Fear and Courage, I don't know if after 20 years of democracy we still face the past with fear. Why is that? I don't know.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u43	Alexander Zorn has the word. I missed him before. Get Tadej Slapnik ready and then Majda Potrate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I'll listen to Mr. President and talk about the verdict. But that's the story of the decree. One official found that the archive law was unconstitutional and closed access to archives without being questioned by the Constitutional Court. And then this same Constitutional Court ruled that it would allow a referendum to access archives or open archives, which means that only the Constitutional Court had lied to him. Because it's equivocal to the laws, and we're a legislative body, it's an outstanding problem for us. And if it is also said that our people in Slovenia need everything else than the story of the past, let me tell you that animals have a memory, not only of humans, and that this past is still important, because it was obviously given by the Ministry of Culture as its priority, as mentioned by the Minister in the Committee on Culture during the hot debate. It stated that the editing of archives is a priority in this mandate of the Ministry of Culture. So much for that. But speaking of which, the formality of the matter is perfectly clear. Only the Constitutional Court has lied to the proposer, and I'm wondering if this is what's about to come out of it. Are there any reactions? What's gonna happen? It is said that this story is formally concluded, and to talk about it today, whether it is right to have a referendum or not, is pointless. On the other hand, Mr Presecnik, the one drawn by this formal side and this decree is substantive. We're not talking about anything. We're talking about the secret police, we're calling it the Rise, and elsewhere in the socialist lahar, it's called a different Securitate, and so on. These are criminal political police. And from them came many woes. Let me remind you that by closing the archives here, we are protecting these companies and protecting the old actors of these companies. And if it's political abuse, then it's political abuse. Closing archives means closing the memory of criminal societies, which is very undemocratic, unseemly. We all know that the Uda has dealt not only with terrorism but also with international crime. And when we heard a story about how some actions have taken place since the old undemocratic regime and also deep in our time, we heard this as an excuse for why these archives need to remain closed in order to not harm Slovenia, I must tell you that this also means that the Ascension has been a strong one in our time and that we should therefore protect it. This is a special reminder to all of us not to do so. And since that's the case, this, my dear colleagues, is a top-notch topic. First-class – correction of guilt. I am warning this because we can also have a voice from the highest peaks about the second-rate victims of this regime, and the Ascension is one of their actors. First-class theme. Despite all economic, social difficulties, this topic cannot be hidden as a priority among all these difficulties and drawn along with all the other things that have suddenly become more important in modern times, so that we will lose it forever. Let me tell you something else. A number of economic stories that have broken down in modern times and are criminal have some backgrounds there in these societies that have been formed there. There's a lot of names there. A lot of people's names are still up to date, and they're probably hiding it. Everything he's hiding is urgent and historically urgent, and once again, I say let it come to day. With this history, we must account for our present, including our economic present, and understand it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potrat, prepare to be Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Well, my fellow Member, President, reminded me of the sometimes established rule, and also taken into account by the presidents, so that the views of the parliamentary groups do not conflict. The demonstration of the controversial speech was quite effective here, but you did not interrupt that one, Mr President. It is also true that it would be possible to speak only in that part if we presented only the views of the groups of Members, then we could insist on discussing the decision. So much for that. But everything has been heard, but it is not possible to react to everything, because it is also not quite accurate if I say that everything has been heard, but I would like to warn you about a few things. This was the last referendum dinner in the previous session, and I associate this with the three referendums that will take place on 5 June. Two of these referenda are at the request of Members. This is evidence of the erosion of parliamentaryism because the parliamentary minority cannot accept what has been adopted in the legislative process. Whether this is also due to the absence of social dialogue, but this is another story, because it is one of these referendums that will allow the law to be confirmed, in agreement with the social partners, but the biggest opposition party, because of the two unaccepted amendments, has decided to apply for a referendum. Okay, we'll have it. We'll have this archive referendum, too, because that's what you've decided. But what's rude about this is that you're reading how we don't deal with problems that concern people. But who dictates the vast majority of those we have to deal with in many urgent sessions? And if we also look at the history of some other things, they show a different picture than was previously said. What about the recognition of the electoral results at the beginning of this term, do you remember, ladies and gentlemen? Do you remember who was the one who showed willingness to cooperate and dialogue, and others wanted to formalize it because they did not believe in the word? Speaking of European values, yes, it's nice, and so many times the European Parliament resolution has been quoted, but read it again. The 6th point, when it comes to opening archives, including archives of former internal security services, secret police and intelligence services, says, "although this should not be used for political purposes." But, excuse me, this is a demonstration of abuse for political purposes. What are we talking about in public? It's just "cloaking and opening archives." It is not said, however, that countries in national legislation have very different rules on how they deal with sensitive data. I don't have time to go into the details, but to think that if someone is the Chairman of the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services or a member of this committee, that everything is already allowed for him and that there is no need to comply with the rules, which is worse than a puff. Because they like to refer to respect for legality, regulations, and other things. So just to think that these things go hand in hand — they don’t — are established rules for how to act. I respect the Constitutional Court's decision. But last night, I also listened to a round table on national television about referendums. And interestingly, only one expert fully agreed to one referendum day. As a rule, however, they had doubts about one referendum day, in particular about how the opposition proposed it, that it should be a date and something else. So not everything is as clean, smooth, uniform as some would like to show. Things are very different and we will really have a chance to see what happens if in the same day people decide on three very different laws. In fact, the Constitutional Court merely stated that a referendum on this law was permitted. People will decide whether or not this law will enter into force at the referendum. Of course, everyone's hoping for their own way. Now there is also something that has been said about the Constitutional Court's decision on continuity and discontinuity. Well, there are people in this hall who have once been in the service of authorities called otherwise, as they are today called, who probably consider themselves credible persons, and there is no issue in their conduct. Mr. Bavčar also wrote on the website "from SDV to VIS to... ?".. Yes, what else does this address refer to as being a line in all of this, because it is likely that all security and intelligence services share in the fact that, at the time they operate, they work for the benefit of the state and its citizens and not some abstract organised group of people. So it seems to me that you have embarked on such a path as is easy to obtain at the level of demagogism and manipulation, because if you ask a person just like that without knowing what is being said, whether anyone is for the archives to be accessible or not, of course any normal person will say that it seems normal for him to get to the archives. But if everything was so hidden, if everything was really unreachable, if there really wasn't a lot of knowledge about what had been wronged before to individuals, yes, why would individuals then have exercised rights under the law on the correction of wrongs, but not only did they achieve moral satisfaction, but they also received in a number of cases a considerable amount of material compensation. Therefore, it is also necessary to have a sense of measure when we are discussing these matters. As it is said, I do not object to what the Constitutional Court has decided, but I will make the same decision as I have already done in the Employment Prevention and Work Act, that as a Member I have had the opportunity to express my opinion, even to vote on it, so I do not see any particular need for a decision to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u47	Thank you very much. He has the word Zvonko Černač, to prepare Dara Lavtišar Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u48	The new Law on Archives is unnecessary, is unconstitutional and unfortunately the referendum is the only means to prevent the entry into force of a bad and unnecessary novel. What will be the concrete consequences of deciding on three topics on the same day? Very direct. If there were five of them, they'd be even more. If you were not as foolish as you were, you would save taxpayers 16 million euros, so you will save eight. These will be the concrete consequences of deciding on three matters on the same day. More than once, it has been said that it is not the opposition or the SDS that is responsible for bad decisions for bad laws. That's the responsibility of the authorities. However, the opposition, in this case the SDS, is responsible for doing whatever laws and constitutions allow them to prevent the enforcement of the bad or, in this particular case, even of the unconstitutional decisions. We now have a law that is supposed to be in force and apparently is not in force. Disobedience of the law, however, is a first-class topic. And this lack of respect for the law goes on for more than half a year. For more than half a year, a law that allows access to these archives is not implemented and no one is responsible for it. No one demands responsibility for this, including the President of the State, for the rule of law in that country to be respected. And that is undoubtedly a first-class topic, regardless of the time in which we are discussing it. And it would be time for this erosion of the rule of law to end. If this rejection at the referendum will help a small stone to do so, this referendum was more than justified. You're talking about the abuse of the Institute of Referendum. About the abuse of something that's written in the constitution. So also forty-four thousand voters and voters who disagree with the inadequate so-called pension reform abuse the right to a referendum in your opinion. I'm asking you very nicely. Really, it's a late hour. It would be about time for you to get real and start exercising what the electorate has elected you to do. So thank God that at least so much judgment has prevailed that you will not needlessly spend eight million taxpayers' money, that people have the opportunity to decide on three matters for one day.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u49	Thank you. Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Mr Žnidaršič or Rožej should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Those Members that we have approved and adopted the law have come from the view that this proposed novel is more likely to prevent the possible misuse of sensitive personal data obtained by violating human rights and fundamental freedoms. Those requiring a referendum on this novel immediately gave us the impression that we want to hide from the public all the misdeeds and abuses by the former Udba and other repressive authorities in the former regime. This is a typical manner of the signatories to the request for a referendum. As is the case with the SDS as the main government party in the previous term, it has itself behaved in two ways on this issue. Not to mention how clearly they showed their true colors when they produced and falsified or purposely miscalculated the relevant archival materials in order to mislead our public regarding the alleged role of today's President, Dr. Türk, in the assassination in Veliovac in September 1979. And today, when — as if they were quoting the Constitutional Court’s decision rejecting the request of the National Assembly — they falsely and misleadingly declare that the Constitutional Court had given them that the amendment of the law was inadequate or even inconsistent with the Constitution. But it's a waste of words! Should I literally quote here what the Constitutional Court actually wrote down in the decision? It doesn't make sense, but it's short. The Constitutional Court simply finds that the National Assembly has not sufficiently substantiated and reasoned on the alleged anti-constitutional consequences, but that it has claimed them only abstractly without specifying them. In the opinion of the Constitutional Court, the National Assembly did not address it with a convincingly reasoned request and decided in favour of it, when weighing between such a reasoned request and the meaning of the referendum. How you simplify things and how little you care about the question of whether or not you can come under the applicable law of abuse, you also state that the law on the protection of personal data is already sufficient to achieve our purposes and the novels under consideration are not necessary at all. Well, what would you be told about the function of so-called lex generalis or lex specialis, that would certainly be too much, even though you are sitting in the highest legislative body in this country. And the referendum itself. Who asked for it? Who could have saved the taxpayer's money? Let me be clear: the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian National Party. You're the one who's asking for this referendum, and you're willing to spend your tax money. Well, it's no surprise to us, too, already some year ago, your president in a group of journalists claimed that from now on you would use all the options available, such as referendums, both interpretations, both constitutional accusations, regardless of the price, and if everything falls to the ground. In short, Raison d'etre doesn't matter to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr Rožej has the floor to prepare Mrs Črnugelj or Mr Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. The request for this referendum, as had already been the case before, should have been made because there is no hearing because there is no dialogue because there is no cooperation because there is no mutual respect because there is no partnership. I think it was quite early in this call to Parliament when we had the opportunity to see how some imagine partnership, how some imagine responsibility, how some imagine state-of-the-artness, how some imagine the reputation of that country abroad. Offering any partnership after blackmailing the rude, vile and unrelated things, let's say voting on the entry of a Member State into NATO, which is also a member of Slovenia, and from then on everything stops. Who's moving around here? Who's here with the fig in his pocket? Who cares and cares about the international reputation of this country? Was it a coalition or was it one of the opposition parties? She was one of the opposition parties. The SDS was this, and it clearly showed that all these promises about partnership, offers, benevolence with figs in your pocket, sand in your eyes. From then on, I think it is also impossible to talk about these 63 proposals for a solution to the crisis that has been unheard of. Why? Even two thirds of the old ones proposed were contrary to European directives, and of course you didn't care much. To give any argument, counter-arguments to these populist and demagogic demands fruitless; with repeated repetition, the lie would become the truth. I have to say, I'm always having fun when my colleague Grims is talking about a puff, maybe it'd be better to look in the mirror. What we are all discussing today is that the referendums will take place on the same day and at the same time regret that this Parliament has not yet passed the referendum day. They must also know that there are different types of referendums, that one is subsequent, legislative, one is consultative. As far as consultation is concerned, there is no problem, of course everyone could be on the same day, although the proposal in the National Assembly was flawed, at least to the extent that it did not allow for a referendum day, a referendum on consultations to be held in order to be understood, even at the time of each such or other election: European, local or national. As far as these referendums, which we know about – later legislative ones, since we no longer have previous legislative ones – there are two options: one is subsequent rejections, one is subsequent confirmations. Our subsequent confirmatory, sovereign, so until the people subsequently confirm the law at the referendum, this law does not apply. Neighbouring Italy, for example, knows the subsequent rejection, the law applies until it is rejected at the referendum. If we knew such a possibility, and in this direction we could also take initiatives after the amendment of the legislation and, if necessary, the constitution, perhaps it would be easier to do something and even a referendum day would be easier to implement. But the purpose of these proposals was certainly not to really unite in this country with regard to the implementation of the referendums. The purpose was another, and the purpose was mentioned several times before, because of this fundamental premise of non-stateism, the collapse of everything – behind me is the flood or "après moi, only the lengths" in the style of Ludvik, the Sun King – but these things are irrelevant. Also, the law that is scheduled to go to the referendum today is not, as you claim, unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court did not say anything about this; it merely stated that in the event of rejection there would be no unconstitutional consequences. Although I can agree with my colleague, that it is a lack of respect for the law, I do not know exactly now whether he was talking about a personal case or a state law, that it is a first-class topic – let's leave his family stuff to it. As of course, failure to respect the Constitution is a first-class theme. But to say that by voting against today's vote we would express some fundamental violation of the Constitution, after we rejected the Ankaran Act yesterday, which was also tabled on the basis of a constitutional judgment, I think it is at least two-faced, if nothing else. None of the coalition's discussers, at least I didn't hear him today, claimed that the requirement of 40,000 voters for a referendum would be any abuse of the Institute. Of course not, because it's a reversion of facts. We have always said that these initiatives alone seem legitimate. The requirement of the minority part of Parliament is something that is a Slovenian specification; in addition to Denmark, where "there is something rotten" as you like to say, and then you draw the analogy to Slovenia. This analogy holds right here. This is an exception that will obviously make us famous in the world. Who is the one who could come true, or on the other hand, who is the one who should clean his ears and when he should hear an argument? These were the main points that at least I had heard from the coalition Members. I therefore think that this debate, not only on this, but also on the next referendums, will be even more varied. However, I think that the solutions that could be achieved together if they could be used together, but especially if they really wanted the referendum to be that tool of the people that would not be abused, but would be used when it is absolutely necessary. In the meantime, we will be a representative parliamentary democracy. For the time being, we are obviously only partially or partially disabled, and we will attribute the blame to one another, and to another, as usual, the truth is somewhere in between. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u53	Thank you. Mrs. Montenegro has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. It is really hard to be smart at this hour, as one of our colleagues told us when they tell us that we are spending tax money — I don’t know how and how. It is also likely that it is in some way a waste of taxpayer money, when we have to decide on a matter that is so clear and certainly repeated a hundred times, how and in what way things should be done and debated. In fact, I was thinking of saying something today about archival material and I have prepared quite a lot of literature, but since the minute is so modestly measured, I don't think it will be necessary, because there will probably be an opportunity to tell you what archives in Slovenia really need, given that the new generation of electronic data processing requires far more money and it would certainly be far better to use this money for new modern methods of processing this material and it would not be possible to have any similar problems and I don't know any problems that have occurred in the past with photocopying material and so on. But, say, flood, erosion, and I don't know what else we've heard, and who has the right colors and who doesn't have the right color. You know, the one who actually wants to do something really works and doesn't work out of an elephant fly. The ruling, however it may be, I think it will be difficult to say no, and it will be difficult to confirm. The dilemma is eternal, only I don't agree to spend tax money because I know how hard it is to get it right in institutions like archives, libraries, indoc centers, culture and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr Saiovic has the floor to prepare Mrs Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The referendum will be, the Constitutional Court has decided relatively fast, short and concise. I don't support him myself, and neither will my vote for the referendum. I told my parents, and I also decided when the law was needed. I think that the legal solution was appropriate that the archives in Slovenia are sufficiently accessible, sufficiently open. I am more concerned about how these referendums are seized in the history of independent Slovenia; of course, the responsibility for the referendum is taken by those who requested it, and here the responsibility of opposition parties is clear. But theirs and ours will be clear. Let's look at history. We even have a bunch of referendums behind us, and almost everyone was measuring political power, prestige, political conflict, because more than the contents and decisions of the referendums were important political consequences, public opinion creation and more. We have a bunch of referendums. Remember the trade, and the shameful fertilization — that is, the disgraceful result — of women with biomedical help and some more pearls would be found. In these stories, however, I am most concerned when political analysts say that so far we share Slovenia and Slovenia mainly in relation to World War II in one way or another. Since the story has been decades behind us, it was necessary to find a new toy in politics, a new hunger bone that would share and fight people, and there was a story before, during and immediately after the self-serving war. Instead of being, after 20 years of this story, where we have shown excellent respect for the value of unity, instead of being our message, commitment, consolidation, pride for the future, it has become a political clearing ground, because it is somewhere closer and more appropriate. Like all stories in life, there is certainly something positive, but something is also wrong. Personally, I don't mind if after 20 years things are reviewed, opened, and if we learn something further from the error analysis. There are a number of democratic countries in the world that are opening up archives substantially earlier, some even later, but it is important why and for what purpose we are opening them. The goal of this moment on the surface is certainly not worth giving a vote for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u57	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj has the floor. Get Mrs. Pecan ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Dr Igor Luksic said that if we want to save the country and the political system, we need to agree before him to change the constitution and stop people's involvement in legislation. That's what the minister of this government says, and that's what this government does, so it's no wonder that you're falling apart because you've forgotten about the people and those you've been elected from and shouldn't get involved in yours. This country is based on the incorporation of people into legislation. On the plebiscite, people decided that they no longer wanted to live in an undemocratic state, a country that had trampled on human rights, condemned without trial, and so on. In the name of the future, if we want this to be bright and positive, the past must first be cleared up. Therefore, archives must be open, accessible, and even archives of the secret police, criminal organisations, to write history by historians, just as it happened, not as it was sold by dedicated historians today. I will, of course, support the decree, but I am interested, given that the representative of the ministry on the committee said that they would be silent on this campaign, or that means that you will not report an election campaign and save the budget 100,000 euros, which would be very commendable in these difficult times. I will, of course, support the decree. I must say that I am also pleased with the fact that we will decide on several referendums on a single day, that we will not have to say to people how it is not clear to us that we can decide on three things for one day, but we call them to referenda several times. So it's right that it's true on one day, and on that referendum day, we decide on a number of things.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u59	Thank you. Mrs. Pecan has the floor. Get Mr. Jurša ready. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Brultz. [[He's quitting.]] Then it's Dr. Gorenak's turn. All right, we'll see who it is. Here you go, Mrs. Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. As with all requests for a referendum launched by the Group of Members, in this case Members of the SDS and the SNS, I will press the quorum key because I believe that those who request the referendum, except when it comes to signatures by citizens and citizens, should also take responsibility and also take a decision on the call for a referendum. That way, people will know who's after them for completely pointless things to vote for. By the way, I must say that I have listened to long tirades today, both for this speaker and also from the bench, about how the Council of Europe adopted a resolution or recommendation in 2000 that all archives should be opened. But you have to tell me what it really says. This is a recommendation indicating the need to open archives, but adds that public access to archives is allowed to be restricted in order to protect sensitive personal and classified data. Legislation in most Eastern European countries, Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, provides that the material of the former secret political police relating to intelligence matters may be kept confidential and stored either separately within the archival institutions in charge of its storage or in the services they still need. Procedures shall be laid down for the determination of such material, the responsible person for the decision, the conditions of emergency accessibility, the termination of the level of confidentiality of such material. The possibility of closing material for similar reasons is explicitly mentioned even for the material of former Stasi, whom we know to be anything other than our State Security Service. By the way, I would like to mention that the law, which was really adopted in the previous term and which essentially opened archives, was limited by a government regulation signed by the President of the former government – which has just entered the "miracle or strange" chamber – with which access to archival material was expressly limited. So now it's purely conceivable to demand the opening of all archives without any limitation, because you yourself closed those archives three, four years ago; and not even by law, but by ordinary government regulation. Finally, it is understood that the one who signed the regulation did not even know what he was signing. So once again: let’s be honest with each other, and let’s admit that because you want to get to the materials that you can then fold as you want, and because you want to make these materials a little bit different, you want people to push for a referendum, so that they can make decisions about things that they don’t care about at all. They don't care what happened many years ago, but they want to know what happens to them tomorrow. But you are concerned that it will be as bad as possible, because today your password is: as bad as possible, the better.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has the floor. You're giving up?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u62	Mr. Vice President, I'm giving up because it's a late hour, and we've got six and a half hours to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u63	Thank you. Does he still want a government representative? [[No, no, ……]] Mr Grimes, as your candidate, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u64	Thanks again. Regardless of the late hour, however, the subject of values is a valuable subject, for any policy should always be based on values. Just because you don't respect values, you've triggered so many requests for referendums yourself. Social dialogue, ladies and gentlemen, is also one of the fundamental values of this country, I say that it is even based on a constitutional provision, one proposed by Dr Jože Pučnik, which is now included in the Slovenian Constitution and which highlights the social function not only of the State but also of property. Because of this, ladies and gentlemen, because it is a matter of values, I ask you to do something different, not to make fun of yourself on the one hand. Today, when we discussed earlier electronic communications, whose development is an important development issue and on this line your government has been limping for two years to be a horror, you were not in this Chamber. You weren't in this room, including that lady who was just so loud. Also, the famous Member who always cries out that it is necessary to be at work and earn money was not in this Chamber. In fact, there was none of the ruling coalition but the one who conducted the meeting on duty. Very interesting. At the time when it is necessary to share the spoils, then all the ruling coalition is here, just as it was when you were transferred to the Golobic Ministry of Electronic Communications. That's when you voted everything, just like you always did. But when you have to face the consequences of your own conduct by not respecting the fundamental values, then you go out! We are also speaking in truth today only and exclusively about values, three times. When we talk about the issue of the accessibility of the archives of the secret political police, we are talking about the fundamental values on which modern united Europe has emerged. It has expressed its values very clearly, unequivocally in the European Parliament's Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which I am pleased to repeat in Article 6, as it very clearly points out the controversy of attempts to restrict access to material and in particular emphasises access to the material of the secret political police and also points out the possibility of political abuse; such as your attempt to prevent this unlawfully and unconstitutionally, because now that the Constitutional Court has clearly ruled that there can be no unconstitutional consequences if this law is not enforced if the referendum is rejected, it is also clear that an official under your government has allowed himself to violate the law and to restrict access to some material unlawfully. I wonder if someone will be responsible for this now, because the next step is probably to stop the police from testing people for alcohol — yes, because it also interferes with their human rights, they already know! As this official permitted, now the Constitutional Court has placed him in the position he is in. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, where will now be the question of responsibility that you always have so full of mouth. Speaking of values. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe you are in a hurry to vote, but the vote will be on June 5th, but until then we can explain a number of arguments. For example, not only about the values that are specifically covered by this issue. But since some of you are already speaking of the symbolism of the great Thursday, let me also warn you that the symbolism of the great Thursday is here, for the entire Christian world on this day celebrates the symbolism of the last supper. You have cooked your last dinner yourself by denying the fundamental values, values of the European Union – in this case the value of social communication, social dialogue – and therefore the referendum on pension reform – and the traditional traditional values of Slovenian society – will therefore be a referendum on the law banning inter-neighbourly aid. This, ladies and gentlemen, will be on the menu of the government referendum last dinner you cooked yourself! When it comes to the referendum, why is the referendum so controversial for you, why is it right today to feel this negative, negative charge? Not only today, I would like to recall that shortly after this government came into existence, one of the secretaries of state said, I quote from the memory that the government must act in certain cases so that there will be no disturbance in the exercise of power such as the referendum. This is your understanding of the referendum, this is a disturbance in your exercise of power. Now we come to the point: the referendum in the parliamentary system is the only effective form of power limitation and you are afraid because you are only interested in unlimited authority so that you can do what you want. But I'm sorry, you didn't get this term in the elections, and no one can win this term in democracy with any election, even if 100% gets it. In modern political science, it is always required and expected of every authority to first coordinate each proposal in social dialogue with the social partners, not the way you did, and therefore the referendum will be. Only after some agreement has been reached within the broader framework of civil society with the social partners will it come to Parliament and face arguments with the opposition and listen to them. Not like you, when you rejected all marriage proposals, other acts in favour of the Slovenian economy and all arguments and any amendments that went in the direction of preserving values. Not only traditional Slovenian values, but also those on which the entire European Union is founded! Ladies and gentlemen, such behaviour, when counted by someone to have absolute power, that they can do what they want to, that they can excite themselves into social dialogue to violate it, to reject all proposals [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u65	Please, just take it easy. Mr. Grimes is the only one who has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u66	It belongs in some other place and time. [[...]] This is the Stone Age of Democracy, and this is why we are facing these proposals for a referendum, which is three on the same day. It is good that they will be on the same day, because this will make the decision even more clear and will be a clear message to you. And the very good kind it will be, which is why you are in a hurry to vote. But the whole point of this story is to learn from it, not only for you, but also for all the heirs, that no authority that does so can endure for a long time. That's our problem. This is why we are discussing early elections today. That's why you're leaving power, one by one, one by one, because the situation is what it is, and because of that, ladies and gentlemen, there is such a deep crisis in this country, not from today, but for a long time, because you don't listen to anyone and because you believe that you have all the knowledge and you don't have it! [[...]] Far from it! And because you believe all the values are on your side, they're not. Far from it! What you are proposing here many times and then defending those 571 media cherubs of yours is quite often in conflict with European values, even contrary to them. Sometimes in another European country, even criminal liability can be imposed. Therefore, values are so important and, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it would be good to follow and listen to them! The referendum, which is to be held today or will be decided in a few minutes, must remind us of how it came to be, for it is obvious that many have lost their minds in this regard. In fact, why was it trying to close the archives? It was different a year ago. Another lady who came to the archives, a student, was allowed to look at everything she wanted in the archive. Then came Mr Omerza and asked the question of State terrorism in the Austrian Koroška – during that period. And suddenly there was panic; it suddenly became apparent that it violated human rights, that it was even apparent that it was in violation of the Constitution and that without a legal basis, access to the archives was limited, although it was obviously a study of a person who wanted to process some archival material professionally. What changed so much this time of year? The same authority, the same people, was allowed in one case, and in the other, not anymore. Only one thing was involved: an intervention or a proposal for a constitutional indictment against the President of the country where this particular period was mentioned. Because of this, ladies and gentlemen, this thing raises doubts and it is good for these archives to open up to see what is true and what is not true. Many of you have talked about how individual documents are handled. Some of you have used extremely grave, entirely misleading claims that someone has forged some documents. As far as I am aware, all the documents recently published have been completely original and at least one of the current presidents of the country is firmly lying. But this is now lost in the floods of perceptions, because someone else did not properly define it in the accompanying letter. Very interesting. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u67	Mr Grims, please limit yourself to the subject and do not go outside this area, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u68	precisely because there will be no such doubts in the future that this could not happen at all, it is worth going to this referendum and rejecting the Act on the Closure of Archives. [[...]] Then things will be clean. Everyone will be able to look at what's inside, learn about the facts, be able to do a political analysis, a historical analysis, a legal analysis, and on the basis of facts, a normal debate that is not now possible. However, if there is no debate, ladies and gentlemen, in all the times of society, there is doubts and doubts about the functioning of the system institutions, and the system cannot function normally without confidence in the institutions of the system. That is also why, ladies and gentlemen, these referenda are today, because you know very well that there is doubt as to the functioning of that institution of the system called the government. This one's present, so ask the people.Oh, my God! This government has no legitimacy! A particularly problematic situation is that it does not have legitimacy under difficult economic circumstances. Why doesn't he have one? Also because of your own arrogance. It used to be funny when the representative of Zares talked about a possible partnership. Yes, who was most opposed when we from the opposition offered a hand for partnership, for the development of Slovenia and warned of these difficult circumstances in the world? He was the real deal. Minister Gregor Golobič and Mrs Kresalov, if you like, have already identified themselves against any cooperation with the opposition at the beginning of the government. Of course, we wanted this to be formalized, because you can't believe the word because you proved it yourself when you played the social trust. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u69	Mr. Grimes, be worthy.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u70	the partners. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u71	Be decent, Mr Grims, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u72	That is why you have played a role in the trust of the social partners and, if you like, Mr President, I will give you a case. [[...]] When the legislation concerning the work of doctors changed, it was explicitly promised to them as social partners or their unions that they would not interfere with one article. It is precisely that article here in this House that you are responsible for, Mr President, you have changed with the amendment. This led to severe resistance and disappointment in their union because this trust was played. This is just one example of this kind of act, but this case is very much linked to the Parliament that you are leading. As long as you're warning me about these things. I can also quote it and read it to you if you like. And just for the end. When deciding on these referendums, you are bound to the Constitution. The excuse to take this as a responsibility is irrelevant, especially because at least one of these referendums has proposed a union. We'll decide on him a little later. That's what they say. It's an empty excuse. The point is, obviously, you're not even ready to respect constitutional standards right now. This is something that testifies to your political culture, just like the vehement, endless chatter now that you have finally returned to the parliamentary bench after a full day's absence. Welcome! I hope that, when you vote, you will support the proposed constitutional, constitutional and constitutional decisions that are a reality of constitutional principles.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the proposal for a decision. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposed resolution, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and on Archives. We vote, the vote is on. There are 55 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 4. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, it is to the defence of the request for a legal referendum on the law on deceased and invalidity insurance. The Union of Free Trade Unions is 21. 4. 2011 submitted a request to the National Assembly for an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, EPA 1300-V. In order to further explain the request, I give the floor to the representative of the magi applicant. Baby Semolic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u74	Dear Members and Members, Mr President, you are most welcome! Let me cut to the chase. First of all, the law that's in force. Thus, it must be said that this law, which is in force, is still good in many ways, the reform is still under way, and some results are worth a special warning. The actual retirement age is increasing in Slovenia, and this is important in the pension system. The result is also valuable in the European envy criterion. In women, in the case of workers, the retirement age has actually increased by two years and four months since 2000. These are extremely large numbers compared to many European countries. In the case of men, the actual retirement age increased by 10 months, amounting to 61 years and 10 months in 2010. We are very close, in fact, the equation is with the actual retirement age, say, in Germany for men. So around the panic, the exploitation, the abuse of this trend, which should justify a dramatic intervention — it is not justified. But it is true that we should do everything possible to preserve this trend, of course, in a way that would be friendly to workers. Of course, everything is not well, the escalation of pensions certainly does not, and this needs to be changed; and many more. Thus we do not claim that everything is good; there is a lot to be changed; reform is needed, but certainly different from the one offered in this law. Financing, that's an important topic. It must be said that, in the course of the major crisis, this cash register is relatively stable compared to other cash registers. Indeed, there is a problem worth considering. By 1996 it had not gone from the budget to the dinar; then there were dinars, to the pension register. On the contrary! The liquidity from this treasury was transferred to the budget. What happened this year? By then, the State had reduced the same rate of contribution of 15,5 paid by employers and workers to 8,85 and pledged to keep the difference or deficit out of the budget from then on, since it had introduced the tax on the payment sheet, which, of course, has been gone for a long time. Since then, the budget by force of the law has helped the pension fund, and this is unfair if it is now overlooked and the solution to some problems is sought only for insurers, workers and workers. This figure, which is also in the 2010 ZPIZ report, if the budget contributes to a pension fund of one billion 285 million, is, of course, correct, but it should be known that only 841 million are covered by compulsory insurance rights. So, for those commitments that the State has undertaken to intervene because it has reduced the rate of contribution. Of course, problems may arise in the following year, as the report says that in 2010 the number of old pensioners increased by 14 000 345, and also in the report says why. Among other things, because people were afraid of this reform because they saw what it meant for most workers and workers. Instead of working another month, two years later, many are doing so — no, under the first conditions immediately in peace. So the negative result is already here, and the problems are certainly in the area of financing, just not because of the insurance companies, but because of someone who scared the workers and the workers. Nor is it right to intervene in the system only on behalf of public finances and in order to obtain cheap loans, loans. It's a crime. Guilty and completely wrong! Public debt, the budget deficit did not arise because of the pension system, but it was created, we all know that, for a hundred and one reasons, not because of it. Among other things, it's about borrowing, financing acquisitions and more. But let someone pay the bill because there's somewhere to be saved and it's going to this system. The reference to Greece, Portugal and Ireland is not appropriate, certainly not. There are great differences already between these countries. In fact, Ireland has a retirement age of 64 years, and this is hardly the reason for what is happening in these countries. In Greece, there is a fundamental reason why the French and German banks went to speculative purchases of government bonds with the help of credit rating houses, those now holding the door to our policy. But the EUR 110 billion that Europe has given – now the results show – is absolutely too small to solve. Not enough of these reforms, including Greek, in pension and other areas, Greece has terrible problems. So this certainly isn't the right way to save money, to reach out. But here's the thing. Our relationship is: reform – surely, some things are necessary, but certainly not what is being offered. This is a felony. It is guilty because it does not take account of the situation in the labour market. And these say the following. More than 35% of the unemployed are now over 50 years old. There are already no jobs and there will be no jobs in the future, employers say, especially in the economy, so that they can only employ older workers and workers for three years. There's no jobs. This must be taken into account. For if you set limits for obtaining the right to a full pension, but we know beforehand that this limit is beyond the reach of most, it is unjust. The system must respond to this; it must be subtle, not just those accounting calculations, what is good for public finances. The intensity of work in Slovenia, the intensity of work – here we are at the European Summit. What needs to be said and what needs to be sensitive is not the same meter, 65 years or 43 years of retirement age in Slovenia, given that we do not take into account the following: statistics, research in Slovenia, is convincing, is dramatic. In Slovenia life is very dependent if you are lucky to be educated in higher education. It has been proven that in Slovenia we have a study that, unfortunately, men who have secondary schools or primary schools, because they work because they are forced to, because they start working immediately, live on average for 7 years less. So seven years less they're getting their pension. Setting a meter for everyone at 65 or 43 years of age is unfair. It turns out for those who are lucky that we were educated; it turns out for those who were lucky that we were not unemployed. But these are getting smaller, certainly not a majority group in Slovenia. There are bone-and-musculoskeletal diseases, including laws. See, not long ago in Slovenia was the law that a man was allowed and had to lift the burdens of up to 50 kg in the workplace. A woman was allowed and had to lift up to 36 kg in companies. That's what's causing the consequences. I mean, you can't see that, so don't see a lot. At the same time, we have young people waiting for work. If they get a job, 80% of them are dirty jobs, from today to tomorrow, with uncertainty – you can't create a family. And then we're surprised about birthrates! Young people, even if they wanted to, do not have the minimum security to make this happen. In short, we don't think the solution is to marry older people and threaten them with little ones. The solution is in new jobs, well-paid jobs to fill this cash register through contributions. By the way, gentlemen, who are so pressing, so that one feels that we have already lost sovereignty in front of these credit houses, at the International Monetary Fund, which puts such pressure on Slovenia – if you are employed in this fund, at 50 years of age you have the right to retire, with little ones, of course, but with those salaries it is not the problem of the maluses. At 62, if you're busy, you have a full pension. And these gentlemen are putting pressure on us to go on those 65 years on behalf of what? And in the end, just a brief quote from economist Galbraight. He said: "In the crisis it is necessary to enable older workers to retire if they want to, but not to compete with young people for a job they probably will not get. By withdrawing older people from the labour market, we can create an opportunity for young workers. That's the point of the problem. Now we have a complete blockade on the employment of young people who are desperate to stay at universities and study in the worst possible conditions, only to avoid open unemployment." Therefore, this will also result in public finances – I conclude with this. There will be more and more older unemployed. There's no way that a 60-year-old would get a job, so if you put a condition of 65 years, there's gonna be more disability pensions and more and more hospitals. This hope of getting a job is moving away for young people too. In short, we have given out 43 000 790 signatures, these signatures are binding, these signatures show that people want to make such important reforms. I ask you to do the same with your decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u75	Thank you very much. With regard to this requirement, we will consider the proposal for a decree on the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which was prepared and submitted to the National Assembly by the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. In order to further explain the motion for a decision, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer to the Vice-President of the Committee, Ljub Germić. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, President of the Union for Freedom of Unions, Colleagues and Colleagues! The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is at its 28th emergency session. 4. In 2011, he considered the requirement of more than 40,000 electorates and voters to call for a legislative referendum on the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, and on the basis of Article 169a and Article 171a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly without discussion adopted the Proposal for a Decree on the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which he sent to the Assembly for its consideration and adoption. As an explanation of that proposal, we state that more than 40,000 voters and voters are on the 21st day. 4. 2011 submitted a request to the National Assembly for an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, adopted by the National Assembly on 23 December 2010. On the basis of the Law on the Referendum and the Disability Initiative, the National Assembly shall call for a referendum within seven days of the submission of the request for a referendum. In accordance with the same law, it lays down an act on the invitation to referendum a type of referendum, an act to be decided on at the referendum, the text of the question to be raised at the referendum, the date of the referendum and the day of the vote at the referendum. In accordance with Article 33 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative from the date of the invitation to tender, this is 23 April 2011, until the date of the vote shall not exceed 30 days and not more than one year. The date of the vote, until which more than 45 days have elapsed since the date of the referendum, shall be adopted by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority of the Members present. In view of the above, the National Assembly may, by a simple majority, determine for the day of the vote at least 30 days and a maximum of 45 days from the date of the invitation to tender. On this basis, the voting day shall be Sunday, 5 June 2011. The Act of Call for Referendum must be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 30 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the Government for an introductory presentation of the opinion. Dr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, Mr Semolic! Today we are talking about a referendum on a new law on pension and disability insurance, which is a legitimate form of citizens' decision-making and reflects one of the more important aspects of democracy. Nevertheless, the question arises as to the appropriateness of the decision-making method in the referendum on such matters, which are generally subject to the political accumulation of points, demagogies and the manipulation of facts. The new pension legislation is too important for Slovenia and Slovenia and for the development of the country to try to explain the consequences of possible rejection. Therefore, we will strive to bring people’s solutions as close as possible and to show the positive effects of the new law. For decision-makers in the referendum, our most important message of the new law is that future pensioners will have higher pensions for 40 years and 38 years. As it may be, some wonder. This will be possible if the activity is extended for two to three years, and we will still not have the strict conditions of retirement that many other countries have. The existing law, which was also signed by the unions in 2000, stipulated at the expense of retirement at a lower age that pensions would continue to decline, resulting in two major problems. The first is the excessive number of early retirements and the second too low pension. Without overcoming these irregularities over time, it will be totally no matter how long you worked, how long you worked, and if you paid your contributions, the pension would be minimal, but you cannot survive with it. This law does not bring higher taxes and higher contributions, which some believe could save pension insurance. This is a bad solution that can lead to even greater crisis for Slovenia. Additional tax administrations and higher contributions reduce the country's competitiveness and lead to job termination, thus unemployment and poverty. This can be observed these days when some companies from Slovenia are fleeing. Retiring unemployment is not the right way, because for one pensioner we have to hire two workers and only one job can be empty. With that, there's no place to take the other half of the pension that someone should pay for it. The Ministry has always sought to include a number of initiatives and proposals from trade unions and other public in the preparation of new pension legislation, so the new law also contains a more accessible transition for those with long retirement years, a shorter accounting period for the calculation of pensions, a 20% bonus for the extension of work activities, a reduction in contributions for employees of older workers and for the employment of young people for an indefinite period of time. The adoption of the law is more human-friendly and contains good solutions, preserves solidarity and fairly divides burdens between different generations. If the new pension legislation is rejected, however, we will face extreme pressure on public finances and social transfers, the public sector and pensioners. The austerity measures will be sharp and directly directed at all citizens, either as a reduction in salaries, pensions, child allowances, scholarships and the like, or as an increase in interest rates, which will increase their monthly loan instalments and reduce benefits from insurance and austerity schemes. The question of finance is not just a matter of government cash or banks or anything like that, but it is a question of all of us, those who have credits and we have to pay them. Finally, I would like to stress what is being ignored over and over again in the presentation of these laws. Indeed, the fact that the new law is being implemented gradually and that it is possible to retire on a full pension this year without all deductions by men at 58 years of age and 41 years of age and by women at 55 years of age and 38 years of age of retirement and that this age and retirement period are then raised gradually after four months per year and that this is one of the milder laws regarding transition and the final conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Member of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franc Jurša. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello, Minister! There's no proposal. Unlike other referendum initiatives, in DeSUS, we agree that the content is one that must be confirmed or rejected by the people today. All generations – those who are studying today and will soon enter the labour market, working and retired – should finally say whether pension reform is acceptable to them. All of them are involved in this story, and it is right that they have the last word. In doing so, I believe that, or they will have before them the fact that today's pension system is somewhat rusty and therefore not all the circumstances of today's long-lived society are coming to pass. The second thing that needs to be seen is the fact that neither this reform nor any other option in any case should be a constructive solution to reduce public finances pressure if there are no jobs that are the appropriate source of pensions. If not from the first hands, the media all know that a few days ago there have been numerous guesses and debates at different levels about what to do so that the referendum does not take place. Not only have we stayed on different shores, but we have not been able to avoid a formal referendum in these last moments. Time's up, and the odds are running out. In fact, at the end of last year, neither the party nor the DeSUS Group were already opposed to pension reform, so we closely monitored the setting up of a package of measures that this reform would result in for the pensioners and, of course, for the workers. It is true that we managed to change the original Swiss formula into such a coordination relationship, which is also acceptable for pensioners, but the remaining team in the coalition later decided to play the agreement and freeze the agreed formula for a few years. It also frozen the annual valorisation of pensions in the fights of only 25 %, comparing pensioners with public servants and also forgetting that the funds for this coordination are allocated from state assets through the capital company of pension and disability insurance. In short, the new formula and the freezing of pensions mean only one thing: the level of income of pensioners will decrease, so the social economic situation of pensioners is poor. Here is another important point that concerns us in this reform. We are wondering how to provide jobs due to the extension of work or the higher retirement age and how to create new jobs, so that younger generations can be included in the labour market and at the same time have the safe employment of the older generation. At the mass of 114 thousand unemployed, is it not illustrative to expect that in the future they will have employment for both young and older people, but if the economy does not appear to be recovering? Nor is it possible to ignore the side effects that the extension of work will have on the health status of some groups of workers and, consequently, on the health treasury. Let us repeat the last thing we saw in the Group of Members as crucial to the non-acceptance of reforms or interventions. The State budget, which today is comprehensiblely burdened with pensions, is also left because it has entered the financing of the pension allowance due to a reduction in the rate of contribution for employers and workers still have the same burden. This was also discussed by the proposer. Money should be taken where it is, but if there is too much money abroad, let those who have hidden it there also go after it. Confirmation of this decree means the last formality that Members must carry out today. We will do so in our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by mag. Sarah Wheeler.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, several times before the proposed pension reform, we have also pointed out the incontinence of the current pension system. We all agree in some way that pension reform is necessary, but most of us also agree that it must be acceptable for everyone, both for those who will be employed tomorrow, as for those who want to retire in a month or a year and live a decent life, and for those who are already retired. Surely the biggest problem with the existing pension system in Slovenia is ageing. Early retirement, the late inclusion of young people in regular working relationships and the intolerable payment of contributions to the pension fund, the extension of the retirement age and the raising of an effective working age, as provided for by the new pension law, are certainly not favoured by young people who are not already receiving regular employment and work. Thus, many young people are forced to study for a long time, thus securing income for survival and not to get employment until after the age of 30. Thus, it is certain that employees will not be able to complete the 40-year period of effective employment. Today, the average Slovenian retires at 33 years of effective working age. However, the new law should extend the working time by as much as 10 years. Is it really necessary to extend the working time due to smallpox, or is this only profiting from the state? Retirement and effective working time should be separated, as it is essential to distinguish whether you are employed for 40 years and pay contributions, or whether this country simply recognises a year of study during retirement. In any event, the starting point for retirement should be 40 years of effective working time, except for those with a favourable working life. It is certainly not the workers who are responsible for the poverty of the existing pension fund, but the system which allowed it to be paid for at least EUR 6 billion less in cash from the last 15 years. In 1996, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia agreed to reduce employers' contributions from 15.5% to 8.85%. There have never been such leave for employees, as they still had to pay 15% of their salary, which has resulted in the charging of employers' pockets and, on the other hand, the poverty of the pension register. Thus, between 1995 and 2008, workers paid 16.4 billion euros for their pensions and only 10 billion euros for their employers. It is clear that this year's pension reform should also come due to this reckless move of the country, which will now have to be paid back by workers and pensioners, which is just another proof that capital is forcing a country that is also blindly following it. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we estimate that the entire system of social and pension activities is set up wrongly and irrationally. The state is constantly striving to pay generously various social benefits, support unemployment and higher social rights for the unemployed. Similarly, in some way it protects a company that does not pay pension contributions for its employees, as unpaid contributions are often forgotten, but imposes too long a justification on the courts. The monotonousness and rigidity of the system is only increasing in the area of job creation, in the area of the development of long-term economic development and in the area of employment and the limitation of the payment of social transfers. It is simply not the security of employment in our country or the development of a system for ensuring regular inflows of pension contributions to the pension register, even less, today's generations are uncertain whether they will ever receive a pension, but if they are, what will be their height, if they are worthy of a decent life, or if they will live. The non-payment of contributions to the pension fund and systematic dismissal of workers and the abolition of jobs are obviously not for the benefit of the pension fund and the full reform. I believe that it is imperative to regulate laws that are financially linked to both the pension fund and the entire budget, in particular to regulate payment non-discipline. There is no way to overlook that the state was not so macho to companies where managers were taken over. The banks generously jumped to their aid, and the country generously allowed certain companies to remain in debt for a huge EUR 186 million due to unpaid contributions. In short, the country that should take care of the nation's goods in particular has in the past left up to more than €8 million to the economists, given the unpaid social security contributions of workers. And where did this money end up? In the pockets of the directors who, with the help of the state, filled their own accounts for businesses, they turned on the workers and so many bankruptcys and layoffs began. By adopting legislation such as the proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance, the government is not doing itself any service. Government popularity is declining and people are becoming uninterested and apathetic in emerging situations. We will support the request for a referendum on the law on pension and disability insurance in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u83	The decree will have to be supported. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Say good-bye to everyone again! In 1999, the current Pension and Disability Insurance Act, so-called STIZ-1, was adopted. The 2000 reform has proved to be insufficient, but analysis shows that, even because of the financial and economic crisis, this reform is not sufficient in the short term, and even more so in the medium term. Therefore, if we want to provide, at least on the medium term, a pension scheme that will meet the obligations of its insurers and at the same time be financially sustainable, we believe that the measures envisaged by the law that we will decide on at the referendum are necessary. The result of the law now in force is increasingly lower pensions, which are increasingly pushing certain groups of pensioners, especially older than 65 years of age, to the risk of poverty. The proposal for a law to be decided is based on two key objectives. The first is the financial sustainability of the pension system and the second is to ensure decent pensions for all and to stop the fall of pensions, as more and more of the elderly live on the brink or even below the edge of poverty, which is unacceptable for liberal Democrats. The financial sustainability of the system and the prevention of the further fall in pensions will be achieved by raising the actual retirement age and changing the way pensions are valorised, depending on the demographic situation and the financial and economic situation. At the LDS Club, we support both the core objectives set by the Government in the design of pension adjustments. This law is understood as a search for a balance between the interests of young people who come to the labour market, the middle generation who bear the greatest burden of pensions, and those who are close to retirement, and those who already enjoy earned pensions. The problems of the current pension system have proved to be faster in the current financial crisis than expected, but even without the crisis, the system should be updated within a few years. Predicts show that we are at the edge of the sustainability of the current system in 2020, with 11.2% of the social gross product already earmarked for pension expenditure. In order to cover pensions, however, expenditure from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia will have to be substantially increased. Problems in the Republic of Slovenia are increasing demographic movements, which show that we will have an increasing number of people to pay in the pension register. The ratio between the retired and the working population for a short and medium term will not withstand pressure. Therefore, these relationships need to be changed on both sides of the age curve included in the labour market. This means encouraging older people to remain in a working relationship for a long time and to include young people in the labour market earlier. We therefore expect that the measures will also go towards creating good and well-paid jobs. In the LDS, we support measures in the draft law because we believe they are simply necessary and that we are addressing the right issues and dealing with them properly, while still maintaining solidarity as a fundamental principle and value. In the area of accounting and payment of contributions to the pension register, we support the novelty of the LDS Club, which prohibits the postponement of payments of contributions. The previous solution in the law that allowed this was of good purpose, but unfortunately it was born. Without the employee’s knowledge, someone has approved the postponement of payments of contributions which form an integral part of the salary and which also derives from the rights. In our view, it is only possible to postpone payment if, on the other hand, the State transfers the weight of unpaid taxes and also arranges for the recovery of unpaid contributions. It is very important for LDS that the new law preserves the principle of solidarity, which also shows that the law preserves family, disability and widow's pensions, and that the ratio between the highest and lowest pensions is maintained in the ratio of 1:4 between the lowest and the highest pension. I would like to conclude by reminding you that the whole European Union is facing similar challenges to pension reforms as we have seen here in Slovenia. The European Commission held a public consultation year on pension systems as a result of the ageing of the population, many European Union countries are introducing a reform of the pension system. The aim of both the European Commission and Slovenia by modernising the pension system is to provide citizens and citizens with good and safe pension systems for the future. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, although painful, but urgently needed reform, we will also support it during the referendum campaign, where we will present arguments for its support, because we do not want to see a much more difficult situation in the context of the pension fund, public finances and development opportunities and opportunities of the Republic of Slovenia in the future if the law is rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to everyone, so far as I can tell those who seem to be missing the most here today. It is probably not irrelevant to mention that we had an afternoon meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which adopted a proposal for a decree that we are deciding on today. Where we were expecting a union representative, there was only a great void. Today, in a place where we would expect it to be, there is a void again. I fear that, with the fact that trade union leaders have been so very alerted, that social dialogue has diminished, that their style of social dialogue should not be taken as a rule, then we will probably sit very often so that those who are key in dialogue and with whom it would be wise and wise to negotiate and negotiate, may be watching from afar what is going on or not. Perhaps they are no longer interested in this; perhaps they have already done their work, not considering the consequences of their work. This decree, which we are actually talking about today, sets out date 23; two days from now it should begin. Today, if we do not want to take advantage of this opportunity as the start of an early campaign, it is probably enough to summarize just a few basic things about this bill and referendum. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, as well as everyone else, we are aware that the referendum will take place. We are aware that it would be good for as many people to come to the referendum as possible. We are aware that they will decide the fate of the law to be decided. The question is how they will decide and on what basis, on which basis, the information is based. Will they completely bypass the warnings of a profession that is so uniform? Will they completely bypass the analysis, the extensive ones that they did not have the opportunity to read, and are we? Will the warnings and support of those who represent the greatest number of pensioners who have supported this law from the beginning be heard? I am talking, of course, about the Union of Retirement Associations of Slovenia, and it is not possible for a party that considers itself the only representative of their interests who speaks something completely different. It depends on whether people will have the right data, the right starting points, whether they will know the true logic of this reform, or rather, it is easier to listen to the political interests of individual parties and union leaders. We do not have exactly the same views in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, and we also believe that some solutions could be different. However, we know that reforms cannot be done in such a way that everyone sets his ultimatum, and then, if he is not comfortable in any particular work, he requires the removal of everything. The consequences may be worse than some realize or realize they will. What would be important for us is to reiterate that this time remaining until the vote, the time when the well-represented starting points, the well-represented trends, the well-represented effects – those that will be positive, and those that will be negative – should be reconsidered. And we would like people to understand but slightly differently this reform as they understand it now. It has not been done enough to properly present the reform. When we ask average people today what they know about this pension reform, they only know something about what scares them, which scares them. They say we'll have to work longer, they say, we'll have bigger little ones, they say, we'll have lower pensions. If we agree that such an image will prevail in our public, then it is clear that all this long - term work is in vain, free of charge. It is clear, then, that the consequences will be negative, especially because we estimate that there is no longer time to postpone, even if we are not the most excited about all solutions, because we estimate that this course, this walk to different results will be long lasting, therefore we estimate that we are starting a marathon run and we need to start it as quickly as possible, otherwise it may be more tragic for many than we would like to. For all of us, it probably poses a threat to potential development, and it means everything to us if we agree that this law will desavuise, because we believe that older people have to give up jobs for younger people, we make mistakes. We need to provide jobs both for those who are already active and for those who are yet to enter these work processes, because it has been said several times that it is not possible to just retire because we need more employment so that we can keep those retired. Therefore, these differences between the number of employees and those financially conditioned by the employees by the payment of contributions should not therefore be increased. Scissors during the time of creation and the time when the fruits of this work are enjoyed must no longer be scattered. And scissors, which appear to be a need for credit to finance current consumption, must also be closed. That's why it's time for us to start this marathon run right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Miran Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Svetlik, colleagues and colleagues! Whenever we decide on the call for a referendum, and we are not just talking about the decision, but about all the other issues, I will always point out without the hope of victory that this is contrary to the role that we should have at this point. This time I will do this, even though everyone else, especially at the point of the agenda on archival material, is significantly less so today — now that we are talking about the pension law — you are talking about breaking the principles that we should enforce ourselves. However, I am not saying that the President is responsible because I have said this many times and he has rightly warned me that it would not help him, because he could warn anyone, but we would talk about everything else, just what the content of the decree is. I will support the referendum motion for a resolution on the call for a referendum. I will support it because, in the framework of the referendum legislation, I am convinced that if anyone, then we have to give citizens and citizens who, by reason of this logic or any other logic, can also be poorly informed about the content and are firmly convinced that the referendum is useful and necessary to enable them to do so. But I think we're doing the wrong thing. I will not, when we confirm the rulings even in cases where they exercise their right in accordance with the law or abuse their rights through the powers given by law, political parties in order to make it difficult for them to operate in the National Assembly. Third, which I would say in the introduction: I am glad that referendum 5 will be held. 6. and if there has to be three issues at the same time. Why am I stressing this? Not to be happy to have three referenda, but to find someone who will say that it is his credit and merit that we have a referendum day. No, no, no. The three referendums of three different candidates fell both in the decision-making of the National Assembly and the National Assembly was organised in such a way as to allow all three referendums to be held on the same day. Perhaps those who think otherwise do not think that any of us is so naive, or stupid, or evil, that everywhere and whenever there is a chance of being united without harm to the legislative process, they will not do so. We're not stupid, by the way. But of course, against the referendum day, when it is a desire to set it in order to prevent the legislative procedure, so that the decision on the referendum would be made today and ended in the autumn or at the end of the year; or to set a referendum day, and then six months earlier, half a year after that, we considered it to be part of the referendum. However, I think it is a shame that we have brought the adoption of pension legislation so far that citizens and citizens with a sufficient number of signatures, organised mainly through trade unions – I do not claim that only – have presented to the National Assembly the obligation to defend a new law on pension and disability insurance at the referendum. I am sorry that this is so, because I firmly believe that it is of the utmost importance, that it has largely acceptable solutions, that the weaknesses that would now appear immediately after implementation or at the time of implementation could be rectified and that probably, with the behaviour of what pension law means, there would be a willingness to do so at all ends. And secondly, it is not true that I would not be very thoroughly coordinated in the course of reception in the National Assembly. The referendum on the Pension and Disability Insurance Act is extremely demanding and the responsibility of citizens and citizens to decide on it will be enormous. His, the citizen and the citizens, us, the political parties, the professions and others – and this is not now, I would say, my understanding of this, particularly in his decision the Constitutional Court has warned us that our responsibility, despite saying that the referendum is possible because it does not prevent the advance implementation of social policy, but that it is also aware of the Constitutional Court as well as the majority of the professions and policies that the regulation of pension and disability insurance in a new law, such or a slightly different one, is necessarily necessary for the country, as well as for citizens and citizens of the present and future pensioners. And that's why I'm very sorry that we're going to make that decision at the referendum. Citizens and citizens will say, "Yes, you warn us that there will be a problem with credit, with ratings, with the provision of financial resources, and we will adopt it and therefore we will support the law." Others will say, "Sorry, we are particularly interested in our position. And maybe there are 100 good solutions in marriage, but three are bad." And those three who are bad are related exactly to his position and interests: when he will go to retirement, what his pension base will be, whether he can work alongside his pension for a while or not, and then he will make a decision without considering anything else. And that's the difficulty of deciding at the referendum, so maybe I'm talking about it for a minute more – and I stress that because again some evil person will find himself, who will say, you're afraid and you don't trust people to make decisions. No! No! We trust, but we point out in what extremely difficult circumstances this will be decided upon. To get back to the agreement and social dialogue. Yes, in the National Assembly, even in public, even in connection with the pension law, winged: there is no social dialogue. I claim that the warning of insufficient social dialogue is justified, but I think that, as much more than that, what comes from the opposition when it is said that there is no social dialogue, there is a massive exaggeration. In the area of the preparation of pension legislation – I have a review, but I will not tire you with it, because I should simply list you in dozens of meetings and talk from the Economic and Social Council, the party's presidents and the government, and to work in the home work bodies where some solutions have been found. I could count on dozens of amendments that have been tabled and many of them accepted. Many accepted so important that some parties felt that only because of this pension reform could they give their 'yes'. So talking about the absence of social dialogue is a fat exaggeration. He was, but he wasn't perfect, and he wasn't completely successful. When, however, it happens to us that it is also successful, as has already been pointed out with regard to the necessary consensus reached between the social partners in the context of the black work ban law, however, in this national assembly one party, which is considered to be in principle and fair, the Slovenian Democratic Party, only because of two disagreements – the first one was really unnecessary and the second one could be debated; this is the conduct of some neighbourly works, not all, some, especially in the area of construction, because there was a major problem here. And the question of terms of reference. This was the only reason that citizens and citizens were required to decide on this, but not to correct it after the adoption of the law. The only answer why we failed is not the answer that the law is bad, the only answer is not the misunderstanding of the problem, the only answer is not the lack of dialogue, the only answer is not the lack of confidence in the government, but I believe that each of these is something and unfortunately we were not able to – and here is the guilt and responsibility of the ruling coalition and government, and I am not running away from it – to find such ways to eliminate – in a good sense eliminate – each of these elements that I have counted, and perhaps some of them have come to a better solution. But the referendum is here. It is now the responsibility of the policy to do everything possible to adopt the law. Helps or "reparation" can all policies, help or "reparation" can the profession, including the media, including civil society, including trade unions, can be equipped with a few demagogic claims and build on them reform, we can do our best and try to show the goals, solutions for people and for the country, short and medium term, because there is nothing forever, or we can go through demagogy just to make the law fail. However, in my opinion, one thing is undeniable: its face, its political mission will be shown by all government parties, as well as opposition parties, as well as non-parliamentary ones by their approach to the issue of pension reform and the adoption of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. I don't care if someone asks me to score from 1 to 10 or from 1 to 99 and I don't know what the real number is, but I'm sure we'll do much, much more damage to ourselves and the country if we don't adopt the law. For this reason, allow me to use this phone this time in a way that may not be the most beautiful. By the way, I'm calling; I'm calling everyone up to five. 6. 2011 we overcome and dismiss the party's interests, party health and disputes both within the coalition, both within individual coalition parties and between the coalition and the opposition, as well as between the parties and the government on the one hand and the unions on the other, and we are trying to find an agreement by which the law could be adopted, not a formal agreement, but a joint activity that would help. You know that I myself have been among those who have warned that to this day and to this day, the signatures collected for the referendum have at least existed. I'm not going to say who did it because it wasn't used, but the fact is it wasn't used. I know about some of the meetings that I myself organized, and I got the last minute notice that there's not going to be a meeting like this. If we are going to do this task with the responsibility of everyone, not by pointing our finger at each other, who is guilty, then I am sure that we can reach the adoption of the law at the referendum as well. Let me say this for those who are very concerned: 5. 6. 2011 will still have time to smooth each other's wounds within the client framework so we can talk about who will rule after 5. 6. 2011 and why he will rule later or we will go on this or other road to early elections; in short, what has suddenly come together as the most important in this society. I think that waiting a month for these things, which are extremely internal political, or coalition political, or inter-party political, means more than losing this referendum. In view of their comments and beliefs, everyone will decide as he thinks; I just felt that it was right to say it. And in the end, there's something else. I don't know how you're having some of your colleagues' discussions. I see them as extremely hostile, I also experience them as a puff, although the puffs are read to others, I understand and experience them also as evil and appealing, and I do not think that this is good and that in any relationship, but especially with regard to pension legislation, it does not benefit. A colleague of mags. I asked Majdo Potrate if the correct Slovenian proverb is, "He who sows the wind reaps the wind." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! When we set the date of the referendum on pension reform, we must ask ourselves how fast this is. To answer that, let us go a few days ago, on Monday, when Mr Vizjak asked the Prime Minister a question about what the short-term measures would be to get out of the crisis. And Mr Pahor replied like that, quote: "I think we are all in a very difficult situation together. So I'm telling you, in the short term, it's now important that we get a pension reform. I tell you, this is the shortest and most successful step towards reducing public debt. Moreover, honourable Member, due to the fall of pension reform and the rating of austerity measures or ratings, there will be austerity measures that this government will not say and order, but the European Commission and the European Central Bank, so cruel to our people that they simply do not deserve it. It's a short-term measure right now." Well, that's right, Mr. President. Of course, if the pension law is the shortest and most important and obviously the only government anti-crisis measure and if this government hopes to be confirmed at the referendum, then, of course, it is very urgent that the crisis deepens every day in Slovenia. Well, let's take a look at this short-term counter-crisis measure, which the Prime Minister therefore claims that if it is not confirmed at the referendum, we will receive the harsh measures of the European Union. First time. According to the old, still valid law, a man who has reached at least 15 years of age may not retire until he is 65 years of age. The new law states that if you are at least 15 years of age, you can only retire at 65 years of age. According to the old law, at least 15 years of working age, a woman retires at 63 years of age. Well, according to the new law, she'll have to be 64 next year. I say, next year, because we are talking about the shortest-term anti-crisis measures. In the short term, however, the short-term must be caught in at least one year. If it is 20 years of working age, the old law requires a man 63 years of age for a woman 61 years of age. Under the new law next year, for a man of 63 years and 6 months, for a woman of 61 years and 6 months, that is to say 6 months. Similarly, at 40 years of work — 6 months. Do you think these six months will pull us out of such a deep economic crisis? If the law is enforced, the inflow of pensioners by the end of 2012 will be due to an extension of only half a percent of the amount or barely 10,000 persons, i.e. about €6 million. So this fastest anti-crisis measure will bring us €6 million. What does that mean? This means half a percent of the funds that we or we will throw into a bottomless pit called the recapitalisation of the so-called national interest. If I just mention it, half a percent! On the shoulders of the pensioners! I don't know how we're going to get out of this crisis with such measures. Well, there are other austerity measures offered by this law. Point 2. The pension base as the starting point for the calculation of the old pension will rise from 18 to 30 years, or 27 years, but only a few years later. Next year it's going to be 18 for 20 years. Do you really think there's gonna be this kind of savings here? However, certain rates of contribution have been raised, namely in one of the categories of insured persons, in those categories receiving unemployment benefits, parental protection, hospital compensation, foster parents, self-employed persons and farms. This is a category, and this rate will rise by 20%. Yeah, how much do you think we're gonna get from this lift? What a change we'll get, since these are the lowest incomes! So far they have paid from the minimum wage, which is 50% of Slovenia's average salary, and now they will pay 60% of the average wage, so to speak, 20% of their contribution will increase. What this means for this category and for their social vulnerability is another issue, we are talking about anti-crisis measures here. Fourth time. The age limit for children is reduced by 1 child by 6 months, by 2 children by 15 months, by 3 children by 27 months. Of course, under the new law, an age limit of 8 months will be reduced for each child. So those who have one or two children will have a lower age limit, they will be able to retire faster, there will be no savings, at least not in my opinion. Fifth. According to the old law, the service of the army is recognized for 10 months per year of service and after a new eight months. Saving is not worth mentioning. Six. A generation of those who have already fulfilled the conditions of retirement under the old law by the end of 2010 have remained active and can retire under the old law — hence, the new law has no effect on them. Where can we expect savings as a basic, short-term, anti-crisis measure? Let's see. The obligation to finance early retirement due to the so-called benefit of working time is transferred to a fund that is not or is empty; this does not burden the law. Of course, we'll unload the PIZ, the pension fund, because it's transferred to some fund, but this fund is empty. There's no money, and that's what the unions warned us about, but that's not it, then the problem of the PIZ. All right, weird savings. Come in. State pensions will no longer be approved, these are those state pensions when he had no income, and he received €183 per month. This will no longer be approved. Yeah, but social services are gonna be so much more burdensome. What kind of savings is that?Oh, my God! National savings! Next. Delete: Protection allowance, aid and service allowance, etc. That is to say, the social transfers that were previously drawn from the pension register will now be from somewhere else. Weird savings. Otherwise, as I said, these social obligations are now being transferred to another treasury. The government's expectations that after the death of a social supporter, it will cover its expenses by confiscating the deceased's properties do not fall under short-term anti-crisis measures. These are not short-term. Somewhere, however, this government will save, even at the expense of violating the expected rights. According to the old law, a regular programme of higher education and university studies is considered during the working age, namely this year 10 months per year of study. This right, however, is unexpected and completely deleted in the new law. In Slovenia we have about 30,000 university students who, according to the old law, would meet the conditions and retire in the next 4 years. In 4 years, these 30,000 will have to work 4 years longer, and in these 4 years, the limit, as I said, of retirement, will extend 6 months a year, will extend for another two years. That is to say, this 30,000 will retire, not until six years later, if the law is passed, from today until six years later. For six years, none of these 30,000 college students will retire. All right, we'll save it. Really, but what does that mean for young new graduates? What does that mean for six years? Six years won't empty jobs. Of course, the Minister has never responded to this during the debate, and he is unlikely to be able to respond at the time of the referendum campaign. Like irony, we got an offer so they could walk along the line of small work. Well, fortunately, this generous offer was convincingly rejected. Mrs. Potrata, 6 years young – we are old, not important to us – but young, Mrs. Potrata! But it's a concern, at least for me and us, if not for you. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Of course, these people will then have to receive social support so that I do not talk about the problems of young families. This problem is nowhere at the forefront of this ministry, unfortunately, of solving their housing issue and so on. Good. If anyone says so, and we will probably continue to hear until the referendum that this pension reform is the shortest and most important counter-crisis measure, if anyone says so, then ladies and gentlemen, he does not know what he is saying or is deliberately misleading. This is my truly well-founded belief. This reform, if adopted, will not have any positive effects for a long time, but only in a limited and temporary manner. As far as the economic crisis is concerned, the referendum is not in a hurry and could also be autumn, but it would be good to reject this law as soon as possible in the referendum and thus open the way for a new approach, a new dialogue with the social partners and a new law that would truly follow the principles of fairness, transparency and long-term sustainability. Unfortunately, this law does not follow these principles. Not one of these. After all, we already have two referendums on June 5th and it is appropriate to locate this on June 5th without any new financial burden. So, goodbye June 5th.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u92	Thank you again for the word, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we are truly aware that all the conditions for the call for a referendum requested by the signatories under the leadership of the President of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, Mr Semolic, are laid down, and we respect this right of 40,000 voters to request a referendum. The fact is that the legislative procedure in the National Assembly has been fully exploited, we have also endured the veto proposed by the appointed Mr. as State Councillor and has been tabled by the Council of State for a re-decision on this subject and by Members and Members of Parliament for the fourth time. At this point, I can say that we were able to make it through arguments, rationality, not sentimentality and incorrectness used by the opposite party. Everyone here in the presentations and opinions on this we see populism and deception, and I suppose I could do it to someone, but I would rather go to the evidence of the absence of social dialogue, which is often evident to the coalition. I think we're both on the working body and somewhere else we've spent a lot of time harmonising certain things. It is important to know, however, that there must be two sides to the dialogue and that, in this case, probably the other side of this social dialogue, i.e. trade unions, should offer some proposals that will go in the direction of pension reform and the necessary changes in this area, and unfortunately we have not been able to do so. Because, at least with regard to these state-of-the-art assessments, most customers, I am not saying that everything, you agree that demographic indicators and everyone else show that change is necessary. The recipe, how to replace almost half a second billion euros, i.e. around 700 euros per capita in Slovenia or over a few thousand euros per year from each taxpayer, which will be required from the integrated budget for pensions, has not been heard. As mentioned today, talking about new jobs, greater productivity and added value is much easier than doing so. However, in order for a different recipe to address this problem to be a higher workload, a higher rate of contribution for employers, who – although not sure how – for the currently not most competitive economy and the projected higher interest rates for credits will successfully lead the Slovenian economy, it is probably not a serious option. Of course, the President of the Free Trade Unions can negotiate with the credit rating houses until they are out of commission and I do not know what social dialogue is going on for all those borrowers – not just the economy, but also the young families who have been here for a very limited period of time will not be able to get a lower interest rate on the purchase of the first apartment. That is why this reform is necessary. The opposition to this reform raises questions about the fundamental premise of this pension system, whether it is intergenerational solidarity, or whether we even want to have the system that we have, whether we have already despaired of this and intergenerational and intergenerational solidarity, and we may prefer to collect some other concept of universal basic income or something like that, because it is already considered to be good that pensions are not only rights from the past work, but given how much funding we are making for them, there is also, in some ways, a social transfer. The truth is also that, at least those obvious social transfers this time, the pension reform has been excluded from the pension register, which I hope is the right thing to do. And that the initiators of the referendum also know that the purpose of this reform is burden sharing, and that is fair for all participants. According to the referendum promoters, only an increase in the pension age to 41 and 43 years, an increase of 65 years for a non-minor pension will not guarantee the long-term sustainability of the pension system. It is also clear that the pension age mentioned does not have much in common with 65 years of age, since we are talking about two different things. Those who have begun to work before will, of course, retire early, at 43 or 41 years of age. For all the others, and most of them, however we will hear in this campaign about people who start working at 15 years of age; in the same breath these people who say how many people start working at 15 years of age will also talk about not having jobs for young people and will have at least another job right. In short, most of us will be working until we're 65. In my case, maybe longer because I'm not that old. The transitional period for all these applications is reasonable for a long time, the crossings are soft. In this context, it is necessary to have a calculation of the pension base, which, from the current 18 years, extends to 30 minus 3 years, which is expected to result in a reduction in the amount of the pension. The fact is that the current system reduces the amount of pension each year with an unaltered dose percentage would be subject to an unaltered dose percentage of 80% under the new law, and now this dose percentage is decreasing. After the transitional period, it will be only 72 %. That's the facts. The current law, with which, say, the unions agreed, reduces pensions. And these facts will remain the same when the law is not confirmed, and there will be no time for gradual changes. The law also stimulates the employment of young people, prohibits any postponement or non-payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance. At the same time, the impetus for the referendum also raises various questions about the labour market, difficulties in employment, opening new jobs, restructuring, active employment policy, active age, which is all beautiful and legitimate and does not have much in common with this law on pension and disability insurance. Although I have also touched on some substantive issues in the presentation of my position, today we only confirm the resolution on the referendum call, which will be held on 5 June this year, together with two more referendums, and we really support it in the Group. On the one hand, it seems good that on the same day we will be able to decide on the concept of the social state, as we imagine it, on the one hand the law on prevention of work and employment in black, on the other hand the pension reform, and on the other hand we will be able to decide for ourselves whether we believe in this solidarity system, whether we still believe in the pension fund or whether we will ensure our social security through work in black. If these are Slovenian customs [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u93	May I have your attention in the hall? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u94	Both of them probably can't be Slovenian customs and let it prove what it is. [[...]] This will also be a good sign for all future generations who may not yet know whether working on black or solidarity is a Slovenian tradition to get a clear signal on how to behave in the future. Unlike the previous government, which was aware of these problems, but did not have the courage to do so, it had the courage to accept these urgent changes. In the Group of Members, we really hope that voters and voters too will come to their senses to implement these urgent reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We will not oppose the decision to call for a legislative referendum on the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance in the Slovenian People's Party Group. We also support a joint day for the three referendums that we are deciding on today. The referendum is a constitutional right to be respected and its application must be prudent and justified. As we have warned many times in the Slovenian People's Party, the inflation of referendums, although it is a major grading of this institution and in people it raises resistance to all or all that is associated with both the national assembly and the government, or generally with politics. The Slovenian People's Party's Group has approached the new law on pension and disability insurance in a constructive manner and with the principle of support for measures in the belief that reform is necessary. Above all, we want to act responsibly and also to ensure safe age for future generations. We already have a responsibility to look to the future and act in a timely manner to prevent the collapse due to the problems of the pension fund. We must all be aware that delaying pension reform will cause even more drastic problems for Slovenia, citizens and citizens, and will require even more unpopular and unfriendly measures in several years. As a result, the SLS Group made a number of comments and added to the law at the stage of its public hearing last July and at the hearing in the National Assembly. Some of our supplements have been adopted, some have been summarized, so we are convinced that the law that has been adopted has sufficiently gradually and reasonably regulated the transition to a new system of pensions. Some of our and many other good proposals have certainly not been taken into account, but it is possible that a few years later some may be determined to make further adjustments. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have been calling for action for two decades because of unfavourable demographic trends and positive family policies. In addition to family policy measures, it is essential to take action in the area of pension and social and health allowance. It is more obvious that the financial situation of the pension fund has not been sustainable for a long time, and forecasts are even more bleak. We are aware that whoever is in power in the future will have to act as soon as possible – even in the event of a negative outcome at the referendum. The most effective thing would be to support the electoral process at the referendum. The law gradually introduces stricter retirement conditions, lays down transitional conditions for retirement, and the next law, if adopted, will certainly be much sharper and more radical. Members of the SLS Group, as it is said, do not oppose the constitutional right to request a subsequent legislative referendum, as it is set out in our legal and democratic order. Therefore, as I have pointed out at the outset, we will not oppose the adoption of a decision in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-04-21-SDZ5-Izredna-42.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members, followed by a debate between Members and Members on the draft resolution. There are only two MPs left. The word has magic. Franz Znidaršič, prepare Andrej Magajna. They're both checking out. The word is government. The government probably won't take the time. Proposer? He won't take the time. I conclude the debate on the proposal for a decision. Since no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a legislative referendum on the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, for 50, for 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item – Defence announcements by the President of the government about the derogation of the soul trumpet from the function of the Ministry without the resources, local self-government and regional policy. On 20 April 2011, the President of the Government of Borut Pahor informed the National Assembly that Duša Trbec Bučan had resigned from the post of Minister without a portfolio responsible for local self-government and regional policy. On 21 April 2011, the President of the Government informed the National Assembly that Dr. Boštjan Žekš, Minister without a Resource, would serve as Minister without a Resource, responsible for Slovenians in place and around the world. The Minister informed her that she would not explain her resignation in the National Assembly. With this in mind, the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that the Minister without a resource responsible for local self-government and regional policy, Duša Trbec Bučan, has resigned and has ceased to serve as Minister. Until the appointment of the new minister, Minister Boštjan Žekš, Minister without a Resource, will be responsible for Slovenians in place and around the world. Soul Trbec Bučan I thank you for your cooperation and I want the best in further work. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I conclude the 42nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. Thanks for understanding. Good night. The meeting was closed on 21 April 2011 at 23.37 p.m.
