ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Member: Mrs Renata Brunskole by 12 noon and Mr Samo Bevk between 10 a.m. and 14 p.m. Of course, I welcome all those present. We're moving to seven. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on welfare reserves within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I am giving the representative of the Government mags. Urošu Rožić, State Secretary, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade Reserves transposes Directive 119 of 2009 into our legal order, and this is also the only purpose of amending this Act. The Directive simplifies the legal order of the community and somehow replaces two existing directives and one Council decision, thus simplifying the regulation itself. The aim of the law or the transposition of the directive into our legal order is to establish an emergency mechanism if the supply of crude oil or petroleum derivatives in Slovenia, in each Member State or in the entire Union is suddenly reduced. To this end, all Member States must have crisis or intervention plans and effective procedures for the rapid and transparent release of oil and oil derivatives reserves in the event of a crisis. The key solutions, and if you'll excuse me, I will really focus only on the essential solutions, are somehow the following. In addition to improving the legislative framework, it is of course also important to ensure the absolute availability of the reserve and consequently to reduce the quantity of so-called delegated reserves. The plan or idea of this law or directive is that 90% of all reserves of oil and petroleum products must be absolutely available, which means that legal status must be owned by the institution or by the Member State and only up to 10% of the delegated reserves, which means reserves that are somehow reserved by future contracts. The purpose of the law is also to establish a single storage body for these reserves, in the Republic of Slovenia this is the Department of Freight Reserves. Somehow, for all Member States, they expect or foresee that they have a centralised body, which we also have in Slovenia. We have the Department of Freight Reserves, which takes care of both these mandatory reserves of oil and petroleum derivatives and then has other tasks. The next important objective is to provide permanent total oil reserves throughout the Union, which must be equal to at least 90 days of average net imports or 61 days of average daily domestic consumption, depending on which quantity is higher. Slovenia has provided these quantities since 2005 and the quantities change annually and are determined for each year separately by a decision of the Government. The legal basis for the issuance of the Regulation and the regulation is also important, with the topic of the Regulation being the determination of the methods and procedures for the calculation of quantities. As far as the regulation is concerned, however, it will be its task to curb intervention measures in the event of a crisis. Oil reserves will be able to be stored anywhere in the Union. In any Member State, the Commercial Reserve Office will be able to rent or purchase spare capacity, with the only restriction that both Member States where these tanks are located and the Republic of Slovenia must agree. So much for a little while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. In order to present the report to the committee, I give the floor to the mags. Stan Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At its 3rd meeting, on 4.10.2012, the Committee on the Economy considered the above-mentioned draft law as a working body. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. The Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects. The Service made specific comments on the provisions of Articles 5, 6 and 8 of the draft law. In its opinion, the Service also proposed setting a time limit for the transfer of tasks related to the management of oil reserves and oil derivatives to another Member State of the European Union. The Committee was presented with amendments to Articles 5, 6 and 8. In the debate, individual members of the Committee expressed concern about the possibility of providing oil and petroleum derivatives in specific situations. The Secretary of State explained that Slovenia provides all reserves in accordance with the rules and ensured that there is no cause for concern regarding the possible lack of oil and petroleum derivatives. The debate also raised a dilemma regarding the possible sale of Petrol and Installation and the need to pursue the strategic objective of keeping most of the oil and oil derivatives reserves in storage in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. In this regard, the Secretary of State explained that the relationship between the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the provision of supplies and those for which they were leased should be clarified before the sale procedure could begin. He agreed that this was an important issue which the Ministry would pay special attention to in the event of the opening of the sale procedure. After the discussion, the Committee identified and adopted the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. The Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which forms an integral part of the report of the Committee, has been prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u6	Your Honor! Social Democrats support the objectives of the law to ensure smooth supply of oil and oil derivatives to mitigate the consequences of major oil and oil-derived disruptions. This can only be ensured by having in our territory and also wider, within the territory of the Community, physical reserves that will be operational in the event of a crisis and by preparing appropriate intervention plans for the release of reserves that will allow for the provision of smooth supply of oil and oil derivatives. The aim of the law or the transposition of the provisions of the Directive is to establish a mechanism for emergency situations if the supply of crude oil and petroleum derivatives in a Member State and also in an area of the European Union as a whole is suddenly reduced. To this end, the Member States of the European Union must have established crisis or intervention plans and effective procedures for the rapid and transparent release of stocks in crisis situations. As a result of this, the Social Democracy will support the Law on Freight Reserves. Otherwise, in the Social Democracy, we believe that more attention will have to be paid in the future to providing supplies in the field of supply of emergency life supplies, such as food. This will be needed to a greater extent in the dry seasons when food is scarce. We also believe in Social Democracy that the government should set up a fund for securing commodity risks in the future. The purpose of this fund would be to protect against rising oil prices, cereals and more. While such insurance is valid in the private sector, it has not yet been used to a greater extent in Slovenia. For this reason, a State fund should be set up to cover commodity risks. As I mentioned, Social Democracy will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade Reserves.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Starman, on behalf of the Ambassador of the National List Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! The Civil Code will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freight Reserves. This is a relatively simple, more technical amendment, which introduces into our legal order Directive 2009/119, and thus sets out the rules of the game how to form, at what height to form, where to store our reserves of oil derivatives. The Ministry has told us that we comply with the current requirements of the European Union, that we have a reserve for three months or 91 days, so once again I stress that we will support this law in the National Gazette. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u10	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members! As we have already heard in the opening presentation, this is a harmonisation of the Law on Freight Reserves with certain European directives. Some agreements on the convergence of standards in this area at Member State level date back to 2007. If we simplify things a little bit, the European Union is trying to establish an internal market in the area of stable supply of oil and petroleum derivatives, based on solidarity between members. If there are any disruptions in the supply of any member, the European Union will be able to respond as a whole. We are establishing a common mechanism for possible crisis situations. This is followed by an improvement in the regulatory framework to be harmonised, the provision of permanent common reserves throughout the Union, the adaptation of the methodology for calculating reserve maintenance obligations and, of course, the preparation of intervention plans and measures to mitigate difficulties arising from possible supply disruptions. It is not entirely irrelevant that it is also possible to create specific reserves that go beyond the obligations of the State and are decided by the State at its own discretion. The fact is that Slovenia does not have this essential raw material that drives its industry and virtually all transport, so any failure to provide this energy source could cause quite extensive economic damage. In the Slovenian People's Party, we welcome the European Union's intentions to apply the common energy policy in this area too, since when we are included in the mechanism of so many countries, we are greatly reducing the chances of any kind of shock. In other words, the negotiating power of each individual member in relation to suppliers is increasing, as it is behind the entire structure of the European Community. It may only be worth mentioning that compulsory reserves must be kept in full physical form, so optional contracts are not in effect. This means that there are also certain costs associated with storage. It would make sense, as a country, to optimise storage and maximize our own capacity. However, in cases where private storage facilities are being leased in the country or only within the European Community, seek out the most favourable tenderers, of course those who can carry out their part of the task under the prescribed standards. We are convinced that it is also possible in this area to optimise costs and save some euro of the countries in the state budget. In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party in this area, we are improving Slovenian supply of oil and petroleum derivatives, but the issue of natural gas reserves remains open. As we know, there are no mandatory state reserves of this energy, there are only commercial reserves. After problems with delivery years ago in the face of a conflict between Russia and Ukraine, considerable progress has been made at European Union level in this area, and a great deal of work has also been done by distributors who have more dispersed their orders among several suppliers and thereby reduced risks. However, as we know, in recent years such adjustments have been very costlyly paid by Slovenians mainly with non-competitive prices for the final consumer, so in the Slovenian People's Party we support the further opening of the market while at the same time reminding us that the risk of providing regular supplies must be fully assumed by the distributor. National supervisory authorities should also be aware of this. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will be supported by the Novelo Law on Trade Reserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a new Law on Freight Reserves. The proposed amendments to the Law on Freight Reserves are intended to transpose the provisions of the new and now single European Directive into the Slovenian legal order. The deadline for implementation is the last day of this year. Under this Directive, the amended law introduces measures to strengthen the system of maintenance of minimum reserves of oil and petroleum derivatives. In our country, it exercises the competence of the Central Authority for the Storage of Oil and Petroleum Derivatives of the Department of Freight Reserves, which has been carrying out this storage for several years. Slovenia has achieved the desired level by gradually drawing up the mandatory reserves already in 2005 and has since fulfilled the minimum quantity of oil and oil derivatives reserves, which under the Directive provides a reserve for at least 90 days of average net imports or 61 days of average daily consumption. However, the new law requires that these reserves are absolutely available, which means they will be owned by the institution. In addition to these mandatory reserves that a country may keep anywhere in the Union, subject to full physical accessibility for the ownership State, the possibility of creating specific reserves shall also be introduced. These specific reserves may, however, be established on the basis of a country-specific decision and should meet the actual needs of the country for oil in the event of a crisis. The Directive and, as a consequence, this novelty also brings new developments in the control or monitoring of the state of reserve maintenance. For us, the new reporting and reporting obligations do not pose significant problems, as the procedures so far will only slightly adapt to the uniform European requirements. We will, of course, support the proposed changes in the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, Members, distinguished representatives of the Government, I welcome all of you! The basic objective of the new Law on Freight Reserves was adopted already in 1999 for the creation of mandatory oil reserves and its derivatives, which are physically available at all times and the preparation of appropriate intervention plans for their use. These mandatory reserves are intended to be sufficient for 90-day average consumption and are intended to provide smooth supply of oil and its derivatives in the event that unexpected factors occur in the territory of Slovenia. By means of European Directive 2009/119/EC, we will transfer to the Slovenian legal order the basis for uniting the mandatory reserves at the level of the European Community as a whole and thus establish an emergency mechanism if oil supply in any of the members of the European Union or in the entire Union has dropped unexpectedly and significantly. It is necessary to say that Slovenia has already reached the recommended level of mandatory oil and oil derivatives reserves in 2005, thus fulfilling the provisions of the 2009 European Directive all the time. The strategic value of such reserves is extremely important for Slovenia and the European Union and gives its economy additional stability in the event that unexpected factors cause the oil crisis we have experienced in the former Yugoslavia. Due to all the positive effects that the transposition of the European Directive will bring, this amendment of the Law on Trade Reserves will be supported in New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mrs Alenka Pavlič on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u16	We have before us a second consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade Reserves. The purpose of the adoption of the law and its objectives has already been presented to me by the predecessors, so I will not go into detail. In general, it is a law in which amendments and additions are made in order to harmonise our legislation with the provisions of Council Directive 2009/119/EC establishing procedures and measures to further strengthen the system of maintenance of minimum oil reserves and oil derivatives in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and at the level of the European Union as a whole, and to mitigate the consequences of major disruptions in the supply of oil and petroleum derivatives. Slovenia is a model member in this area, as it already complies with most of the provisions laid down in the Directive. Thus we have established the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Freight Reserves, whose task is also to establish and maintain mandatory stocks of oil and its derivatives in its territory, thereby achieving additional value and control of stocks. In Positive Slovenia, however, we are asked a question that we have also raised on the working body and for which we have not received an answer for objective reasons. These are storage facilities in Sermin near Koper, owned by the company Installation, d. o. o., in which the Republic of Slovenia has a lot of reserves of oil and its derivatives, and the warehouse uses Luka Koper to carry out its economic activities. In Positive Slovenia, we are convinced that the Sermina area is of strategic importance not only for the provision of as much oil and petroleum products as possible in the Republic of Slovenia, but also for the development of Luka Koper. As we know, the directive recommends that Member States ensure as much as possible the storage and storage of oil and its derivatives in their territory and that Sermin is one of the strategic storage points. Our opinion was that one of the companies the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wants to sell, including Petrol, d. d., which owns Installation, d. o. o. Since Installation, d. o. o. is of strategic importance for the Republic of Slovenia, we propose that the Government exempt this company from the sale of Petrol or that it now buys out 51% of the shares of Installation, d. o.o., and thus the right to manage the storage premises of Sermin. In Positive Slovenia, we are convinced that if the sale of Installation, d. o. o., to a private company is made, there will be indeed irreparable consequences for the functioning of the country and also for the economic development of Luka Koper. Dear Government Representative, we expect that you will be able to respond to our initiative today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u18	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! The main objective of the bill is to transpose the provisions of the directive into the Slovenian legal order. The SDS Group will, in particular, support the proposed law due to the principles introduced in the new legislation. In particular, we assess that this law ensures the principle of economic efficiency and that the principle of administrative burdens will contribute to reducing costs and removing some administrative obstacles. The main solutions foreseen by this law will also create a more effective security system and establish a solidarity principle for all EU countries. Due to all these assurances and the priorities of the new bill, the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u19	Thank you very much. These were presentations of the views of the groups of Members. As the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the half-hour vote following the end of the 16th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the added value tax in the framework of the reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Aleš Zivkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members! Allow a short representative of the main decision of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly. The basic objective of the bill is to transpose into the Slovenian legal order a Council Directive amending the VAT Directive on rules on the issuance of accounts. The proposal lays down the simplification and simplification of the rules for the issuance of accounts within the Union, the equivalence of the treatment of paper and electronic accounts and the promotion of the use of electronic invoices by ensuring the authenticity of origin, the integrity of the content and the readability of the account. The proposal for a law further transposes part of the provisions of the Council Directive amending the VAT Directive as regards the place of supply of services, namely those provisions which must be aligned with the European acquis by 1 January 2013. More precisely, it specifies the course of the period for which interest is to be calculated increased for criminal points in the event of a VAT correction. The bill provides for an increase in the threshold for the application of a specific scheme for small taxpayers from EUR 25 000 to EUR 50 000. This will simplify the administrative obligations of taxable persons who will not need to be identified for VAT purposes. However, for tax authorities, the measure in question reduces the administrative burden mainly from the point of view of tax control of smaller taxpayers. The proposal also rescinds the application of the special arrangement after a paid implementation, thereby reducing the administrative burden on taxable persons who will apply the scheme. A special arrangement after a paid realization will be open to a taxable person whose value of taxable traffic, which will exceed the last 12 months, does not exceed EUR 400,000. It is envisaged that the proposed amendments to the value added tax law will be in force as from 1 January 2013, with the exception of the amendment to the increase in the threshold for the application of the specific scheme for small taxpayers. This relates to the prior approval of a derogation by the EU Council. Members and Members of Parliament, taking into account the above, I propose that you support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the committee, I give the floor to the member of the mags. Damjani Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u22	Thank you, President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 7th session. Ten. 2012 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration by proposing that the law submitted be examined and adopted following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 25th meeting that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and in terms of the technical aspects of the legislation. The Service made written comments on the proposal for a law which had also been taken into account. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the SDS, the National Gazette, the SLS, DeSUS and NSI in the section of the proposed law. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance presented the main solutions presented by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act. The purpose of the bill is to comply with the EU acquis. It is a matter of simplifying and simplifying the issuance of accounts, balancing physical and electronic accounts and harmonising the rules concerning the place of supply of services. He stressed that the novelty also raises the threshold for taxpayers from EUR 25 000 to EUR 50 000 for entry into the VAT system, reducing administrative burdens mainly for small taxpayers and also for tax authorities. The debate was also supported by members of the opposition members' committee, while at the same time pointing out that there is a lack of analysis of the costs of the introduction of the law, as they will certainly have some costs and are interested in whether the funds are provided. They also pointed out the non-covery of certain regions with an internet connection, which is a condition for electronic commerce. Members of the coalition parties stressed that the bill is intended for independent entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises. The draft law provides for the harmonisation of the rules on the calculation of value added tax and the reduction of administrative barriers for both entrepreneurs and tax authorities. In addition, it repeals the non-coordinated legislation of the European Union and promotes electronic commerce. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments of the SDS, National Gazette, SLS, DeSUS and NSI to the draft law. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the proposal and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes all the amendments adopted, is also prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bojan Starman on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u24	Have a nice hello to you all again! The Citizens' List will support these amendments. It is a matter of alignment with the acquis of the European Union. We've heard what change brings, the equation of electronic and physical billing, the increase in the threshold from 25 to 50, and we wouldn't repeat it. We will support these changes. However, all I would suggest is that those government services that bring us any additions and alignments with the European Union each month put all of these on a table that we have to coordinate for the next six months and bring them together on the occasion of the next amendment of the law, so that we do not waste time on things that are already agreed on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Žveglič on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u26	Dear Vice President! Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposal for a law with the awareness that, after the adoption of this law, we will have to propose another similar law, since there is a provision in this law that an increase in the entry threshold for VAT should be set for all equally, i.e. for agricultural and forestry activities. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the reduction of bureaucracy and therefore support the simplification of the issuance of invoices, the equalisation of physical and electronic accounts and the harmonisation of the rules on the place of provision of services in the long term with the rules of the European Union, since we need to adopt these amendments by the end of the year. We hope that the rule that ensures that VAT is paid at the point of consumption will prevent companies from moving or moving their activities into so-called tax havens to lower-tax countries. We also support the increase in the threshold for taxpayers from EUR 25 000 to EUR 50 000, which reduces the administrative burden for small taxpayers and also for tax authorities. We have been taking a long time to raise this threshold in the Slovenian People's Party. Simplifying tax collection and payment will mainly burden small and micro enterprises, which represent an important part of the economy and jobs in Slovenia. Certainly, small taxpayers also have agricultural and forestry activities and should in fact raise the threshold from €7 000 to €500. As I said in the introduction, the draft law will be supported by members of the Slovenian People's Party following a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Plevčak on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. What a lovely greeting to all present! With this amendment, we will transpose two European directives into the Slovenian legal order. The new rules concerning the place of provision of services in the long-term provision of means of transport to a non-taxable person shall respect the principle of taxation at the place of destination. However, the new rules on the provision and storage of accounts will ensure a more uniform implementation of this regime within the territory of the European Union. The reduction in the administrative burdens of taxpayers is mainly for micro-enterprises and independent entrepreneurs, by increasing the taxable annual transport threshold from today's 25 000 to 50,000 euros. Since the measure is linked to the imposition of flat-rate taxation in the field of taxation of the income of natural and legal persons, positive effects can only be achieved if the same group of taxable persons is able to impose administrative simplifications at the same time, i.e. in the area of value added tax accounting. The high administrative burden of taxpayers and the resulting higher accounting costs are, according to the novelty's assessment, a key reason for the modest use of the possibility of calculating value added tax after a special arrangement paid for. Therefore, a definition of this arrangement is being prepared with a view to increasing the company’s interest in its use. However, these measures will not only burden taxpayers, but also the tax authorities. In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that the proposed changes in this law will have a positive impact on the competitiveness of small businesses, which are one of the most important parts of the Slovenian economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat from the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! The new Law on Value Added Tax is considered as part of the third package of measures to promote the economy and is intended primarily for small and micro-enterprises and independent entrepreneurs, individuals. This framework also includes the amendments to the Income Act and the amendment to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons which introduce flat-rate taxation for those taxable persons who do not exceed EUR 50 000 per annum. However, the current amendment to the Value Added Tax Act is an important novelty, raising the threshold for compulsory entry into the VAT system from the current EUR 25 000 to EUR 50 000 of annual tax transport. In doing so, it should be pointed out that, from now on, small entrants will still be able to opt for voluntary entry into the VAT system, in particular those who will be granting incentives to invest in research and development or investment facilitation. In this way, an undertaking under a coalition contract is implemented whereby taxpayers, as well as the tax authorities, are also burdening the tax administration procedures in such a way as to simplify the forms and procedures of the tax accounts. We note that this proposal is in line with the proposal for a directive to simplify the value added tax obligations of 29 October 2004, which included provisions that would allow Member States to increase the annual turnover ceiling to up to EUR 100,000, which would give Member States greater flexibility in establishing the most appropriate arrangements for the structure of their national economy. However, before this novelty takes effect, Slovenia will have to gain the EU Council's consent and we expect to gain this consensus. The Law on Value Added Tax also contains some other solutions that comply with European legislation. Two Council Directives shall be brought into the Slovenian legal order, which the Republic of Slovenia shall transpose into national law by 1 January of the following year at the latest. The Directives are aimed at simplifying, updating and harmonising the rules on the issuance of invoices and harmonising the rules on the occurrence of VAT obligations in intra-European Union transactions and the taxation of rules on long-term rental of means of transport, whether the contracting authority is a taxable person or not. The legislation also establishes legal bases for the promotion of electronic commerce, which is given special importance in the New Slovenia Group. All these changes will lead to improvements in the business environment and, in conjunction with other measures, will stimulate the necessary economic growth. Members of the New Slovenia Group will support the amendment of the Value Added Tax Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Aloj Potočnik on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I agree with my colleague Starman. Let's at least ease up on the debates on the redundancies. This time the amendment of the Value Added Tax Act, which is not the last one this year, introduces some new amended procedures and rules related to the calculation and payment of that tax. In fact, Council Directives and the recommendation of the Commission of the European Union are transposed into the Slovenian acquis. Indirect taxes are among the three most important tax sources of the budget. We also attribute an important city to them in times of crisis. That's not gonna happen. Harmonised indirect taxes have played an important role in the implementation of the concept of free trade on the old continent. But there are problems. The value added tax is often a target of avoidance and concealment. Remember just a few years ago, the media, much less the courtrooms, are filled with "missing traders" and so-called "tax merry-go-rounds". The problem with tax evasion was Martin Krpan, one of the first in Slovenian history. Part of the Slovenian tradition. The law also provides for a higher amount of annual tax turnover, in which a small taxpayer will be included in VAT, a practice of EUR 25 000 is raised to EUR 50 000. In Positive Slovenia, we estimate that the threshold may be too low, but to raise the entry threshold Slovenia must also obtain the consent of the European Union. In changing the threshold, the Council is, in fact, bound to two limits. The first relates to administrative simplification of the procedure and the second condition implies that there is no greater impact on the amount of tax revenue or income. The measures proposed by the novels, in our opinion, undoubtedly mean a certain reduction in the tax administrative burdens, which is good, so we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Once again, everyone, welcome! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Law provides some solutions to reduce the tax administrative burden of the economy, particularly micro and small enterprises, single companies, independent entrepreneurs and also farmers with complementary activities on the farm as one of the most important parts of the Slovenian economy, in particular simplification in meeting tax obligations and introducing uniform rules on the issuance of invoices. These measures also contribute to a simpler and more transparent tax system, which will ensure a more complete collection of taxes at lower costs for taxpayers and lower costs in the management of the tax collection system in tax authorities. The main solutions and the proposed measures follow the Government's adopted guidelines on the tax policy of Slovenia and comply with the two directives of the Council of the European Community. The measures following the Government's adopted guidelines towards simplification for taxpayers and towards lowering the costs of procedures, tax control of smaller taxpayers are, in particular, an increase in the threshold for entry into the VAT system from EUR 25 000 to EUR 50 000, which Slovenia, as we have already heard, must obtain the Council's permission, which means that the higher threshold can only be applied after the approval has been obtained. Second. Special arrangements after a paid realization for small taxpayers, for those whose value of taxable traffic in the last 12 months does not exceed EUR 400,000 without VAT. And a third. Issued a revised account on the basis of a decision of the tax authority, which has so far been a problem in practice. There were difficulties in correcting VAT deductions when irregularities were found in the tax control process resulting in a change in VAT obligation, as found by the decision. Such a decision cannot be the basis for deducting VAT from the recipient of goods and services, so the amendment of the value added tax law makes it possible for the taxable person to issue an adjusted invoice based on the decision of the tax authority, which will give the recipient a basis for deducting the entry VAT. However, the measures that follow in line with the two directives of the Council of the European Community represent and bring major solutions with the aim of combating tax fraud, in particular the type of 'tax wheel' that has so far exhausted the national budgets of all EU Member States. These are the following new rules. The new rules concerning the place of provision of services for the provision of means of transport and vessels for long-term rental to a non-taxable person shall give rise to the principle of taxation at the place of destination. The newly-coordinated rules on VAT accounting obligations in intra-Union transactions also allow for the comparability of information according to the recapitalisation reports for intra-EU supply of goods and goods. New rules for the issuing of invoices ensuring that the invoice is valid throughout the European Union, with the exception of the regulated cross-border supplies subject to the reverse tax obligation and for supplies taxed outside the European Union. The new rules also apply to the issuance of accounts and the storage of accounts on the basis of equivalent treatment of paper and electronic accounts, provided that the authenticity of origin, integrity of content and readability of the account is ensured. However, the conditions for electronic accounts are not bound by rules governing electronic commerce, but are defined by this bill. The proposal for a value added tax law follows the coalition commitments that this government has also fulfilled step by step, and therefore the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members supports these proposals in order to reduce administrative burdens for small taxpayers, to reduce the costs of tax control and to act against tax fraud.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u36	Respected and respected! The amendment to the Value Added Tax Act lays down the solutions relating to the place of supply of services, as regards the rules on the origin of value added tax duties in transactions – these are now considered to be completed at the end of each calendar month, as regards the correction of the value added tax deduction on the basis of the decision of the tax authority, as regards the rules on the issuing of invoices, the rules on the keeping of accounts and the special arrangements for small taxpayers. Article 21 increases the threshold of taxable transport for the use of special arrangements for small taxpayers from EUR 25 000 to EUR 50 000. We welcome this in Social Democracy because it to a certain extent improves the liquidity of small businesses, but we do miss the promise of the Slovenian Democratic Party to reduce the deadline for the refund of the overpaid value tax to 7 days after the payment of the value added tax and the reduction of the deadline to pay the value added tax to exporters. During the previous term of office, the Slovenian Democratic Republic has twice or even three times tabled a proposal for a value added tax law, a reduction in the VAT deadlines and its reimbursement. Sadly, though, we can see that these promises are being forgotten. The former government has reduced the VAT refund from 30 days to 21 days, and unfortunately, this government is not making any effort in this area when the economy's liquidity is deteriorating radically. Nevertheless, in Social Democracy, we do not see any obstacles to not supporting the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a bill to amend the law on public finances. The draft law was tabled by a group of 36 Members and Members, with Mr Jank Webro, first signed. With regard to this bill, the Group of 10 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jank Webro, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the bill, Dr Andrei Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u38	Your Honor, a very nice greeting. In July this year, in the Group of Social Democrats, together with colleagues from Positive Slovenia, we tabled a bill amending the Law on Public Finance Balance. At the time of the consideration of the savings law in the National Assembly, we have pointed out that Article 143 of the Law on the Balance of Public Finance in a Selective, Discriminatory and Unconstitutional way intervened in the acquired as well as in the expected rights of some pensioners. You rejected the proposed amendment at the meeting of the National Assembly in July this year. In view of the disproportionate and unfair interference in the rights of victims, there are 12 thousand complaints of injured persons, the opinions of some prominent legal experts, and, last but not least, in June of the debate in the National Assembly. You have also expressed your thoughts to the Members of the DeSUS and the National Gazette. In the coalition, you decided that by September, appropriate amendments to Article 143 of the ZUJF would be prepared. We are October, and 26 thousand pensioners have already received a lower pension for the fourth month and the promised changes to the law are not yet in Parliament. Therefore, with the support of Members of Parliament and Members of Positive Slovenia, we have again tabled an amendment to this Article of the Public Finance Balance Act. Let me briefly summarise the reasons why. The Government intervened selectively in the rights of beneficiaries to special pensions. On the basis of the provisions of Article 143, paragraph 2, and Article 143, paragraph 3, of the Zujfa, pensions have not been reduced for all but only 26 thousand 300 pension beneficiaries under special conditions. In doing so, the Public Finance Balance Act does not specify any criteria on the basis of which such distinction would be justified in any way, except in order to withstand legal judgment. If the intervention is so selective, it is discrimination and it is manifestly unconstitutional. Second reason. The measure is unfair because it reduces the rights acquired more than any other target group. In doing so, the government has not only negatively aligned with the law on the pensions of selected groups of pensioners, but, on the basis of the scale, those who exceed EUR 622 have reduced disproportionately on a permanent basis. Thus, the pensions of some pensioners have also been reduced by more than 25% following the entry into force of the savings law. A large reduction in their pensions means an excessive burden on these pensioners in overcoming the economic crisis. It is unfair that the reduction burden, which represents less than 1% of the value of all pensions, must bear less than 5% of the pensioners. And there's a third reason. The law also encroached on the right to an annual allowance of pensioners whose pension exceeds EUR 622 and this is EUR 210 000, which is why this annual allowance was not paid to them. The unconstitutionality of Article 143 was also pointed out by the Ombudsman, who had already submitted a request to the Constitutional Court in mid-July for an assessment of the constitutionality of this Article. Although the Constitutional Court has not yet considered the request, we can hope that it will recognize the apparent constitutional violations and repeal the contested article, otherwise we will be able to experience the epilogue of the story of deleted at the European Court of Human Rights. The novelty that we are considering is an opportunity for Parliament to correct injustices and irregularities adequately to prove that the principle of respect for legality and constitutionality is primary, so I suggest that you also support the amendment of the law before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We are moving on to shifting the positions of the groups of Members. Mr Roman Žveglič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u40	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, once again a good day! I would like to say the following for starters. We have also warned in the Slovenian People's Party in the summer that there is indeed a certain error in the Public Finance Balance Act. It is those who, under such or other circumstances, spent part of their working time in other republics, where they paid their pension contributions for that period and were completely unjustifiably involved in this crisis measure. They paid the contributions in one way or another; everything else is a real problem of the countries and their arrangements. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has already drawn up corrections coordinated by the coalition and will be in parliamentary procedure within a few days. It's about 8,000 people. That is why I will now speak exclusively of all the other solutions envisaged by this opposition amendment to the law, and from further discussion I will also remove these 8,000 citizens, whom we will correct. We are talking about the revisions to Article 143 of the Public Finance Balance Act, which has been tabled for the second time. It is a crisis law, a temporary measure as an adjustment to the economic situation and no one denies it. It is intended to affect practically all times of life, including pensions financed in part or in full by the State, so it is extremely interesting that the same article is the core of all debates. Are there problematic reductions in maternity leave, child allowances, student rights, the abolition of state pensions since the previous government — I usually say so-called deleted households — reducing social rights for the weakest in the family? Surprisingly, no. The main problem in this country is the pensions of about 3% of pensioners who were retired under specific legislative conditions. The problem is therefore those pensions that most Slovenians can only dream of, since they are not based on payments – at least not entirely. But what's even more interesting is that it's only pensions that are higher than €620. Therefore, after these tireless activities of the opposition under the laws tabled and many of the questions sent, we can conclude that this is one of the most important problems of this country. Now only 340,000 Slovenian pensioners who have spent their entire lives working in production and in all their years paying for the pension register can now only dream of 620 euros at the beginning of the month. Not to mention those special pensions that exceed 1,000 euros. More. Some of us have limited this law to a thousand 450 euros because they had previously moved about 2,000 euros. You may find that 2,000 euros is an appropriate reward for certain specific achievements, and you would not have any problem with that if the country were in excellent financial condition, but that is not the case today. We had to accept this crisis tax and reduce funds in proportion, so that the reduction did not affect those with pensions below EUR 622. It's true. We've also established exceptions. Exceptions from the reduction are certain persons whose state budget covers only a short period of retirement, for example members of the Territorial Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, who, due to a 14-day defence to an disproportionate extent, would be deprived of their pension, or those whose pension intervention would not constitute any financial effect, such as, if I am not mistaken, it is, according to the competent minister, only one more victim of war violence. Many times in the coalition we listen to criticism that it is necessary to take it where it is to take it to those who have it. Your Honor, this is exactly what was done with this article of Zuif. Relatively, given the amount of income, we've taken more from those who have more. 300 euros sounds huge, doesn't it? But if we are talking about a thousand 100 euros — after a reduction — of a high pension, it is no longer a number that would mean such drastic denial. Last but not least, my mother has less than €400 in pension, and my father as an active participant in the war on Slovenia has €420 in pension. I'm talking 340,000 euros. On the one hand, we have those who have fulfilled the conditions of retirement based on age or working age and who receive the pension they receive, often too low for a person who has worked for 40 years or more, and on the other hand a group of people who have acquired certain additional pension rights over the years, to a very high extent. Now I am asking what is the alternative to the current regime. Linear reduction of all pensions – that is to say 27% of pensioners? Should we cut everyone by 10%, including those with 400 euros or less, as well as those with a thousand 500 euros? Who do you think will know better? Ladies and gentlemen, we are working hard to get this country on its feet in order to take the steps that we should have taken years ago in order to get the total public finances in order. Therefore, I thank the opposition for helping us to do so. It is true, however, that their proposal for opposition has no financial effect. The opposition that this law proposes costs nothing. But they're going to become a state. More than 20 million euros a year. With this article of the Public Finance Balance Act, we have not made any new social problem, but some have felt the state of crisis. They're not the only ones, and they're not the most affected. We will vote against this law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. We would rather try reforms to ensure a better future for the many pensioners who are already struggling to break through the month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Plevčak on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. We have before us once again a proposal for amendments to the Law on the Balance of Public Finance, which we have considered and, for the most part, rejected at the 16th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in July. I admit, a very welcome proposal to delete Article 143 of the Law, except for the first paragraph, which deals with the coordination of pensions. And the first should be DeSUS, which today would support this law in any way. This is the opinion of many who turn to the DeSUS Group, the opinion of those who have been affected by Zujf, the opinion of the Union of Retired Persons of Slovenia and also the opposition. At the previous reading of this same law, we told the DeSUS Group that according to the public financial situation, it is unrealistic. At that time, the Minister explained that it was 60 million euros to be provided for this year's budget expenditure. Someplace even more should be taken than was taken from Zuif. In doing so, let me remind you that Zujf has intervened in a balanced way in the face of the crisis, which is supposed to have at least partially eased through the austerity law to all social groups. Among other things, the reduction in salaries for civil servants is linear to all by 8 %. This has affected the working population, the parents who survive and train their children, and many of them have also solved the housing problem. In contrast to public servants, workers in the real sector are even more affected in times of crisis. But not only did their wages go down, but thousands of them have lost their jobs, which means they're completely out of every income. The country contributes billions and 440 million to the pension fund budget. One third of these funds, namely 440 million, are intended to cover the payment of those types of pensions which are not based on contributions paid. They are exceptional and stem from specific rules that have enabled retirement under more favourable conditions. Of course in the previous system. In the case of pension savings and an annual allowance, the current Public Finance Balance Act was based on the view that it should not fall into under-average pensions and that it should not extend to those pensions based on contributions paid, i.e. past work. As an average pension, the law defines the amount of EUR 622. This amount was thus directed towards the reduction or deletion of the annual pension allowance, which covered all types of pensioners and the reduction of pensions above that amount, which are set out in the second Article, namely Article 232 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. The average age pension according to September figures is now EUR 613. The beneficiaries of the old pension, which has a pension of less than 600 euros, are of all pensioners, together with almost 590 000, which are also counted under this article, which I mentioned earlier, about 214 thousand. The fact is that some of the so-called privileged pensioners also receive three times the average age pension. I should also remind you that pensions have not been harmonised for several years, as provided for in the pension law, since in 2010 we only reconciled the pension in half, in 2011 they were only harmonised for a quarter of the salary growth, and in this year absolutely nothing, they are completely frozen. We still believe that saving in all the segments drawn from the budget is necessary and urgent. Our generally accepted position was already at the time of Zujf’s adoption – and we still advocate that austerity measures can only be applied to the part of pensions that are privileged and which are not due to paid contributions from the past work and are above average. In our view, a linear reduction in pensions would not be appropriate or fair. Saving pensions is expected to touch everyone — except those who are socially at risk. With such measures, the State stabilises public finances and ensures the financial sustainability of the pension system in order to ensure that pension and disability insurance rights can also be guaranteed and paid from the pension fund in the future. In the DeSUS Group, we receive many responses from pensioners to Article 143 of the Public Finance Balance Act. It was clear from their letters that they were disappointed and hurt, but most of them were also aware that our country is in the midst of a deep economic crisis, which requires serious, sometimes even extreme measures. In the DeSUS Group, however, we have decided in the previous examination of this same law that certain corrections are needed in the savings law, that some have been wronged and that they will have to be rectified as soon as possible, of course under the assumption of commitment to make contributions. The draft government proposal for correction of Zujf, which, according to our assessment, has rightly approached the revisions of the current text, is already in place. For reasons of the main objective of the Savings Act, we cannot support what we are dealing with today, or we will make a final decision when we vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting also to young visitors, future parliamentarians! Let me remind you that, during the adoption phase of the Law on Public Finance Balance, the New Slovenia Group entrusted the Government with monitoring and thorough analysis of the effects of this law, which we must all agree is extremely complex. We are pleased to note that the Government has carried out this analysis or that it has already made any adjustments to the Public Finance Balance Act, Article 143, and we also expect that today, tomorrow, this law will be incorporated into the National Assembly. Now for the intro. Last autumn, the state of Slovenia fell into a dramatic public financial situation, with, inter alia, a serious threat to the financing of the state budget, the debt of the country exploded and increased to 47.4% of the gross domestic product at the end of the year. Last year's public deficit was 6.4% of GDP, more than in 2010, when it was 5.7% of GDP. From the end of 2008 to the first quarter of 2011, the country's public debt increased from 8.2 to 16.4 billion euros or by 8.2 billion euros in total. Relatively speaking to the size of GDP created in the previous government, government debt has more than doubled, from 21.9% to 47.4% of GDP. That is why the five-party coalition has set itself the task of stopping Slovenia from falling further in many, not only public financial indicators, and of taking Slovenia on the path of regrowth and on the path of a successful European country, as we all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia deserve. In this project, the stabilisation of public finances is a first priority. The stabilisation of public finances means, inter alia, a balanced state budget or a simpler one, awareness and conduct of the principle of 'we can spend only as much as we create'. At the same time, we do not forget and take parallel measures for economic growth, which is a strong correlation with the stabilisation of public finances. We swear to claim: stability for growth and growth for stability. In New Slovenia, we want all responsible citizens, especially those who are entrusted with responsible functions or jobs, and that the crisis that we know is not the current nature, but that this situation in society and the country, is taken as a challenge, an opportunity and a necessity to rewind every piece of the work process or management process and to find out why our system is so terribly bureaucratically rigid, rigid and, above all, extremely expensive. The adoption of the Act on the Balance of Public Finances in the Field of Compulsory Pension and Disability Insurance has been followed in particular by the principles of equality or fairness and proportionality, which, when assessing and interfering with different rights, i.e. budgetary expenditure, ensure the same or at least comparable position and fair distribution of financial burdens. In reducing budgetary expenditure, all categories of beneficiaries to whom rights are granted from the budget are and must be in the same position, namely salaries in the public sector, transfers to individuals and households, families, pension deficits and also the specific rights of individual groups of pensioners, for which the State budget fully or partly contributes. I'm thinking Article 232 of the ZPIZ-1. The funds that will be saved by reducing budget expenditure are urgently needed to achieve the objective of public financial stabilisation. In doing so, it should be pointed out that Zujf and I have reached out to all areas where this was necessary and that there has been no longer any choice of other effective measures to bring ourselves closer to the desired objective. One fundamental principle in the preparation of the savings package was the adoption of such measures, which would burden the affected relative to their property status. Another important principle was the principle of righteousness. Those with revenues lower than the average of austerity measures have practically not felt it. The debate on how much someone has lost does not reflect the actual dimensions of the austerity measure and the austerity measure. If someone in an average pension, if someone with an average pension of EUR 622, apologizes if someone says to the public that his pension has been reduced by EUR 350, the pensioner with an average pension of EUR 622 seems to be a shocking figure. However, if we know that it is the recipient of the pension obtained on the basis of specific rules under more favourable conditions or with a more favourable dose, which will receive €1450 per month instead of the previous €1800 next year and a half, the data is not so spectacular. It is true, however, that in the case of the Public Finance Balance Act, this is the first such marriage package in the history of the Slovenian country that takes citizens. Therefore, it is understandable that the individual’s response to the measures has been affected. However, in the overall assessment of the effects of the Public Finance Balance Act, these must be assessed for the reasons that led to the austerity package, the poor economic situation in the country, which is due to the global economic crisis and the unwise decisions in the past. In the New Slovenia Group, we stress that the Public Finance Balance Act has temporarily reduced only pensions that do not have coverage in paid contributions. In doing so, we have in mind all 16 categories referred to in Article 232 of the ZPIZ-1, which refer to Article 143 of the Public Finance Balance Act. We also believe that the soldiers of the former Yugoslav People's Army should probably demand money for their pensions for success. In particular, we stress that we should clearly divide pension insurance, i.e. pension into a trend of merit. The latter should be paid, for example, from a social, not a pension. Finally, it is worth noting that the proposal for amendments to the Public Finance Balance Act proposed by fellow Social Democrats does not contain an explanation of the financial effects, the payment of the annual allowance, and the source of the necessary financial resources to cover the shortfalls saved under Article 143 of the Public Finance Balance Act. For these reasons it is necessary to establish that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Balance cannot be supported. And that is how the New Slovenia Group will act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mag. Barbara Žgainer Tavš on behalf of the Group Positive Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When I listened to the presentations on the positions of some of my fellow Members before me, I must say that I am indeed in the dilemma of how to start with the presentation of the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. So many different dilemmas have opened up to me that I really don't know what's fair and what's not fair in this country. I really don't know if we all believe that the luxury of a pension is EUR 623. I heard that today, and I can't believe it. But I'm saying that being honest is something, and if we're all honest together, it's only right that we sometimes admit and correct mistakes. Otherwise, I say that we are unfair to the people, to the people to whom we are speaking now, all Members and Members have caused injustices, even though some have made clear what will happen if the Public Finance Balance Act comes to life in practice and we have voted against this government law. But I'm going to say that I'm collecting guilt and I'm taking part in my responsibility. And since we are able, some Members and Members, to take over part of our responsibility, we have also prepared a change of law. With this amendment of the law, we correct the wrongs. And I will begin with the words I wrote down in one thought that the government opened Pandora's box at the beginning of its term. Scandalous cases are still flying from this Pandora box, whether there are political games or planned manipulations that we are witnessing today. Sorry! In this context, a number of scandalous statements by some individual government Members have recently taken place, as well as ministers, who apologize for their mistakes with regard to the need for quick adoption of laws that are in fact of a reform nature. You will probably recall that when the Prime Minister passed a law on the balance of public finances, this government criminal law, he threatened us that since public finances need to be consolidated, we need to adopt this reform mega law, otherwise even early elections can take place. And the law was really adopted. Once again, what was happening in the adoption of this government law, which reached out in 49 sectoral laws, was actually a parliamentary unique in our country. Unacceptable work, which we strongly opposed in Positive Slovenia because, for the first time, this law was not based on analyses and projections of what individual solutions would bring in practice. Secondly, because there were several solutions in it, which also in the view of the Legal and Legislative Services pointed to a constitutional dispute. And the third time, because we received him in the time stake, without proper knowledge and knowledge of what the law brings. I'll say, look at him, a month later, the ministers are looking for excuses for what they're doing. Those who have prepared the law with all responsibility, at least I hope it is responsible, and also supported it until the adoption of it in the National Assembly. Minister Erjavec likes to stay in his place so I won't say "godlike image" to the cameras to brag about protecting his pensioners. And he admitted that he didn't know what he was accepting, that he was misled by the government, his government. To correct his mistake, he promised his marriage by the end of September. And this law is supposed to correct the mistakes made. None of this happened until the end of September or until today, October 23. That's why I'm saying words are too cheap. Even when his parliamentary group was invited to co-sign our proposal for a new law, we did not receive support. For example, honourable Members and Members, I am now addressing you and DeSUS as well as the Citizens' Lists that you have a new opportunity today. I do not accept the excuses that the cancellation of pensions has occurred because of the privileged pensions, the ratings that have not been duly granted. Such statements, according to my assessment, reveal the real purpose of government saving, which means ideological accounting with some categories of pensioners – just some. For this price, the government was prepared to cut into international treaties and overrun even its own constitution, which should be the highest legal act, the Bible, if you want, of politics. In her annual report for the past year, the Ombudsman made it very clear: "The law must not directly cut the already-spent pension in a decision." That is exactly what you, honourable members of the government and Members, have done with the Public Finance Balance Act – a disproportionate intervention in the budgetary rights system, setting the price of €622. All that is above this amount, all the pensions above this amount of EUR 622 are, in your opinion, the excess pension, the luxury that can go into the quota of "unfair" social transfers and can therefore simply be abolished. I'm afraid that's the real purpose and purpose of doing that. It's not right and it's not fair! You have suffered in the grave of 27,000 pensioners with the Public Finance Balance Act. You have also taken away up to a quarter of your income from the political electorate, your pension. Is this really a proportionate intervention in rights? Participants of NOB and other war veterans, Spanish fighters, national heroes and carriers of the partisan monument, victims of war violence, more than 8,000 people were employed in the former Yugoslav common country, and contributions from work were equally paid to the state pension system. Then there are internationals, refugees, labour deportations, recipients of exceptional pensions for special achievements in the field of sport and culture, including top athletes, cultural workers, and miners, not to mention all the categories affected by the government's law on public finance balance. I will say again and turn to the representatives of DeSUS or the President of this party, who is the government's party and who is responsible for doing so, in support of the reduction of pensions, he did not really know what he was doing because the government, his government, did not give him all the details of the law. I seriously wonder how far an individual's ignorance of this House can go, and I will now say in general, to the electorate and electorate or citizen and citizens of this country. Now that a mistake has been made, today Minister Šuštersič also publicly acknowledges. At the same time, the government or some government ministers are still trying to find excuses for what they are doing and are still looking for excuses for why only some or some groups of pensioners will still be excluded from Zuif and also new pension laws. As we have heard today, the government's proposal for a law to be drawn up will only eliminate the injustice for 8,000 pensioners. In total, around 27,000 pensioners were affected by the Public Finance Balance Act. I am also concerned about something else — the ideological aspect of this government’s work. In Slovenia it is actually embarrassing to be a top athlete or, here, I will use the words of one of the commentators in one of the Slovenian newspapers. I quote: "The government of partisans takes the money substitute for blood and sweat, which they have incorporated into the sovereignty of Slovenia." They are not the main pension, and here I turn to one of the speakers in front of me, the pensioners, about 3,000 mentioned them, which are sort of superstandard, and he added – over €640. Allow me to repeat today, because I want to outline the real problem, the consequences of the Public Finance Balance Act, the stories of those people who have been affected by the law and who do not have pensions of EUR 2 000 or EUR 000 or EUR 800 to see, hear and perhaps realize that they have indeed been made mistakes. Today we have a chance to correct these mistakes. I'll quote the stories. "For the gradual abolition of coal mines in Slovenia, the Slovenian government has passed the law on exceptional pensions in coal mining. It's not about superstandard pensions. I adopted this law myself and retired in 1999 with a 31-year working age. My entire working time was regularly allocated to the pension fund and the state did not contribute anything. Since I was still nine years old until the full pension age, that is 40 years old, my pension base fell by 18%, 2% for every missing year. The pension decision, which I received from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, states that my pension is guaranteed by the Republic of Slovenia and paid in full from the State budget, but only until the retirement age, then the pension payment is transferred to the STIZ, i.e. the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute." That was the law, that was the decision. And what are the consequences of the new government law on the balance of public finances? This person, this gentleman's pension has been reduced by EUR 100, to EUR 641. This is not a super standard pension of EUR 2 000 or EUR 1 000 800, because the problem, as it was said, should be just these pensions. Second story. My grandmother worked in Macedonia for seven years as a nurse. At the time, it was not another country, but the fraternal Socialist Republic of the same country. Then she came to Slovenia, got married, worked until she retired, and now she was reduced by 140 euros or six, because she is so short of seven years. When she worked in Macedonia, she regularly paid all her contributions. Third story. At that time, a 16 - year - old boy had to work in Bosnia against his will, in a lignite mine against his will, at the age of sixteen in the former common country. This gentleman, today a pensioner, from his own country Slovenia, will experience a new punishment. He's got a 50-euro pension. Nor does this gentleman receive an extra-standard pension of EUR 2 000. And the category of war invalids, those who have paid for the defense of the state with their health. You know, you took part of the pension from them, I'm guessing. Unrepentantly, they or those people should feel an immeasurable respect and gratitude for their noble action. Also yesterday, in the reply of Minister Viszak to my question of the mission, I felt the transfer and, in fact, the minimisation of the issue of the reduction of pensions or the deletion of certain categories from the pension register. This will also be done by the new pension law. Pensions that do not have a basis for payments will simply be characterized as a social transfer, thus opening up a free and legal path for the government to abolish these social transfers, which are linked to the social status of an individual or family, so to speak, censorship. I say that this is about redefining values, and as they point out in the Social Chamber, remodeling the social state, which is expected to bring in an additional 100,000 poor. You know, politicians can also, with their conscious or unconscious work, when we press a button, actually generate fear and uncertainty. This privilege is ours and we must be aware of it with all our responsibility. I say, however, that with all responsibility we can also contribute to positive solutions, such solutions, which constitute a collective spirit that means justice and honesty. As I conclude slowly with the presentation of the position of the Group of Positive Slovenia, allow me to conclude by inviting you, as the Group of Positive Slovenia will support the amendment of the law, to do so, to warn or to all those who still do not know what Zujf has brought and what our novels bring, in fact, to explain one key mistake that some have made or say today. The Public Finance Balance Act, which allegedly unduly affected the pensions of 27,000 pensioners, did so not for a short period of time, this intervention is time-consuming and permanent. Not to be eloquent about emergency austerity measures. I say that this is a very clear and planned action of government policy. To these people, this National Assembly, this government has taken away the right to a pension permanently. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The law that we have drafted in the opposition, in SD and Positive Slovenia, and which is before us today, is actually correcting the injustices that I have been talking about, and I believe that the injustices that we will be able to expose during the further debate today in the National Assembly. It would be right for all of us to be aware together of the responsibility of our work towards citizens and citizens, including those, and I will say once again, who, with their lives, paid their health so that today we can live in a independent and independent Slovenia. It is right that we are proud of every citizen of this country who lives here, who has ever contributed and who will ever contribute in the future for us to live free, happy lives. I hope that this is a big enough reason to really support the proposal for a new law. All those who say that the law is flawed and that you have comments on the law will have the opportunity to make your comments or corrections in the form of amendments at second reading. That is why, as has already been said, the call, as the Positive Slovenia Group will do to support the amendment of the law by the other coalition MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Ms Romana Tomc on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Public Finance Balance Act was adopted primarily with a view to reducing budgetary expenditure and stabilising public finances, with particular attention being paid to ensuring that those with low income are least affected by the measures. The principle of solidarity was one of the fundamental principles that was taken into account in the drafting of the law. Thus, the funds were fairly and proportionately reduced for all social groups, recalling public servants, pensioners, families, young people, disabled persons, war veterans and many others. However, the reduction has also been fairly and proportionately distributed within this group, which is mentioned today and within all social groups. Pensioners who have obtained a pension with paid-up work contributions have already taken on a heavy burden by means of a pension freeze measure and adjustments to the payment of the annual allowance. For pensioners who, however, receive additional rights which do not have the right and the basis of paid contributions to the Slovenian pension system and therefore receive pensions which are not and which are partly or fully an obligation of the state budget, Zujf has established a so-called negative harmonisation. This means that the law did not affect the right alone, but limited only the amount of resources provided by the State budget to finance this particular part of the special benefit. There are still rights, the conditions for their acquisition have not changed, and all these laws, the special laws governing these rights, are still in force today and in an unaltered form. In this area, too, the measures have been deliberate and have not affected payments of less than €622. We've heard it many times before, and let's do it again, because it's often forgotten. The budget pays about 1 billion euros per year for work pensions, additional budget money and 440 million for those pensions or benefits that have the nature of special rights. Given that more than €100 million is earmarked for this year's non-coordinated pensions and lower payments for the annual allowance, and some €18 million for the so-called exceptional pensions, it can be concluded that the measure is adequately balanced. The burden of savings was thus shared between the two: among the so-called real pensions and so-called extraordinary pensions. As it is said, distribution is also proportionate within the category of exceptional pensions. This provides an adjusted scale that allows for relatively more contributions from those who have more higher pensions and less from those who have lower incomes. Given that an exceptional pension of less than €622 has not been affected and that even after Zujf's establishment, an extraordinary pension of €150 can still be made available, it would be difficult for pensioners who have to live with pensions on the brink of poverty to claim that it is an injustice and that it is a drastic and disproportionately difficult measure. It is also difficult to accept the allegations made by the beneficiaries of exceptional pensions or advocates, as we have already heard today, that they are persistently repeating in public the punishment of punishing specially selected groups of pensioners. Such arguments can only stem from insufficient knowledge of the pension system, and especially of the current 232 Article we are talking about. The same applies to ideas on linear reduction in remuneration. Let me explain. This Article includes very different categories of beneficiaries who in many cases do not have any common denominator other than that the source of their right to payment is the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, for example, in this category, in this article and in the Republic of Slovenia, they are covered by the funds for the so-called State Budget Pension, the persons covered by their pension under their status. These are, for example, workers who worked in the production and processing of asbestos. In this same group, beneficiaries are also entitled to a non-achievement of the conditions for full pension. These are, say, those unprotected mothers in the first year of their child's age, the unemployed, the disabled. In the same article, the Republic of Slovenia shall cover contributions, not for pensions, but for the contributions paid by the Republic of Slovenia for, say, workers in disabled companies. I believe we'll hear a lot more stories today. They are very suitable at this treatment, but many of them, more than 26,000 of them, each of them is special, their own, and it is wrong to abuse them and make stories out of them, taken out of context. Anyone who has been deprived of any right has his own destiny, of course, and no one is easy. Due to the great diversity of rights users, which are defined by specific and completely incompatible laws, only the payer in this article is the same, as the Republic of Slovenia says, of course, it was also necessary to consider among these groups, among themselves incomparable groups, whose beneficiaries are those who absolutely should not be granted measures from Zujf, because they would otherwise be disproportionately disadvantaged. Among those who have been exempted are those whose state budget covers only a very short period, such as a 14-day period of retirement, or those whose pension intervention would not mean exactly any financial impact. In determining the categories exempted from Zujf, there were no criminal purposes or ideological divisions, but taking into account the principles of equality and proportionality, the only and key criterion was how people with the lowest income were affected as little as possible. This also applies to actions in the field of the annual allowance. One of the categories of pensioners whose pension has been reduced, although they have contributed, is those who were insured with insurance providers outside Slovenia, but at the time still within the single state of Yugoslavia. We also believe in the SDS Group that their situation should be treated separately or as an exception. The appropriate solutions for this category of insurers and pensioners have already been presented to us by the government in coalition coordination and, as I am aware, an appropriate decision will also be taken today at government level. With the bill before us today, we cannot agree. We believe that we would allow the burden of austerity measures in the area of the pension system to be borne mainly by low-income pensioners who have spent their entire lives paying contributions, so we will not support the proposal in the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u50	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. In the Group of Members, it is noted that the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act has resulted in affected, desperate, angry and indignant pensioners who have been reduced by a savings law by a measure in Article 143, some even by more than 20%. Many pensioners also lost their annual allowance. We Social Democrats have tried to correct some of the consequences of the implementation of the Public Finance Balance Act since July this year, when we, together with Members of Parliament and Members of the Positive Slovenia, tabled a new law in the work relating to pension rights under special conditions. By amending Article 143 of the Law on the Balance of Public Finance, we wanted to abolish the intervention in the pensions of beneficiaries on the basis of Article 232 of the current pension law and the right to an annual allowance. We have estimated that this is a selective discriminatory and unconstitutional intervention, both in the rights of pensioners acquired and expected. This is not least demonstrated by a number of objections and complaints made by pensioners who, on the basis of the measures laid down in Article 143 of the Law, have disproportionately reduced pensions obtained under special conditions or have been disproportionately affected by the right to an annual allowance. Thus, the Ombudsman, who has submitted a request to the Constitutional Court for an assessment of the constitutionality of Article 143, with a proposal for a stay of enforcement, a challenge to the legal provision, considers that. Although the application for temporary suspension of the application of Article 143, the Constitutional Court has not accepted and the constitutional assessment request will be considered as an absolute priority. Social Democrats believe that the arguments set out in the request for a constitutional opinion are sufficiently justified so that Article 143 of the savings law in the work under appeal proves unconstitutional and is consequently repealed. At the 16th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, it was also found on the coalition’s side that adjustments to the savings law in the work relating to the reduction of pensions were needed under special conditions. Following the rejection of our proposal, information has been exchanged in the media that the coalition intends to draw up a solution by September this year to eliminate certain anomalies in Article 143. Since the government has not presented any proposal for solutions, we have again tabled an amendment to Article 143 of the Public Finance Balance Act. That the ruling coalition for the correction of Article 143 errors is not serious is also reflected in the 2013 and 2014 draft budget, as the funds for the payment of entitlements under pension protection are being reduced. The Government also intends to provide for a new pension reform granted under the specific conditions laid down in Article 232 of the current law, with the aim of removing the so-called cleaning of the pension allowance from the pension register and then to regulate it in specific laws. After the spread of pensions to individual areas, we can only guess what will happen to these rights. The question is whether these rights, which have been reduced by the Public Finance Balance Act in Article 143, will even be maintained as rights. The unequal treatment of pensioners will obviously continue with the pension reform and the proposal to clear the pension register. We are aware that the proposal for a solution proposed by the amendment of the savings law also has financial implications for the budget, but we believe that no saving can be an excuse for reducing human rights in the way that this government does: arbitrarily, without arguments contrary to the Constitution, and that is something that we must certainly not do in the rule of law. Therefore, the adoption of the amendment to the law we are proposing will actually reduce the unnecessary additional burdens of the budget due to the Court's judgments and the resulting compensation. We hope that those Members and Members who agree that Article 143 of the Law on the Balance of Public Finance will unjustly affect the rights of pensioners, support the amendment of the law and thus enable the correction of injustices and reduce costs in the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Dr. Gregor Virant on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u52	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Civil Gazette, we strongly support the gradual reduction of the budget deficit, because the state's headless indebtedness needs to be stopped, otherwise we will slowly drown in the public debt and interest we pay, and in the end no one will want to lend us any more money. That is why, together with other coalition parties, we have decided to prepare and support the Public Finance Balance Act, which, for the first time in the country's history, has structurally intervened in public spending and reduced it, thereby reducing the deficit in the 2012 budget balance. However, at the beginning of the mandate, we agreed on how we will save and reduce public spending. We said that we would first scrape where it doesn't hurt, where we don't interfere with people's rights, where it's necessary and inevitable, but we'll do it in a fair way, evenly, and so that no one will strike too hard, so that these interventions won't be drastic. And we also agreed to take special care of those with the lowest incomes, for the poorest. These principles were largely taken into account in the Public Finance Balance Act. The interventions were not drastic, except for the Church, which was reduced by 20%, these rights reductions were slightly-percent, for public servants up to 8%, and effectively there were between 3 and 4, because they simultaneously eliminated two tranches of wage imbalances, with a maternity allowance of 7.5%, i.e. 10% of the three-quarters of the maternity age. And even in article 143, which interferes with the benefits of pensioners, not all interventions are unjust and excessive. However, some pension cuts are outside the framework of proportionality and fairness criteria. We have already reduced some beneficiaries' pensions to over 20%. A particular problem is that insurers who have paid contributions to the retired cash republics of the former SFRJ are essentially only guilty of working in other republics when we had a common country. And the intervention in these people's pensions is unfair and discriminatory. The fact that, for example, prisoners in concentration camps, exiles, forced mobilizers and similar groups have been reduced to some €900, is also an injustice. This intervention is too grave, is not fair and is not proportionate to other reductions, for example by reducing the salaries of the officials we have reduced our salaries by 8%. And these stories that we've heard before are true. We have heard them too, and some are really pointing to injustice. This is very important to stress. It is extremely important to reduce public spending; it is extremely important to balance the budget, but it is also very important to see that injustices do not occur and disproportionateity do not occur. The goal is important, but the people we meet on the road to this goal are also important. This also raises the question of why exemptions were made for the reduction of benefits of the category set out in Article 232 of the Retirement and Disability Insurance Act. Although we believe that in determining the set of categories that are lowering their pensions, they were not guided by ideological motives, such an impression is being made. And that's the problem. It creates an impression of moments of ideological criteria and arbitration, and that is not good. When the government is pulling hard, ungrateful, unpopular moves, even though there are urgent austerity moves, it has to look even more at justice and equality, because it can only maintain trust in people. Without trust, however, difficult projects fail. We accepted the Zujf by rapid procedure, fast and effective. Quick action was necessary. We were aware of this in the coalition, and that is why we did it quickly and effectively. Of course, the urgency of adopting laws always entails the risk of making mistakes. And with Article 143 of Zuif, certain errors have been made. As soon as we were alerted to these errors, we promised in the National Gazette that we would be committed to remedying the error and that if we did not find a coordinated solution in the coalition by the end of September, we would also try to resolve the problem in cooperation with other parties. An agreement was reached within the coalition to prepare an appropriate solution over the summer. At this moment, we have on the table an opposition proposal for a solution, and the government is not yet in Parliament. The government has delayed us in solving the problem, either to support the opposition proposal, which is radical and destroys all the austerity measures of Article 143 of the Zujfa and creates a 60 to 80 million hole in the budget, or to postpone the solution of the problem. It's both problematic. When we announced that we could support the opposition's proposal, the summit of the coalition was called, and last night we were assured that the government would accept the correction of Article 143 of Zujfa at the letter meeting today. The correction solves one of the key problems, which is the problem of insurers who paid contributions to the retired cash republic of the former SFRJ, which is certainly a step in the right direction. If the Government adopts the correction of Article 143 of the Zujf until this evening's vote in the National Assembly or until the vote on this point, the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette shall have the desired effect. In this case, we will not support the opposition proposal today. However, we will try to upgrade the government proposal with an amendment that will also adequately address other categories of issues in cooperation with opposition parties. Under the coalition agreement, we also have the right to support some kind of opposition amendment if it is taken seriously. If you're serious, then you won't come with radical suggestions. 60 to 80 million interventions into the 2013 and 2014 budget are too dramatic. This country can't afford it. So things aren't black and white. And if we understand that, then I think that there is a reasonable, fair, wise solution here that will preserve this bright goal, balance the budget, reduce the deficit below 3%, and at the same time solve the problem of the people who have been affected. We're waiting for the voting class. We expect the government proposal to be ready by then. Part of the problem, I will say again, is a very important part of the problem being solved, because the fact that it reached out to the pensioners who normally paid contributions to the pension funds of the former SFRJ republics is not right. We shouldn't have done that. But for all the other categories, I think that there are solutions to be found in such a way that no one would be severely affected, so that, let's say, the 933 pension has been reduced to 733 euros, which is too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. It's Mrs. Masha Kociper's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Welcome, fellow Members of Parliament and Members! Indeed, so much has been said about this law, both in Parliament and in the public and also in the presentations that we have now heard that it is difficult to add anything in particular new. Therefore, let my debate in particular be an expression of my strong opposition to this and to such laws and to the adoption of them in the national assembly. This law in this national assembly should never have been adopted and means a black mark for its operation, for everything was wrong in the process of its adoption. Nomotechnic form first. For the first time in the history of our country and our Parliament, one law contained so many other laws, at the beginning of more than forty. This has already caused the proposed legislation to be highly imprecise at the start. Completely inappropriate, not to say unhygienic, was the way in which the procedure for the adoption of this law was proposed — by emergency procedure. For a law that so wide and so deeply interferes with the rights of such a large number of people, we should urgently take more time and thought, and this would allow us a regular procedure. After practically every article was given an amendment, its impreciseness became perfect, and it is no wonder that the representatives of the coalition, who pressed the keys, did not really know what they were accepting and, of course, their responsibilities did not burden them. This law is also special after the wide and extensive comments made by the Legislative-Legal Service of the National Assembly on its form and content. Unfortunately, these detailed and reasoned comments by parliamentary lawyers concerning possible illegality and unconstitutionality have not convinced the members of the coalition. Professor Matevž Krivic immediately expressed his indignation. "Let the economic crisis continue to be so severe that the need to reduce public expenditure is still so great, and there is no excuse for the fact that the government and its parliamentary majority, with an excuse to resolve the economic crisis, allows such obvious constitutional violations." End of quote. But the worst part of this law is not all the formal and constitutional shortcomings and violations that will now be judged by the Constitutional Court, but the fact that this law further separates our people. The intervention in the rights acquired must, inter alia, be proportionate, according to the Constitutional Court. Contrary to the principle of proportionality, this law, which deprived the other addressees of between 3% and 8%, severely arbitrary and discriminatory, reduced the pensionable groups selected by 20 % to 25 %. Among these pensioners, as has been mentioned many times, are internees, refugees and labour deportees, military pensioners, former JLA employees, retired under the law on the correction of wrongs and forcibly mobilized, and could still be listed. So together, more than 26,000 people. In view of the categories listed above, it is really difficult to avoid an ideological confrontation with a political opponent. Therefore, the violent reactions of those affected by the law are not to be disputed or surprised. In particular, because it intervened in their rights in a formally totally inadmissible way, without legal decisions, only by notification, which has also made it significantly difficult and has made the right of judicial protection completely impossible for some of them. In front of us Members, there is now a new possibility that, with the proposed amendment, we will correct the wrongs and injustices that have been committed, eliminate the claim of unconstitutionality and regulate this area accordingly. Even the President of the Constitutional Court, Dr Ernest Petrič, in his address to the pensioners in Jezerska, stressed that the pension was protected by two constitutional decisions, so it is the property of the pensioners who obtained it from their previous work. The pension is therefore a social guarantee and cannot be withdrawn from the recipient, he said. Most importantly, by adopting this law, we can conclude the ideological debates and divisions that it has caused. Ideological debates and divisiveness are enough for people. I'm sick of them, too. In order to overcome these objections and such policies, Positive Slovenia has also emerged. That is why it bothers me very much and hurts when citizens now accuse us, the new Members, of continuing the so-called ideological struggle. That's absolutely not true. We, who represent the opposition, have not adopted a law that has affected so many people and has triggered such violent responses. After all, we have not organized a controversial state celebration, abolished just certain holidays, proposed renamings and could even list them. We are only responding to the gestures of our political opponents, and I think that, especially when it comes to illegal and legal solutions, it is our duty. Or should we keep silent and allow these obvious unconstitutional, disproportionate and discriminatory provisions relating to pensioners to remain in our legislation? The answer is no, so today I am talking again and I am discussing this law and I am looking again at the right against colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament, asking them to support and correct the injustices that have arisen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u56	Today's Slovenian policy faces a new opportunity to remedy our mistakes, the mistakes that the ruling coalition has accepted in their homes in adopting the wrong concept of consolidation of public finances. And whoever believes today that this is the right path will be put back on the real ground with the following data on the decline in economic growth due to the decline in domestic consumption. This isn't the right way. We must at this time, and let this sound like I do not know what phrase, strengthen the confidence that this community is capable of solving the accumulated problems. And this cannot be done in the atmosphere of constant fear, the atmosphere, when confidence to the greatest extent possible is shaken and when no one believes that Slovenian politics is this boat, this boat, which the Prime Minister is talking about, is capable of taking to calmer waters. That's possible. Slovenian problems are not so great that with a series of smart, thoughtful moves of our economic position and the position of our economy, banks and, above all, people could not be saved. The key is to strengthen trust in this community. Remember that frog. If you put it in hot water, it'll jump out if you put it in cold water and warm it slowly, this frog will adapt and eventually cook. What this government is doing dangerously is putting the nation in overcrowding water all the time. It's just that you're overheating. And these feelings and this mood, this dissatisfaction of people will knock out this pot of his lid, and then the consequences of this doing will be irreversible. Major demonstrations are about to be announced. I call on sobriety to calm our passions in this country. Today, by adopting this law, it is one of the first steps to do so, to say, "No, we will not agree to a society of fear, we will not agree to a reduction of rights, we will not give up the rule of law, but we will say that what was once given is given and right." Not that many categories of people who have spent their entire lives paying contributions, but from today’s perspective and from these ideological optics, they had a position in society, for example, in other republics of the former Yugoslavia, paid their contributions — what are they today guilty of not admitting these rights to them today? What are the guilty policemen who the state has retired, the state has told them: "Go to your retirement!"? What was the blame of all those who, at the time of their retirement, fulfilled all the legal requirements of the law? Who is this generation that hopes to claim that these people do not have these rights? Your Honor, I urge you to be sober. The only way is the restaurant of the previous state, is to adopt the solutions that the Social Democrats and the Positive Slovenia have proposed with this amendment of the Public Finance Balance Act. You know, on the days when people received notices, not decisions, not notices, without one single word of legal instruction, they probably called many of us. I was most impressed by the memory of the gentleman — a comrade who spent the entire period of World War II in a guest. And with tears in his eyes when he didn't have a high pension, he said, "Why did they take away from me, why did they take away from me? Because I was partisan?" Because in those times when the nation was most difficult, he was willing to defend himself unselfishly in his homeland? Is that why we took this from him? That's why we took away the 100 Euros that gave him, not the luxury, but the survival of him and his wife. This is the wrong way. Slovenia can emerge from the crisis. Slovenia can solve its problems. But this will require a different thought in this policy, a policy that will inspire hope and inspire courage, because we will not overcome the current problems with warmth. If you push a person into a corner, he will bend, shrink, secure his back, and he will not be ready to think proactively about what he can do to strengthen his own economic and social situation and through this entire community. No, people's fear turns into cramps. And this community is in a huge cramp. We need to encourage people, give them more security, courage to think together about what we can do more and better in the given situation, to strengthen our position, and to be better for all of us tomorrow. We have to do this. That is why the entire economic logic of this government has been misplaced since the first day that this government took its mandate, because it is betting on the wrong thought, which cannot lead to a different conclusion than that the situation will only deteriorate further. I am seriously warning you against the social, economic and political consequences of such a policy. Coalition, I call you, accept our law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State made a statement. Aleš Zivkovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! I might first apologize from the government that the government did not present its opinion at the time envisaged in this debate. Rather, this opinion was adopted on one of the government committees at the time as part of the final reading, and I would like to present this opinion now. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia today adopted and sent an opinion to the National Assembly on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Finance Balance, tabled by the Group of Members and Members of the SD. The proposal for a law amending the Public Finance Balance Act provides for the deletion of Article 143 of the ZUJF in the work relating to the negative harmonisation of rights partially or fully financed from the State budget in accordance with Article 232 of the ZUJF-1 and the deletion of the reduction in the payment of the annual allowance. The proposed law would therefore eliminate the reduction of pensions that do not have the basis for the contributions paid, and would also eliminate the reduction of the annual pension allowance by the proposed law. The abolition of the provisions of Zujf and the calculation would have been valid for 2012 and this would mean EUR 67.5 million of additional financial impact to be provided in the country's budget. Unfortunately, Zujf's amendment proposal does not specify the financial consequences of the proposed law, nor does it mention the resources to finance the implementation of the proposed law. In the light of the proposed amendment referred to above, Zujf cannot be supported, and this is also based on the opinion of the Government transmitted to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič as a proponent, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u60	Thank you. According to the above words, we would first touch upon the definition of what kind of pensions we are talking about. You keep talking about pensions that have no basis in paid contributions. It was clear from Dr Virant's previous discussion, as well as from previous remittances from some Members, that you realized that there are still categories in Article 232 that have contributed, but have paid them elsewhere. But in this blind, I will say, you have not noticed that there are some other categories that have also paid contributions, specifically military insurers who have paid their contributions perfectly normal and have accepted the commitment to settle their pensions by Slovenia with the Annex E of the Law on the Ratification of the Succession Agreement. But look, this is how we can go – an ban five rats, from one to the other. What you will not solve, even if you accept this correction, is a fundamental criterion in how this law must be dealt with. This is the task that this Parliament has, which is the supreme guardian of legal conduct and constitutionality. And if the National Assembly can afford a violation of the Constitution, then I simply don't understand whether we really need to seek eternal reassurance in the Constitutional Court, but if we fail there, then in the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg. How far do these stories go?Oh, my God! My dears, many lawyers, I will say to the Constitutional Judges, they have told you that in this case selectivity is out of the question, because it is rights acquired, rights based on laws, disproportionateity and an intervention that has no legal basis. So he's discriminatory and unconstitutional. We "trace" our way forward, for "the goal devotes the means," said Machiavelli. The fact is, you have issues with numbers, too. When you wrote the ZUJF, you told us that these savings would amount to 27 million or 26.5 million. Now it's been going up to 67.5 million once. Now tell me, do you have math or did you show us the wrong data for the first time?Oh, my God! I don't know. And the third time. Again, it is an unfairly disproportionate measure, which will take a small group of 5% of pensioners, hugely or already took them, some 25%, we have taken 8%, 4% of civil servants, and so on, not to mention. No, we made the key sin goat out of this category. And if you do the cleaning according to your criteria, you will eventually find out — what? That the contributions were made in many other categories, but that, of course, certain categories were based on their special merit – they chose freedom for us, so today we can'rest', they were in camps and they suffered, they were wronged in the previous regime, and you will finally find that you have nothing left but an ideologically defined category. So, dear fellows and colleagues, it's not going to work! If we have as many faces as we have, we'll say no. The law must be adopted, the Constitution and solutions must be taken into account in a different way. Look, we've forgiven the economy 170 million so easily, and we're still waiting for something to come out of it. With big holes, we hunt in a sea of sardines if anything goes wrong. The same happened to us earlier when we fired the richest of the highest rate of income payments during the previous Janša government. The money is done – we know where. You know, if we're talking about justice and proportionality, then we have to look at everything, and then suggest that the highest wages go down. This will be justice and proportionality, not a violation of the Constitution here, because of a contribution that we can easily find in a different way without practically going against the basis of our action. We're a parliament. If we're still a parliament. But if we're not, we're gonna move on with that bra. But the bills will be on display. If not before, the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Dr. Gregor Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u62	Thank you. Well, things aren't black and white. On the one hand, we are all aware that we have no alternative but to go along the path of balancing public finances. We have spent over the past years, each year, a country I speak, a public sector, spending 2 billion more than it did in the budget. And if we continue this way — where would we go? She needs to be stopped at some point. At some point, this has to be stopped because otherwise, literally, we would drown in debt, we would drown in interest. In the end, everything that was collected in the budget would be paid only for interest, so to speak. But no one would ever lend us money anyway. Look where we came from. We must now be happy that on the US financial markets we have received a loan at an interest rate of 5.5%. We have come so far that we must rejoice that this is a success. And it's a success, because here the finance minister has done a lot, he has presented the situation perfectly, presented the government's actions and solved the liquidity problem, so that by the end of this year we can have money for wages, social transfers and so on. And people of God, if we don't stop it at some point, then we're really gonna crash. And that was Zuif. If we hadn't done it quickly, if we hadn't done it effectively, if we hadn't cut it into public consumption, then things would have gone the same way towards failure. I don't know where we'd be today if we didn't adopt this law. One side of the medal. But the other side of the medal is, of course, that I absolutely agree that when it is being saved and it interferes with public spending, that it must be done in a fair way and proportionately that you do not overly harm anyone. And Article 143 of Zuif probably hasn't been on the wallpaper for so long. It probably wasn't without reason that there was so much resentment on the part of people. But in your proposal, you went too radically, too far. Let's say a year's allowance. I've been talking to a lot of pensioners. People in this country understand that there is something to be done, and they are willing to give up something, public servants, pensioners, everyone else. And the intervention in the annual allowance was within these frameworks. The vast majority of the pensioners I talked to said, we understand this, this is something we have to do for the country, the scale is not criminal, it's taken care of for those lowest pensions and it's somehow all right. And this part at the annual level is about 30 million. That really wouldn't have to be the case. This is a case that is closed, which is settled and I do not know why such a radical proposal had to be made. On the other hand, it is true that in some cases the attacks are such that people have been justly indignant. Someone who has worked for a lifetime or a large part of his retirement age in a company that has paid contributions in Bosnia, Croatia, Macedonia, anywhere, there is really no reason for him to be discriminated against compared to the one who worked in Slovenia. Since it was a common country, he did not know at the time that we were going to win, and he must have the same rights as those who paid in Slovenian PIZ. Many times it was that people didn't even know, they were companies, say, Croatian, Serbian, Bosnian, which had businesses in Slovenia, but contributions went to those cash registers. And that's unfair, and I completely agree, and that needs to be resolved. Even if I take the example of these people who have actually suffered a lot in life, let's say those who have been expelled to concentration camps and so on and then at an old age, let's say you lower their pension by 20%. That's not working. And these people are justifiably indignant, which means that we need to find a solution that will at the same time preserve those austerity effects that are acceptable, that have not caused tears and resentment to people, and on the other hand, we must eliminate those interventions that have justified such indignation. People have a sense of what is wrong and what is not wrong. Some sacrifice, some pay cuts are ready to be accepted. Once again, public officials have lost about 4% of their lives. Some a little more, some a little less, just depending on how the wage imbalances were. Moms, for example, have lost 7.5% of their maternity pay effectively because in the last nine months this has dropped by 10%, and then this is a total of 7.5%. The pensioners lost this recreational allowance on a scale higher when the pension was lost more. And the ones with the lowest were protected. In this context, everything was fine, there was no resentment, some bad will, some bitter letters, tears, and so on. And in one part, that's how it was. That's why we say this part has to be corrected all the time. We must not see things black and white, as is usually the case in this House. Everything's wrong, you say, and on the other hand, say, someone will say, everything was fine. The truth is somewhere in between. An intervention was needed. Zuif was needed. Public spending had to be reduced, but where we did wrong, it would have to be eliminated. I seriously expect this government proposal to be adopted today. That's how we were assured yesterday, promised, he'll come to Parliament. I'll be assigning it this afternoon to Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. And then this is the opportunity to upgrade it in the second treatment. We could start with yours and upgrade it, start with the government and upgrade it. But the problem with yours is that it's financially radical. This is 60 to 80 million on an annual basis, 30 million on remuneration and once again on annual allowances. Such an intervention would be difficult to deal with and would again be in a situation where we are unable to structurally cut into public consumption. So let us wait for a government proposal, accept it at first reading, if there is a regular procedure or if there is a shorter procedure, let us upgrade it at second reading with amendments. We are committed in the Civil Code to examine your amendments carefully as well. But I would ask that when you're preparing such things, if you honestly think that if you want to solve people's problems, let us connect and turn to us and introduce ourselves first, and maybe we can find a solution. For example, in this particular case, we did not discuss this law. Perhaps we could find an intermediate solution when you have prepared this proposal. But I'm saying it's not too late, it's still possible to save. By the end of this year, the solution will be adopted. Reliable is the way of solutions for those who have paid contributions to the pension funds of the former SFRJ, but for others we can take the time to resolve the matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin, followed by Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u64	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! When we talk about Zuyph, the question often arises whether it is a matter of economic policy or a matter of quiet lustration, as some have written. I strongly argue that it is not a matter of lustration, but of purely economic policy. Those who say that it is some kind of silent lustration, first and foremost answer two questions. The first question is if this is true why we have not already done so in our first term, when we had an even more comfortable majority, in the 2004-2008 mandate. If that were true, why are there very different groups among these groups that have been deprived of something, not only ideologically homogeneous, but virtually all social groups, from fighters, to families, athletes, cultures, veterans of war for Slovenia and so on. I think it's a completely groundless observation that it's some kind of silent lustration. If we look at the matter a little bit in numbers. Today, many of you have spoken or represented a variety of individual stories. I will point out just a few of the most famous Slovenians who have also made their data known to the media. One of these is the famous athlete Miro Cerar, who says that he lost 350 euros in pension at a thousand and 400 euros in pension. Another such case is Mrs Svetlana Makarovič. She also claims that she lost 350 euros in pension for a thousand 400 euros. Of course, this is not about the pension, but it is mainly about the additional budget allowances. Finally, the former President of the Republic, Milan Kučan, lost part of the budget allowance. These are the most exposed cases that have occurred in the media. I'm not saying anything new. But once again, I want to make it very clear that Zujf's policy was economic, especially how to balance and put our public finances in order. This was a fundamental objective and a fundamental purpose of the Public Finance Balance Act. When I walk in Slovenia, many pensioners ask me where is that money that we spent 40 years paying in the pension register. If we had a different system, if each pensioner were to invest in an account on his own, and when these funds were to be nobled, let's say that at the end of the day, it would have some added value to everything he paid. But it is very clear to the pensioners that we do not have such a system, a state-run system, but that all our contributions that we employees will pay this month go directly to pensions. And at the end of the year, these contributions are still too small for more than a billion. Only in the future budget, which is now ahead of us and which we will debate in the coming days, are there a thousand €422 million for pensions, which is supposed to come from the budget, not from contributions to be paid, but from the budget. And now those who know how to blow people's souls very well and speak very dramatically when we put together a budget should be asked if we will give more for budget supplements if we will give more for pensions to whom we will give less. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, we'll give less to the nurses, give less to the teachers? We can also give less for investments, all of which are opportunities. When we draw up the budget, we need to put it together and balance where we're going to put things together. It is clear that if there are no new investments, there are no new jobs, and that is what you stress in Positive Slovenia. Without new jobs, of course, there are no new contributors to the pension system, and once again the circle is complicated and we fall even deeper into the hole. When you're in opposition, it's very easy to do things, and also things seem to be relatively simpler on the opposition side. I am sure that the Social Democrats, although they are now upset and commenting in the meantime, know very well that they have sat in the government in the previous term and know that it is a little different responsibility for the coalition councillor and that there is much more to be allowed in the opposition. For this reason, I understand the policy of Positive Slovenia, which is more or less the policy of it or, say, in the last three times the policy period. They say "no" to saving or "no" to reducing spending because it endangers the social state. Then they say "no" to debt because it's too expensive, they say "no" to new taxes. I'm just asking them all how to ensure the normal functioning of the country and how to end and start together. If I finish, I can say, as I have said many times before, that Zuyf is not a silent lustration, but a simple economic policy. Of course, we can talk here about Zujf's justice, and I think this is an essential issue that we need to address today. But it is also clear to everyone that the criterion of righteousness is very different and that everyone has slightly different criteria. For some, for example, combat additives can be fully justified and this is a criterion of fairness, and for another part of citizens, these supplements are totally unjustified. All I'm trying to say is that things are different, but not just in the fights, even in the family, in families, when certain things have been taken from their mothers, they're justified for some, not for others. What I'm trying to say is that the criteria of justice are different. Today, it has already been announced that the government will prepare Zujf's correction and that this correction will relate mainly to those who worked in the former service, in the former JLA, and so on, and have paid some kind of pension contributions. These things are going to make things better, and they're going back to the way they were. But the fact is, no one can deny that when accepting this Zujf, however, is looking at the weakest and that we have tried to get those who have the lowest pensions anyway and avoid them, and Zujf has not hurt them, including my old mother, who has just over €400 pension. Finally, I will only say here when we talk about justice and how to reduce this expenditure to a fairer level, the question is whether to reduce everyone's pension a little bit, but then also those who will come forward, are likely to hear from colleague Barbara Žgajner Tavš when we lower everyone equally, including those who have 400 euros in pensions. That's not fair either. Now we have not done so, now only those who had slightly higher pensions have had reduced incomes. In short, these are the dilemmas that are ahead of us and that we will have to resolve and everyone will look at these things in their own way, but I hope that we will, however, prepare a document together with your suggestions and with the proposals of the government, that at least in part we will all be satisfied together in some way.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u65	Dr. Gonch László. Replica, mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I'm going to say that it's actually hard to replicate on such a vile performance, but let me do it because I feel unharmed. I feel obliged to react to your performance because, I believe, people who listen from the temple of democracy are suffering such a low blow. And let it sound so populism from my mouth, I stand by those words. Yesterday I received on Facebook a letter from one of the citizens of our country saying that the war was invalid 1991, one of the many who this country stole from them a monthly disability and other benefits. He goes, "I'm sorry that my shed blood was paid in this way. I wonder – below – who else in this country will be willing to raise weapons to defend their homeland, which mother treats her sons so macholy." Dear colleagues and colleagues! This is the point of today's debate, which we also want to make public in the Group of Positive Slovenia. It is wrong to do what you do and stop justifying the injustices caused by the hysteria of austerity measures. You read "no" three times positive Slovenia. I say, four times "no" to this government and so humble humiliation of our citizens and citizens. Where is the bright future for this country if you keep showing how little people are worth and their dignity? It's not just numbers that determine life. There are people behind these numbers. I have also told you in my presentation of the position of the Social Chamber that there are 100 thousand new poor people to come to us because of the effects of Zujf. 100,000 new, with one of the highest levels of poverty among pensioners in the European Union already now exceeding 20%. Therefore, I say, it is wrong, this law has brought injustices and in Positive Slovenia, together with the SD, we are trying to correct what you have ruined. And if you'll excuse me, if I have so much time in this part of the replica [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u67	Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, that's all I would have warned you, the replica means to explain where you were misunderstood.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u68	Look, because I'm trying to do this, I was completely misunderstood in the part where we fellow Members of Parliament seem to be populism. I have read the words of one of the citizens and citizens, and I strongly protest that this is the way to talk about our people. About those who fought for their country. Their lives, their dignity is worth more than the populism statements of government Members, who are obviously concerned only with numbers within the budget. I hope and understand that my replica is positively accepted and that in the future, at least those who try to discredit individuals in our country will be limited from such discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u69	Procedurally, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I regret this debate, this replica, which is an eclectic example of the abuse of rules of procedure. I am very sorry to be accompanied by Slovenian public and schoolchildren here on the balcony. And when a colleague tells his fellow Member and evaluates his debate for its understatement, this statement implies that he is a leper and we must not, Mr President, allow him in this temple of democracy if there is another piece of culture here in this house. I ask you very much, Mr President, and any future members who will preside over the meetings of the National Assembly to take away the word of any Member or Member when the debate goes to such a low level. Me, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. I agree with you that this is an abuse of the replica, and I also agree that such an expression is not appropriate in the debate of a fellow Member or Member. We cannot say for each other that we are discussing evil, each of us is expressing our views, and I must say that there were very few such markings in this mandate, and it would be very good if we continued to do so. Procedurally, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u72	Dear President, I am glad to hear that every time you point out the abuse of the replica, which has been repeatedly mentioned in the National Assembly and has continued to be mentioned. However, when you mention and evaluate and warn Members of Positive Slovenia, when, how and how a word is used, I remind you that the word "share" in the Slovenian language exists and is also used. However, for a warning that we will clear up the terms, this expression first came from that side and not from that side. And the absolute use of the replica was because it was misunderstood, of course, used on this side to show what was being misused. So, President, first, before you use warnings for this side of the bench, first look at the magnetogram of what Mr Tonin said, and then we will talk about justice, which is already wrong in this law, because each eye sees its righteousness in its own way. That's it. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u73	Thank you. I'm going to read a magnetogram, if any such word has been uttered on either side, it's inappropriate, and I really suggest we stick to it. We can discuss harshly, we can discuss passionately, but such words as corrupt, vile and low and so forth, and I suggest that we do not use them. I think we're gonna talk a lot better, and we're gonna make a better deal. The text is by Dr. Göncz László.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! With regard to the claim that a selective intervention in the rights of certain social groups in the context of the adoption of Zujf was wronged in view of the previously acquired rights of many people, objectivity is held in my opinion. In the context of the question, I myself have illustrated the problem in this regard in the case of former interns who were specifically forced to move out of Petišovec, probably also due to political reasons at the end of the 40th century, who, at least for some, also with the lowest pensions, had already violated the rights acquired due to the change in the way in which pensions were calculated, as well as for many others. But at the same time, given the difficult circumstances of our society, we must also understand that, in view of the more stable sustainability of the pension fund and the determination of the amount of pensions, long-term solutions can be based only or to the maximum or maximum extent possible on the paid contributions of employees. However, exceptions are always present, as is the case with Zuyfa, which all society’s circumstances prejudge. I am aware that the most difficult thing to do is to find an optimum estimate of where to draw the line for possible exceptions. Above all, it is difficult to achieve the criterion of the highest possible degree of objectivity if, unfortunately, partial, party-political or ideological interests are at the forefront of the decision-making process, which has, unfortunately, always been present if we are honest with ourselves. Therefore, the highest level of compromise should be sought in this regard, where the expert rather than any other factor should decide to the greatest extent possible. In such important decisions, a broad political interest based on consensus should prevail. Unfortunately, this has not been the case with the adoption of Zujf, and not today, as I have estimated from the debate so far when the opposition party proposes a change of law. The bigger problem is no doubt that, in my humble opinion, in terms of setting exceptions, neither the adoption of the law nor the proposed version has been sufficiently precise. However, I certainly understand the SD proposal as a warning, worth the attention. I believe that this warning, with all seriousness, is also accepted by the government, which should propose the most optimal solution. Let us hope, on the basis of the Secretary of State's statement just a few minutes before me, that this will happen. In anticipation of the decision of today's bill, I am most inclined at this moment to press the quorum key, which in my view is a warning to both the government and the opposition parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Dragan Bosic has the floor, followed by Mrs Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. I hope to meet the criteria of a decent debate and respond to your call. Children are treated to a certain age according to the principle of trial-error. That's what they're learning. Try something, and it's not O.K., so don't do it again. At the time of Zuif's admission, we were alerted to mistakes. We wanted these mistakes not to occur at all, and then they would not have to be corrected. Yet, these mistakes have occurred. A mistake is said today, mainly every debater uses the term error. In my opinion, it's not a mistake, but it's a mistake, and error is the most important mistake of will. This means that people who made decisions like they did did not make mistakes, but they expressed their will. And for this purpose it has proved to be wrong, at least as most agree, up to one segment of citizens, to be pensioners and pensioners. She's even discriminatory. If the coalition accepts the explanation that it has made a mistake, it is quite childish. But if she says she acted in harmony with her beliefs, then she admits to discriminating. My view is that this document – a constitution that clearly shows direction – must be followed the only acceptable course in making such decisions. This means, no matter what she decides now, I hope that she will decide wisely, although I am concerned, I think that injustice should be corrected for the people who have been harmed. However, as far as low pensions are concerned, I absolutely agree, the Constitution states that we are social and we would all like to be a development society in order to raise pensions in the future, with some appropriate strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u77	Mrs Kristina Valenčič, for her Mr Renata Brunskole. If she's not in the hall, Mr. Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. It is clear that with certain measures in Zujf, in particular in the area of pensions, we have acted disproportionately on the rights already acquired, as we are now considering the second amendment of Article 143 of Zujf and the two are waiting for consideration. I myself have supported Zujf and I support him today, because I believe that the adoption of these measures was necessary. We had to adopt certain structural cuts to align state spending with what we create. The measures have also addressed areas that are particularly sensitive to citizens. I am convinced that most of these measures are balanced, that some of them are temporary in nature, that they are fair and that they do not affect the rights of those citizens with low incomes. Regrettably, pensions have shown that this is not exactly the case, so the disproportionateity found must be corrected. The government has kept its promise and is preparing a proposal for amendments. All current proposals, both the opposition and the government, do not adequately address the problems, so the government proposal will need to be upgraded further to reduce the country's payments to all beneficiaries who do not have the basis for paid contributions, i.e. without exception, for a percentage comparable to the austerity measures in the other areas. We have already heard today that some pensioners have also received more than 20% reduction in pensions. Of course, I do not belong to any of the categories of beneficiaries that represent these exceptions or privileges, as some call them. However, I am convinced that all these rights have legitimate grounds, and therefore they are also regulated by law. However, Zujf is not a suitable field for discussions as to whether all these categories are justified or not. This is aimed at a pension reform aimed, inter alia, at cleaning up the pension register in order to ensure that the pension is based on the contributions paid. I agree with that, too. The proposal that we are considering today cannot be supported, as this proposal is destroying the austerity effects. We are here to think about tomorrow, so consolidation of public finances is a priority, and the proposal is going in the opposite direction, so, as it is said, I cannot support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u79	Mr Jerko Chehovin, followed by Mr Matjaž Han [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. I have no doubt that there are honest people in Parliament among the coalition members with integrity and loyalty to their principles, but they are becoming victims of the system, which marks their manoeuvres. In fact, the policy has become reduced only to budgetary management under the Maastricht criteria and to the implementation of the Pact's guidelines for growth and stability. That is why we are ready or ready to sacrifice the principles of the rule of law. While some may feel discomfort, it is just that you feel this discomfort. But you haven't done enough. It should be borne in mind that this incriminated 143rd article was actually that ugly stain on this Zuyfu, which in fact gives thought in the sense that this is an ideological accounting with some categories. You're fixing some things for yourself. And so it is, but I think it would be better to admit that the injustice has been committed and to correct this 143rd paragraph in its entirety. Let me get this straight. In Slovenia we have 280 thousand pensioners who receive pensions outside the criteria of the basic pension law. 47 professional groups are in this category. But you chose five, I don't know what criteria, and 26,000 people. Well, these are the proposals made by the government, you will acknowledge its error, caused by 8,000 people who were innocent if they worked in other republics or if they worked in Slovenia in a company that was established in another republic. It was absurd, however, that people who had spent 40 or 35 years paying contributions and did not care where they paid and where they paid. They've done their part. But you've penalized them, too. Now they will get, but among them some people who have been sent by the state to work, let's say, I give the case, to the federal administration, where in those difficult times that we don't like to remember, the governments of Milka Planinc and Branka Mikolić fought to ensure that Slovenia provided foreign exchange quotas and import quotas and resources and rights that our industry could operate. For this period when they came back, some have also lost up to €350 in pension. And they say why you sent me back then. I, too, was in the bodies of the Chamber of Commerce that sent such people to work for the federal administration. Well, you'll fix that. I hope you will also fix for all those who have a basis in paid contributions. Now I will focus on only the part that I cannot accept, that among these people, the so-called outgoing population of NBO fighters, who, if you ask them now, when they went with weapons against the invader, knew where to pay their contributions, where to pay their contributions. Was there such a fund during the war? They had their own fund in fighting with a weapon in their hands against the invader. That was their fund. And that's what we've confessed to them, and we've also confessed to them by means of a constitutional charter on independence. That is why I am saying that this part of people is also disadvantaged, on an unconstitutional basis. This same parliament or congregation of then adopted a law, a constitutional law that protected the rights of the fighters. Who we are, I ask you who we are, whether we have the opportunity or whether we decide to take away what many countries have acknowledged, including the new Slovenia. Not as a client, because if you were a client, you probably would never get it. Therefore, I find it truly cynical to say that the measures in this 143rd article, which, by the way, came to that famous night meeting of the Committee on Finance and monetary policy against the morning, where there are several other issues, such as those that you later had to withdraw under the pressure of trade unions, such as, say, that during working hours, there are no more military, study years and so on. Then you have changed that, as you are now changing some, depending on the pressure of individual groups or on that, I hope that I am wrong, even of any related relationship, or if there is some injustice in the family and it is being corrected and others are not. That is why I think it would be much more fair to go back to the rule of law and to correct ourselves and not wait for the Constitutional Court to correct these cases and injustices. When you ask some how to fix it. For nine months now, we've been telling you that this government, this coalition on the income side, has done absolutely nothing. That's a fact. Economic growth is also on foot and falling. But with these measures, when only some individual groups take some of the rights acquired, we will not strengthen economic growth. However, we will cause strong mistrust in all the ways and spheres of our society. That's already present. I think it would be much fairer if you could not decide to let this law go through today, at least, to go further and try to find solutions that will be appropriate, and above all such solutions as will be legal. No more insisting on illegality. I expect this Parliament to show its integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u81	Mr. Franz Jursha, Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u82	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! The topic that we are discussing today is very sensitive to the different populations in our country. It is true that this article, which we are talking about today, has significantly affected Article 143, and has also been unfair to the specific groups of our citizens and citizens. We all agree that it should be corrected accordingly. It is true, however, that there is a certain difference in thinking – some of you insist and want to correct it and thus increase the expenditure from the budget. You're also saying there's nothing done on the income side. You know, it's very hard on the income side to do anything if there's no money. For a parable. I recently heard a statement from a citizen on TV 3, who said to a journalist, "Yes, take 500 euros out of this pocket if I have one." That's a real parable. But let us move on to more serious questions. A billion 440 million contribute the state budget to the pension fund. Even one third, that is about 440 million, is intended to cover the payment of those types of pensions that are not based on paid contributions. The party and the parliamentary group to which I belong, however, have been saying over and over the last period that there is a need to clean up the pension register. We have different opinions here, and I respect these opinions. However, I do know that if someone has paid into a pension fund, he is entitled to receive a well-deserved pension from this pension fund. However, for those who have been granted privileged pensions by the State, we need to provide funds from another address. Our party and the parliamentary group have never and never said that it should be taken away from some groups – we also ask the government to correct these injustices. And I am sure that the correction will already be in Parliament today and that this correction will be such that it will solve most of these problems. However, if he does not save, we have also agreed in the coalition to amend and correct certain matters. However, in doing so, respected colleagues and colleagues, we must take into account the capacity of the country at this time. The country, as you know, is digging into financial problems, we are in a major crisis and money simply cannot be scattered. As an average pension, we have set about EUR 622. You know, this average pension, which was 600 euros in September, receives more than 214 thousand pensioners. You know that money isn't easy to survive with? And we can't take these structures. Linearly, they can't be taken away, simple and simple, because then they really won't be able to survive anymore. There's a lot of them, but they're getting an even smaller pension. Some who received a privileged pension have an average of 3 times that much. And then, of course, the proposer here simply and simply took a certain amount away, even though, if we were to be revealed, he would be most pleased that this government could leave everything to everyone. But austerity measures simply and simply do not allow us to do any harm. But these interventions must be fair to all. My suggestion is to save the injustices that have been committed. We are, of course, saving them with a proposal that I expect to come today and that this proposal, even if not as we wish, will be with the amendment that will solve the problems of most of those affected by Article 143 of the law we are talking about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u83	Thank you. The word is given by Mr Matjaž Han, behind him mag. Ivan Vogrin, if he's not in the hall, Mrs. Patricia Schulin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Why do we ask ourselves the second time today and try to solve the problem in the opposition? Because the government, despite promises before the summer, did nothing. And it is an interesting fact to me when I listened to the President of the National Assembly, who is waiting until 5 p.m. for the Government to take a decision, and his Members are already saying that they will not accept our proposal or the law. Mrs Valenčič made that clear and said it out loud. But let's just leave it. Too bad there's no Matthew Tonin in the hall. I can be naive, I have to say one thing. I believe the government isn't about lustration. I believe them. But one thing I do know is that when they talk about economic policy, they have a very bad economic policy or nothing. Why do I know that or think that? When you do not have an economic policy to be able to raise funds in the budget, you simply start saving, cutting and in the same way that this government does, in some selective way, which is very close to it. Once you reduce pensions in a selective way, then you raise VAT again in a selective way. In fact, this selectivity is accompanied by you both on expenditure and on revenue. Very interesting. That's when you don't have an economic policy. And the yellow book and the idea of MPs and SDS Members who were in opposition when they talked about economic recovery, opening up new jobs. You haven't opened a job in the last year, so you have to do in some way what you do to save money and continue to do wrong to people. Matthew Tonin stabbed me with one comparison about Mr Miroslav Cerar, our Olympics, with which I believe that we are all the proudest together, we like to be painted by politicians when athletes achieve good results and give him in case he has a thousand 400 euros in pension. Shameful! This gentleman has done so much good for the promotion of Slovenia that he deserves this pension. And I have something to tell you when we're talking about users of extraordinary pensions, which Mr Miro Cerar is, and it's true that we're only talking about 240 people. And if this is a problem for this country, ladies and gentlemen, we must close the country down. Miroslav Cerar is a problem, Mrs Makarovič is a problem, culturers are a problem – these 240? And with this you want to save the budget? Shameful. 8 000 people who worked in the republics of the former SFRJ also abolished pensions, participants, as said by Jerko, NOB and Spanish wars, national heroes, partisan monuments, 7 000 500 people you took pensions, interns, refugees, retired people under the law on pension and disability insurance rights. These are 3 000 950, which went not because of their will, but because of the law adopted by this Parliament in 1992 and so on. And one Matthew Tonin, who was walking freely at the time, or doing more than we fought for this Slovenia, speaks of Miroslav Cerar. I would never hope to do that. You're saying you won't support this marriage because it's not good because we don't know what kind of marriage we are. I'll give you a proposal, let's let it go today, I agree, let's make an amendment to pensions. I believe that some pensioners are willing to give up this allowance. Let's do this. But some of the pensions they've earned through their lives, we can't tear them apart. I am sorry that we are always speaking just before the 12th, although I am sorry to say that the government will do something because we in the opposition have begun to correct the Public Finance Balance Act. We have another law in the procedure that restores to war veterans, fighters, etc. the rights that you have permanently forfeited to them. When you read your coalition contract, it writes and refers the entire coalition contract to solidarity, to equal opportunities, to connectivity, to caring for a fellow human being, to patriotism, but you, with these actions, cut off all those words or just dead letters on paper, and I don't think that's right. If it is solidarity to take away 25% of the pension that has been earned from people, but to some nothing, or to some who have wronged themselves that they have taken nothing from them, some institutions, then I do not know where this solidarity is. Mr Virant said that I, too, may agree that 70, 80 million in these times is extremely difficult to get on the income side or where we will get them. But when I listened to it yesterday in the budget, you said interestingly that the pension reform, when adopted, I believe that, with my help, it will save 150 million euros on short notice or next year. All members of the previous opposition said that the pension reform had no impact in the short term. And what else is it? In the evening, Mr Karel Erjavec, a pensioner, very interestingly, comes to Studio City and says that we have again elected that pension coordination will start to rise to 50%, and that is no problem, 50 million euros taken. It is very unsystematic for me to understand that this government is working or as much as any president agrees and can be liked in front of the press. I propose, ladies and gentlemen, that you accept only that this law goes forward, that we somehow amend it, that we agree and correct the injustices of the people, 26 thousand people have suffered a lot of anxiety because of the selective action of this government, and some who have had a thousand 200 euros, a thousand 100 euros in pensions, which is large, which is 350 euros or 250 euros, it is not easy. Dear Government, economic policy is important, only you don't have it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u85	Mr. Vogrin is not in the hall. Mrs Patricia Schulin has the floor and Mr Srečko Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u86	President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all who are present in the hall! For about two hours there has been a discussion about the Public Finance Balance Act and so has it. I've listened to everyone carefully, so I wouldn't repeat the words. In one part, the opposition is right, and in one part, it has a coalition right, but I would like to pay it all back about ten years ago. We all remember these years, except probably two of our young Members, and all the other 88 of us are so old that we can remember that easily. So ten years ago, when it was not so difficult for us to reconcile the budget, when there was no big problem with the payment of pensions, I would like to remind you of the period between 2000 and 2002 when the Minister of Finance, Mr Anton Rop, was Prime Minister from 2002 to 2004. At that time, I repeat, to all, not only to those who did not contribute to the pension fund, one pension with a skilled manoeuvre was unpaid, with a manoeuvre that we all remember. They suspended payment from the last month to the first of the month and the elegantly unpaid few billion current euro pensions to all pensioners. And then everything was quiet. Where were you then guardians of the fighters, guardians of former refugees, interns, military insurers? Even then, it would be good to hear from you today. Once again, it did not pay the pensions to all those who paid and to all those who did not pay the contributions. If we can get into the current situation, where the whole European Union is and is wider in some economically poor situation, when it is concerned that the weak economy also reduces budget expenditure and thus the budgetary deficit. Zyphus must have caused certain injustices in some part too, as we admitted before we all went on vacation together. I was also expecting this change that the government had just made, and we all got this government opinion on the bench, so that Zujf would change in that part, where he also withdrew part of the pension for the contributions paid up to 31. 3. 1992 when it was paid into the cash registers of the former republics of Yugoslavia, and this will now be improved. About ten years ago, under Mr Rob's tactics, it was taken away from all pensioners, and about 300,000 Slovenian citizens were deprived of one pension to which they were entitled. This was not in accordance with the Constitution, with legal conduct, and it is also right to talk here. Nor is it wrong to take such a critical look today at Zuif or some other measures that this government has taken, but with this assumption and the state in which we are in. Our problem, in addition to the problems that the whole EU has, is, and I will repeat myself here, a 9 billion debt over the last three years. Where did this money go, and where did this debt in our economy reflect? We also know that 20 billion euros have been drained into tax havens, because of poor bank claims, there is a hole of €6 billion. That is, if we add this up quickly, about €35 billion has gone up somewhere. Responsibility will have to be sought for all of this. In addition to everything else that plagues Europe, it is at the heart of our country's problems. I also believe that if we pour ourselves pure wine, if we persist ourselves, we will be able to trust ourselves if we have the necessary patience, sobriety. Nevertheless, it is necessary to listen and coordinate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Happy Meh has the word and then the mag. Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u88	Dear Members and Members, Mr President! I apologize for the smile. It wasn't about this subject. It was about the comment. We are today talking about what happened ten years ago, and it's history, and we haven't learned anything. Today we are talking about what we will do to change the law that we have adopted in this national assembly and is bad and has done many wrongs. This is said to be the right thing to do today by adopting this law, as well as by correcting what we think is wrong, to do what Parliament should do. Parliament should adopt such laws and decisions as do not create new injustices and take citizens and citizens on an equal footing, on an equal footing, on an equal footing. And that's actually wrong what we're talking about. I'd like to ask: how many jobs have we opened up at this time? What have we done to make people feel better? The representative or head of the DeSUS delegation said he knew that pensioners were hard to live. I'm sorry. A lot of Slovenes and Slovenes have a hard time living. What did we do to make life easier for them? Nothing. We've even increased their problems. We talk about the red star, we talk about celebrations. And that's not lustration? We're talking about things that are very important to our history. Right now, it means something has to be done for people. And it is the responsibility of the Slovenian government and it is therefore right to do something in the National Assembly. But, I'm sorry, Mrs. Tomc said the interventions were thoughtful when we were taking Zuif. And if the interventions were deliberate, ladies and gentlemen, it's terrible because the result is extremely poor. And because of this, I am afraid that the measures are deliberate and that they have had some content or consequences that we do not yet know and should do something about it. It is bad because the law has infringed on rights, as someone here today has said, which we have adopted in Parliament, the laws have given people rights. And if we've reached for the rights back, where are we going to stop, ladies and gentlemen? Where are we gonna stop on the right to go back? Whom will we take back our citizenship to, and what else can we do here? That's why it's not right to do that. It's bad because people lost their rights and their money. But even worse, people are hard to live. And the worst part is that they don't see how we're going to get out of this, because we don't see a solution, we're only tying belts to those who don't have anything to tighten. And it's bad because we passed a law that we took people out of without a decision, with one piece of paper that wasn't even signed, they got a notice that their personal income or their pensions had been reduced. That's bad. Mrs Tomc also said that there are many stories because there have been stories read here, but these are not stories, these are the fates of people who cannot live, who come to us, each of us, and talk about what happened to them, the fates of partisans and partisans, and workers and workers, and all those who have gone to Bosnia, Serbia and elsewhere in the common country to work because this country has sent them and today do not have the pensions they should have. Here are the fates of the partisans who went into the forest to fight. They weren't whiteguards, they weren't local traitors, they weren't warmed up at home. And today we took away what this country gave them and the athletes and everyone else. And that's terrible. We haven't fixed any stories. We've opened 27,000 new stories. 27 000 Slovenes and Slovenes we have made for our opponents, those who say that we are indeed sitting here in the national assembly, who should not be sitting here because we should be doing something else. And that's actually bad. Let me remind you that we did not accept the most difficult category of personal assistants, nor did we accept it. Now how? We have reduced public spending for the poor, ladies and gentlemen, not for the rich. Who should we take? It has to be taken from the rich! Those who have something. That he who has 620 euros in income is a rich man, and that is probably no one can claim that. Now, here's the thing. I'll try to tell you, and today it was also said. We gave 250 million euros to the rich at the beginning of this year. By reducing the profit tax, we gave the rich 250 million euros. That's how much they got him. And that's what we did in the marriage when we adopted him at the beginning of the year, we talked, let's not do that, there won't be any results. That's where we got 250 million less in the state budget when you ask where that money would come from. Now maybe one more thought. In this Slovenia, there is no one in this country who would not be willing to help come out of this problem if we know what the goal is, when we will achieve it, what resources we must take and what the way is to reach this goal. But all we do is to reduce consumption, tighten belts and work only to have even less use, make it harder for people to live, there is no hope and no confidence that no one will say when it will be done, that we will get out of this situation that we are in. But someone should have told you when this was going to happen. For all of this, it would certainly be right not to strain the belt of those who have nothing to take from them and to contribute at least something to it. I'm sorry, someone in Parliament today said whether it's okay for us to take it all. It's not right for us to take everyone because there's nothing left for some people to take. It is necessary to take those who have it or have it, as we think. But we expect the Slovenian government to make such a proposal. This proposal, which was adopted, is that Zuyf, which was adopted, is not a proposal that I could be proud of. And one more thing. Mr. Tonin actually hit when he was talking about the opposition. He won because we share in ours and yours, in position and opposition. Today we are not proposing an opposition law, today we are proposing a law that will amend the law that we have adopted in this national assembly. It's not about sharing, because in the end it's my fault that the 27,000 lost one of their incomes that they've earned. So it would be right not to talk so much about ours and yours that we don't talk so much about position and opposition, but to talk about knowing how we're going to get rid of it. Our proposal is the right proposal, so I propose that you also support it in this consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u89	Mag. Borut Ambrožič, and then Mr. Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, chairman. It would be hard to add to what my forerunner said. Some thoughts may be repeated, but I have also fallen into my eyes today when we received the Government's opinion, this sentence from the Government's opinion that Zujf follows equality and fairness by not favouring or excluding individual categories of beneficiaries from austerity measures. However, this has obviously happened, since it has excluded more than 20,000 existing beneficiaries, many of whom have turned to me as a Member, to bother them in particular, as well as me personally, that the law interferes with the rights to return, they are disturbed by the fact that, as former exiles and other categories, they have been deprived of the necessary EUR 100 or 150 that they have been able to add to their current pension and that now makes it impossible for them to live a normal life. That is why I personally believe that the amendments to the law are absolutely necessary and I support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u91	Mr. Jožef Kavtičnik, Mr. Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Chairman. With this law, all we want in the opposition is to eliminate those anomalies that were adopted by the coalition in Zuyf. See, today I am listening to the coalition MPs and I see that they have also found that mistakes and injustices have been committed, but in a way that they would listen to children who are inexcusing their actions indefinitely because they are afraid. Those kids are doing it. Those who are not afraid have always made a clear and shameless admission of error and then continued to do what was right. And that's what they learned. This is what we expect here in the temple of democracy. In a democratic country where Slovenia also belongs, so I hope and I wish, we Members are obliged to oversee the work of the government, but not only Members of the opposition, and to warn the government when it makes a mistake when it works unlawfully and unconstitutionally. Unfortunately, however, only members of the opposition are reminded of her mistakes in this assembly. Members of the coalition follow the government's directives blindly and deafly. Of course, at times in a relaxed conversation, you may also say that you do not agree, but you must do so. You know, when there is a crisis, we have no right to work in such a way as to create new injustices under this cover. No, the crisis must not be a cover for creating new injustices. In Zyf, which is before us, we want to correct the injustices that the government has written down, and you have supported this marriage without reservation and shame. Yes, it is! You could be ashamed of yourself, for you have taken away 26 thousand and some pensioners already earned and earned the right to adequate pensions. The consequences are that people do not believe and no longer trust in the rule of law. Really. Not that they're afraid of money, not that they're afraid because they took it. No! No! They don't trust any more! And when these people do not trust, this mistrust is passed on to other generations, to younger generations, and so on. There are irreparable damage that cannot be estimated by money or by some other meter. Follow a government that systematically plans to travel to a different country. You can see how different we are today. You are following a government that plans to travel to an undemocratic, unsocial and unequal country for all citizens and citizens. It is therefore our duty to draw the attention of citizens and citizens to all attempts by the government to change this by doing so. I'm sure they've seen this before. Their revolt will be heard, I hope it's not too bad. In recent times, we have seen the government headed by the SDS on a path where the value of capital and money and not human beings should be. That's not right. See, when we talk about these injustices that have occurred or that someone needs to be taken away, but not on the thumb. When taken, you have to go from case to case. That's what we saw on the deleted. And so it is now. Delete one automatically because they were either in a national liberation battle or somewhere else. No, from case to case. And there may have been some kind of anomaly that can be corrected, but not in a way that can be generalized. The government wants to work its way, this is a dictatorship, subordinate Slovenian politics and also the people. That is why it is planned – I am talking about the government's planned work, I really believe in their ability and systemicity, because I have already noticed this in these months when I am here – and it is systematically building a system that has nothing to do with democracy, solidarity and socialism. It builds a system of privileged people, and it divides people into ours, yours, and maybe some. By accepting Zujf, supported by the coalition MPs, and by loud opposition and warning the opposition a few months ago, you have begun to create the injustices that we now want to correct. You cook your way down to reduce already acquired rights to a smaller group of pensioners – yes, it is a government strategy, you have made small groups, gradually and systematically, one group for another group. You went after these vulnerable, but you went after the fighters, the ones who had already proved that they would not move away, nor did they remove themselves from the masses more powerful years ago when we were attacked. So, first the participants in the national liberation fight. It's about certain privileges. Yes, I believe these people had the privilege of knowing in time that they needed to take up arms and fight. Now you're taking another privilege from them, in the notes, that they got some resources for them to live and that somehow the state and we all owe them for what they've done. You take the pensioners JLA and the police, who paid for the pension and invalidity bills in the previous country, but properly and legally. All of this is evident and also duly ratified by an international successor agreement. Here will follow a complaint, a warning, here again the state will have to pay, but you probably think, because we won't be in the government then, they will already, let someone else worry about it. And how the government realizes its purpose, that's the systematic thing I said. He subjugates his entire repressive apparatus. We've already seen this somehow: the prosecution, the police, probably now in court, etc., which is still coming, but I won't let myself be surprised, I can just predict. It builds a structure of rule from the top down, pyramidal. Pyramid. The head already knows what people have to do below. He wants to control the media by raising VAT on printed media, which will, of course, end individual media, people will be less informed if they are less informed, they are easier to run, etc. It reduces the contribution to RTV and thus prevents RTV from having certain information and programs that are otherwise not so visible, but are of paramount importance to people. At the same time, it establishes or prepares the creation of a new TV, a new TV house, and probably again some free people who will inform people as well as the summit already know what people need to know and what they need to hear and what they need to understand. It creates control over education. We are now witnessing, in this reference we will consider the Higher Education Act, the NAKVIS, which the Government wants to subordinate, of course will have control over the accreditation of programmes, and the Government knows which programmes are good for education and which are suitable for people to be educated and to think properly. Fear is created among people, causing apathy and non-motivation. Individuals, we have already heard this in this House, individual experts, and those who think are not such fighters to go to the streets, have already moved out and are already moving out of the country, and, of course, the government gets a special manoeuvre, this is the peace in front of people who are thinking. This is the path that the crowds have probably already come to know, have seen, and will make it easier for them to make decisions in the next election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u93	Before I give my word to Mr Pukšič, I just want to explain something. I took a look at my colleague Tonin's MRI of the debate and then the mag replicas. Barbara Žgajner Tavš and I must say very clearly that by the side of mags. Tonin was not given a pejorati mark on the appearances of opposition Members and Members. The word "subversive", "lower" or any similar word, was not used. For the first time this word came out of the mouth of colleague Barbara Žgajner Tavš, so I would like this to be perfectly clear and that we all avoid it in the future. Also in the debate of the Magi. Tonino is not mentioned anywhere in the word "popoulism", and the MP based her replica on the fact that she replicated the part of Mr Tonin's debate where she was diagnosed with populism. It wasn't obvious anywhere. If necessary, we will read the magnetograms again every time, so I suggest we be careful about these matters. As they say, special groups of experts will be formed at this year's presidential hearings to verify the facts; if any candidate says anything that does not, experts will warn. That way, we can check the magnetogram whenever necessary and see who was right. I now give my word to Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Some have been in Parliament for a long time or at least recently, both members of the government coalition and ministers, as well as those who have been signed under the amendment of the Public Finance Balance Act, Janko Weber, Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič, Matevž Frangež, mag. Majda Potter, mag. Dean Jedhan and so on. Colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings to you too! Where were you the last three years when you brought the country you ran to the brink of debt? Yesterday, by the President of the Government and the Finance Minister, we heard that we are still going down. In today’s debate, however, some warn – colleague Meh said earlier, we will help if we see the light at the end of this tunnel, what and how to do. That's exactly what was said yesterday. So, what and how, first we're going to stop this car of decay, the wagon that's still rolling down, then it's going to be in place for a long time and it's going to start rising from here. What my colleague said before me, almost none of what was said is true. Moreover, he talked a lot about the laws that are being announced, about the reforms that are being prepared, or about matters that are yet to come to the Slovenian Parliament. However, the government’s view of Zuif shows how it changed or how it came about. The principle of equality was followed by a reduction of approximately the same percentage for each group financed by the budget, not by groups, not by objects, but within the group, as a percentage. If we are very specific, you wrote it yourself, for those who had up to €777, for €100, and for those who had more than €450, for 350. Why did I mention you in the first place, colleagues and colleagues? I also mentioned you because those of you who signed today were in the previous government and you have without shame reduced not by a few percent, but taken – so not reduced, we cannot talk about a reduction of 10%, 20%, 50%, but you simply took 15 thousand Slovenes and Slovenes of the state pension which they received only from 65 years of age. We said a lot about who was in this category, the females and the men who worked and worked on the earth their whole lives, even after 1945, when they were taken away — that is, mandatory broadcasting. I think it even had to be done that those who built factories, roads and so on had to eat and drink; but farmers worked in the fields, worked this land, and took it away from them. These pensions, co-workers, were not more than EUR 777 above EUR 1,000 450, these pensions amounted to EUR 189; you took EUR 189 100 per cent, 100 per cent! They've got nothing! Fifteen thousand people! You are not interested in them – you are talking about the social and legal state! A colleague in front of me spoke of the right thing to do if we found the poor children to make a mistake to repent and correct that mistake. We would have fixed that mistake if we weren't afraid. Comrade Kavtičnik, Franz Pukšič, in 16 years, was not present in this House and will not be afraid, because he owes no one anything, took nothing away from anyone and always fought for justice and always fought for the right of the least and the one most affected, including the 15,000 people to whom you took 100 percent. Well, and you warned me that it would be right if we could correct the mistakes and alert them to the mistakes. Comrade Kavtičnik, I suggest that you not remind these government coalitions and all of us Members that we should correct our mistakes, but devote yourself to the work of correcting the mistakes made by your party's chief, Zoran Jankovic. Trust me, you're gonna have enough work to do your whole life, and you're gonna run out of time. It is therefore right that we speak with reference to one and the other matters. Colleagues and colleagues, as far as fighters are concerned. If I have accurate data, they are on the list to obtain pensions from this title, of these 7,000 500 participants in the NOB, Spanish War and so on, the years 1939. In 1941, when World War II began, they were two years old, four years older, six years older in 1945. So, this is this 7 thousand 500 people who are also on these lists – I'm not talking about everyone, God forbid! And what injustice did you do to 15,000, to those farmers and farmers who helped create this country, who worked with others, and today you talk about what injustice we do when we reduce pensions to those of 777 euros, or a thousand 450 per cent. You know, today the one who was then 15 years old or born in 1930 is now 82 years old when he was of age, and is now 85 years old. I would like to know how many of these fighters we took, who were fighters, who were then 15 or 18 years old; and if, I think, this can be repaid to these people, but not to all those relatives, aunts, grandmothers, wives who, I don't know, maybe in the last three years before their death reports with them and then receive pensions and so on. In short, it's very decisive to do so. But you made it very transparent and took away all Slovenian farmers and farmers, 15 thousand, the 189 euros, which is not fair, was wrong. If we were not in a situation like this today, I would be the first and the first day of this government coalition would suggest that we return it. Sorry, buddy, it's not working. Do you still remember one of my budgetary discussions in the National Assembly when you indebteded our country and I said that you do not do this to keep jobs, do not do this to develop our economy further, but work to borrow through the so-called 'preservation of jobs' of tycoon and tycoon loans. It was dark and you laughed; and dear coalition, nothing helped to warn the opposition back then. How much did I talk about unused European funds?Oh, my God! What has been going on in this area! Yesterday, the President of the Government and the Finance Minister told us where we are, where we came from, because the last three years in this area have not done enough. And the direction we're heading is the graph that was also presented here yesterday, more money for investments and less money for public spending. The number of jobs in the economy, in the real sector, must be increased – to create conditions for this. I know we haven't done everything, we can't, just in less than a year, we can't fix everything that's been piled up in recent years, and it's catastrophic in the last three years. In fact, the Slovenian People's Party has nothing to report, we also held a stand for you when you proposed them, even though we did not agree with everything, but still. Unfortunately, you have brought things so far that today – unfortunately not yet at the bottom – we still owe ourselves 2 billion for 2013 and 2014. We don't have to look forward to this and open champagne. We have to cry! When I go to the bank for a loan to pay off the interest on my previous loan, I'm not looking forward to it, but I'm crying, but someone brought us here. Where there are responsibilities, except politically, when some of the parties have disappeared from this space. I already said that some of the parties will go to the dump of Slovenian history, which has also happened, but it still does not return jobs to people, not bread or milk. That's why I won't support this bill of yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u95	Mr Pukšič's debate triggered two replicas. First Mr. Matjaž Han, then Mr. Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u96	My dear Franz! In view of the fact that the only thing you have precisely realized is that, in the previous term, state pensions were actually confiscated – I agree with you – that was about €220 per individual – but I do not think that you did not participate in these talks because you were dealing with Destrnik as well as I did with any other congregation, but the agreement why the People's Party supported the pension reform was probably not just a national gesture, but it was because we agreed that we would resolve these matters in the pension law, including those of your state pensions for these 15,000 people; and it was written in the pension reform. It is true that a new state pension can no longer be granted, and this has been made clear, but we have opened a new law called social security rights, where power was available to all people, to all these mothers, to old mothers and so on, the power to obtain more than €220, even up to €420, if, France, listen to me – if they do not have the property. This was agreed and it was also one of your conditions to support this pension reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u97	Mr. Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u98	Thank you very much. France may feel like a child, but I didn't say that children are coalition MPs, but like children. That's different. That's the first one. Next thing you know, from case to case, you have to go. And here I am glad that colleague Franc found out that we should go from case to case. Comrade Franz, please, if you could just listen to me so that we don't have to go back to misunderstanding. I warn you, coalition Members, and all Members that we are adopting such laws that no injustice is done. Zoran Jankovic is not a Member, so I do not warn him here and I do not mean him. I hope you are aware that Zoran Jankovic is not a coalition member. Moreover, between 2006 and 2007, 80% of all Taiwanese loans happened. Between 2006 and 2007. What government was it then? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u99	Let's move on. Mrs. Replica doesn't have a word on replicas, you know. [[...]] Mrs. Janja Klasinc, then Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u100	Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, I'd like to return to the agenda. Let me start by saying that I am one of the signatories and, of course, I will adopt the bill. It will be accepted because I would also like to point out to the coalition Members that we are also trying to help you and we are trying to help all citizens of Slovenia. However, we are trying to help simply because this law is so illegal, even unconstitutional, that it will cause consequences that will certainly lead to, believe me, that this country will lose a lot of money due to complaints in higher courts, if not in our country and abroad. Are we doing the new deleted again? I'll tell you a personal experience. When I was a journalist, I warned in the articles that doing with deleted matters would be the first time that this country would be a terrible injustice, but that this country would cost a terrible deal, and then I took my thoughts and everything, even in the previous term – you all laughed. We have a bill at the door today. Look, today we have to adopt this law to repay the injustices, and then in my opinion, do everything we can to change the rules in such a way that we can gain in a fairer way, and very quickly, this money that we will lose. Look, Mr President said in his debate that this law is radical, and why I do not think it is radical. It is not radical because, first of all, it is discriminatory, because, second of all, it has caused great damage because, third of all, it is ideological and because it is unconstitutional. Now, allow me to argue with each of my claims. It is simply discriminatory because of this, and it has been said several times today that these special groups, which should have taken money from the direction of this coalition, are 47 thousand 280 people. And this government has decided to do the wrong and take the money away from only 26,000 people. There are fighters, internationalists, military pensioners, former government officials, employees of companies from the former Yugoslavia or Slovenian companies that had their branches in the republics of the former Yugoslavia, policemen, etc. And here we come to the point that it's ideological. It's ideological because these are the groups that make this coalition uncomfortable. Now you have found something that the government will repair once again with only one piece, and these are, of course, employees in the republics of the former Yugoslavia. If I'm correctly informed, we don't have the texts on the table yet, it's only those who worked in our companies. I don't know, I hope that's not true, but this correction will also result in more injustices, redefinitions. If we had adopted our law, which the opposition is proposing, then all these injustices would have brought back to these 26,000 people very cheap, colleagues and colleagues! By the end of this year, these people could have gotten that money back, and then, as I understand it, you think, like you say, clean it up in a new pension reform. I understand that by causing people great harm. You know, my heart hurts when I listen to the leader of the retirement party's parliamentary group, and the parties that should care the most about the rights of these people who say that those who have not paid their contributions cannot. Those who fought, say fighters, for these rights of all of us to live here today, or as colleague of Meglič said, "we're screwing around," because this reminds us more and more of this, not one serious debate, then colleagues and colleagues, I don't understand how you imagined that in that pause, when they waited for the Germans to attack or defend themselves against the Germans and the Italians, they would go and pay a contribution to the guest, to what kiosk is likely to be. The locals who swore an oath to the German invader then sat well at home, had comfortable services, and paid contributions — did they not? For example, you're saying that they didn't pay contributions to military pensioners, that's what they call military insurers. Today, it has already been said that these have acquired a right on a regular basis on the basis of paid contributions, so they have paid, in accordance with the annex of the e-Law on the ratification of the succession agreement, the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to pay these pensioners – and we are in the event of non-constitutionality. The fundamental constitutional charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia in its Article 1 states: "The Republic of Slovenia assumes all rights and obligations which have been transferred by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Constitution of the SFRJ to the authorities of the SFRJ." And in order for this basic constitutional charter to be fulfilled as honestly and accurately as possible, a constitutional law has been passed to implement this basic constitutional charter and let me read it to you. Article 17 states: "Delegates in the Federal Assembly of the SFRJ Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, delegates of the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to the Assembly of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia and the provinces of the SFRJ Assembly who, under the second article of this Act, are granted rights under the rules applicable to the officials of the Republic of Slovenia or the former SFRJ, if this is more favourable to them. Persons who, on a proposal from the authorities of the Republic of Slovenia, have been elected to or appointed to positions in the authorities of the SFRJ, who have ceased their functions or working relationship in the SFRJ bodies, shall be granted rights by the Republic of Slovenia under the rules applicable to officials or workers in the national authorities of the Republic of Slovenia and the SFRJ, if this is more favourable to them." And the following article, article 18, also provides the same rights for fighters, military disabled people, members of families of fallen fighters — those mentioned by Mr. Puksic, born in 1939, these were children of fighters, a large proportion of these children lost their parents in the NOB — military disabled persons and so on, that I will not read this article until the end. In short, we – no, I'm sorry, but here I really have to make amends, you, the coalition, have violated the fundamental constitutional charters of this country, to which you very, very seriously swear! You're saying it's not ideological. Well, let's see another piece of evidence. Pensions were also reduced for ex-cops. Just look at the fragment! Suddenly, however, it was discovered that a good part of these policemen was members of a veteran organization, and they complained, and without any changes in the law, this part of the pension was suddenly restored! And interesting! Does this mean that those — whom I highly respect and appreciate — who have fought for this country for 10 days are worth more than those who have fought for the same country for four years? See, for the same, dear colleague, because the Republic of Slovenia was a separate part of the SFRJ, in the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. If you think that everything that was in force in Yugoslavia does not apply in the Republic of Slovenia, then you spit on this booklet, which is called the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and I suggest that you all return your certificates from primary schools, secondary schools, colleges, go back to Slovenian primary schools, secondary schools and colleges and then everything will be fine. In short, look, we're doing stupid things completely unnecessary! Finally, I'd say let's ask ourselves something. If we are actually taking in this country, as has been said so far, only some – and you are only telling those who have more – this is not the truth, colleague Tonin. If your grandmother, an old mother, receives a pension of EUR 400, someone who was an engineer who was a highly educated man and who was working somewhere else by accident, or a fighter, or something else, or an official, or a diplomat in the previous country — because he was born in that country and worked there, it is not logical that he would then receive there and 600,700, because you have thus reduced these pensions. And what does that mean that this is not fair? People who have gone to the homes of pensioners with pensions of a thousand 100, a thousand, a thousand, a thousand, a thousand, and a thousand, are very sick, who cannot support themselves who need help in their homes for pensioners can no longer pay these homes. Some are lucky, some have children that we can help, some are unhappy because they have children who do not have jobs and cannot help them, and others are third, but they do not have children to help them. In short, let's be smart, let's take those of us, too, if we have to, and get this money in, but not do the wrongs to those who have fought specifically for this country by sacrificing their lives and health.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u101	This call for the violation of parliamentary rights has been particularly noted by the Secretary-General. The next one has the word mag. Majda Potrat, then mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. On Saturday, I was delighted to welcome a 94-year-old member of the national liberation struggle. I was delighted because it was one of those who did not have to say so - called patriotism. That is precisely why I think the bill we are proposing is all the more justified. Let me remind you, the speech was about our proposal being drastic, but no. In terms of equality and fairness and proportionality, our proposal retains Article 143, paragraph 1, whereby all pensioners share the fate of that country so as not to harmonise their pensions. So they don't take them, but they just don't coordinate. It is true, however, that we then intervene in four paragraphs, which are imprecisely to the place, without criteria, without serious consideration, cut more than 260 thousand pensioners into pensions and because I am not naive enough, because I am old enough, I cannot say that I do not see any deliberate differences between pensioners in these moves. Why do we always stop with the same names? Why is it the one who should have taken his pension, and it's only fair that it went down on average, Cerar? Why is the top-notch artist Svetlana Makarovič always a problem for New Slovenia? Which, by the way, once again brought a cult of bread to the literature. Just remember the Mish Mash Bakery. Not to mention that we even appointed the president of the state in the constitution, because the president was someone who was not willing to go to the right. This is actually the state of things in this country! So don't go blind and say nothing was intentional. But what is more worrying is that this intervention shows a marked lack of respect for the principles of the rule of law. There was talk of non-compliance with the basic charter. Then I would warn you that we only received e-mails in one way or another to warn all Members and Members that we were – because there was a talk about 2002, what we accepted. In 2002, we also adopted, among other things, the Law on the Ratification of the Succession Agreement, which guaranteed those who served in JLA and in other parts of the country that their pensions should be accounted for in the manner in which they are accounted for. You know, that's what has to be said. We don't respect each other, but I'm starting to get really worried. However, I must say that I began to be even more concerned when I read the opinion of the Government, which was transmitted to us during the meeting. On the other hand, in the second paragraph, you will read things that are actually controversial by the decision of the court. Here this opinion refers to the fact that, by just explaining certain things to the decision, a measure of justice can be amended. The procedure of the recognised right is not part of and may be cut off at the dose of the right. And yet the court has said that they must receive not only a notice but a new decision! And here they think it's quite possible to do so. And he says, "The Republic of Slovenia shall cover pension funds from the state budget to persons in the name of their status." Yeah, I'm sorry, how's your status? Was there no talk of contributions paid? And those who served in JLA paid contributions — not status, but contributions. It then states in particular: "For members of the Territorial Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, widows of victims of Dachau processes, workers who worked in the production and processing of asbestos, active military personnel in JLA." Here, however, I am seriously concerned if the Government allows itself to write something like this in an opinion that says at least twice or three times that the ZUJF is based on the principles of equality and justice. It is also stated here that it is only for beneficiaries whose pensions are partly or fully provided by the State budget under Article 232. I don't know, do you think that active participants in the national liberation fight have spent their entire lives retired or have they been lying on the couch and doing nothing? But how? That their entire pensions were paid out of the state budget? It is a matter of misinterpretation; it is a matter of the opinion – and this should now be agreed between the social partners – that the ZUJF proposal was in line with the social partners, who agreed that all the burdens of emergency austerity measures should be redistributed at a level similar to those of all social groups. By this agreement, justifying and justifying excessive interventions – because it also states that only those with over-average benefits receive reductions because, at the expense of higher specific benefits, the reduction is slightly higher, which is necessary if we are to ensure the same percentage of the reduction of funds as in other groups. This, however, should be read with particular care by public officials, as it is also now predicted that intervention in the salaries of those who have higher wages will be greater than those whose salaries are lower, so that the segedin will be derived from all these contributions. But there's something we can't forget. In fact, in Slovenia, the average proportion of pensioners is very low. But with these measures, which we are currently discussing and which we want to change slightly, it must be said that even new pensioners will have no better pensions, they will also have low pensions, because pensions are being paid, and if we talk too much, from paid contributions. However, I think that there should be a solidarity system in the pension system in the future if we do not want to have an excessive number of social supporters. The pension is not a social transfer, the pension is a work right, and I think it is unacceptable that in some individuals, there are a few ten thousand of them, excessively interfering with their rights. In this regard, even the announced pension law does not promise any good solution in this place because, on behalf of the cleansing of the pension fund, it will transfer certain rights to other cash registers. The transparency that the coalition so likes to talk about will be lost because it will not be possible to identify what compensations, what rights are and what privileges are. Nothing to look forward to. I'm just wondering what's going to happen in that government decision that some people are waiting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u103	Mag. Marco Pogačnik, then Mrs. Tina Komel.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Dear coalition! I would ask you nicely to answer one simple question — why? Why did you choose a pensioner as a target group, the biggest victim of the economic crisis? The Constitutional Court has so far submitted several requests for a constitutional review of the Public Finance Balance Act, which is a clear signal that things are not going in the right direction. The Ombudsman also argues that the provisions of Article 143 of Zujf are constitutionally disputed – if someone has not yet received this document, I can present it to you. Article 143 of the Zujf intervenes in the rights provided for in the Decision by a legislative decision. The Public Finance Balance Act has caused pensioners a serious injustice. The government is denying rights to our pensioners, to the victims of the war settlement, to the fighters of NOB, to the Slovenians, who were paid in other republics of the former common country, to artists, to athletes and could also list. What are you doing? Is this how you intend to save Slovenia from this financial crisis? Unfortunately for me, when I read banners like, "Who said, man is our greatest fortune?" Or, "God forgives them for they do not know what they do!" Or the one who's the best, "You lie, you steal, you eat fleas, you come to the government, you crush everything!" Is that really your goal? Do you really want to impoverish our people, our Slovenia? There's been a big mistake, now it's time to fix this mistake, let's change it. I'd like to ask you nicely, return to the people of justice, trust in our country and joy. Just one more sentence to conclude. I hope you are all aware together that Slovenia and its citizens are not in your possession. I therefore recommend that we all act carefully and properly together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs. Renata Brunskole, then Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u106	Thank you very much, distinguished Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will support the proposal for amendments to the law; I will support it because this law, which is now in force, is against the Constitution, is the law of many injustices, ideological separations and discriminatory acts. One such person who complained about the law in force is Comrade Tone Zupančič. Today at 3 p.m. will be his funeral. This is a man seduced by the Slovene, a fighter, 18 years old when he fought for our freedom. The long-standing manager of the farm Kočevje, the long-standing president of pensioners and fighters, worked with beekeepers and, above all, worked with all the people who are willing to work, who are willing to transfer their knowledge and experience to younger generations and, above all, stressed values. He also pointed out many times at various events and meetings that those who want to change history and make history do not realize how on thin ice the Slovenian people were, that in their country they should not speak Slovenian anymore, but German or Italian, if not the Slovenian nation, although small, was then united and informed and therefore extremely strong. Even after 1945, after the liberation, we all lived together in a common country of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and all those who were employed in companies whose headquarters were in any of the other republics of the former Yugoslavia, such as the railways, as companies were still known today, Borovo, Kraš and so on. These people were deprived of this Zuyfu, too. Not only fighters, not only interns, not only victims of war violence, Spanish fighters, those who were employed in the State Security Service, top athletes, culturers, including those who were in these companies, in these companies. Today it is a period of mature age, a vulnerable and vulnerable group of people; that is, people who died yesterday; that is, people who have been hurt and abandoned by this law with these thoughts and memories. It was a group of people who were still aware of how much the Slovenian nation was aware, committed to unity, courageous, aware of its national pride, proud of its Slovenian language, and this love of Slovenian prose and poetry grew throughout the time. Today, unfortunately, it's the other way around. The government plans to tax the services of small craftsmen, including hairdressers; those involved in recreational activities, fitness activities, taxation of the media – perhaps in order to buy them less, I don't know if anyone could even be on the verge of existence, that is, media representatives, such companies. Yesterday, I could not believe the ease with which the Minister of Finance mentioned these new taxes. He probably didn't think that this could mean for a certain little entrepreneur's activity, most of them self-employed, so that it could even mean the cessation of activities for these people. This means another or more unemployed people in the Republic of Slovenia. An extraordinary meeting of the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, where ex-Ministers, economic experts, were present, stressed and also stressed the priorities of the Republic of Slovenia. The emphasis was also on the removal of the credit crunch, in support of the economy for the exit of Slovenia from the crisis. However, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance stressed that the priorities are in order: liquidity of the budget, consolidation of public finances, stabilisation of the banking system, reforms and then support for the economy. On my question about the urgency of supporting the economy and economic growth, he stressed that we cannot start economic growth at this time until we implement the above-mentioned urgent measures, and then support the economy. I wonder what other economic society will then be able to support this government?Oh, my God! Who else is going to live?Oh, my God! Which company?Oh, my God! In Slovenia construction has come so far that today our largest construction companies can only be subcontractors of foreign construction companies. Of course, we are in the European Union! However, it is also interesting that a tax on the profits of these companies, abroad registered construction companies, will go abroad; probably Germany, Austria, Italy and elsewhere. Yesterday we had an opportunity to hear very interesting questions from our colleagues and colleagues. I must say that the answers were sad, the answers here are from the government representatives present. The questions or answers to the question of how many new jobs this government has created, which have had concrete economic effects, were not as strong at the table as in the previous term in some of our colleagues' discussions, at the time in the opposition. The question was also why there is no support for large investment projects. Why start performing some of these only around 2020? Why the stability of the banking system with the introduction of an old bank? Bad banks, not the old one we know to be one of the longest routes. Why not resolve the bad claim in the context of the banks of the competent risk centres and the resolution of risk investments? However, this also means the longest time period; the Minister of Finance, lastly yesterday, has stressed that this will not mean the removal of the credit crunch. We are therefore already asking about the effectiveness of the banking system measures. Germany and other countries are talking about economic stabilisation and economic growth, and we are still talking about tightening and saving. In Tokyo, the Director-General of the International Fund stressed: that saving, but slower, is not as fast as it seems to be happening in some countries. I think she had Slovenia in mind here, too. Some clearly do not understand the financial cycle or cash flow in Slovenia. If people don't have a job, if pensioners have pensions that represent living on the threshold of poverty, if families are on the verge of survival, if they have almost no money for bread, then there will be no spending. If there is no consumption, there will be no start-up of the economy, because for whom companies will produce if there is no one to buy. Lately, I read that there are a lot of people who are going to buy bread in the evening an hour before the store closes, since at that time the price of bread is half the price. It's sad. These are the sad data that the media are writing about. Today, we are talking about Zuyph, this infamous Zuyph, who has affected virtually all the lives of people and all segments of the population; and even more acutely, 26 thousand people, whose obvious ideological belief — according to some or some coalition, because this law has voted — we are not — that these people are not and are not thinking right. Apparently, these people were not on the right track in 1945; obviously it was wrong for them to choose freedom, for the Slovenian people and for the Slovenian language. And I think it was still the right thing to do, and the people who fought for independence after the war, the veterans of the wars for Slovenia, who are more than 10,000, were the ones who regained our freedom. And also athletes and culturers, those who took Slovenia into the world and proved that a small nation can also win. As a signatory to this amendment of the law, I will support this proposal, and I would like to ask my fellow Members from the coalition to go along this path, too, and to stop the road leading to Slovenia's collapse.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u107	Mag. Diane Jedhan. After him, mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u108	Dear President, dear Members and Members of Parliament, nice greetings! I believe that after yesterday's performance by the President of the Government and his finance minister there are not even these few percent of people in Slovenia who think that this government understands what is going on, that this government knows what to do, only a very large percentage of people are who know that this government can scare its citizens and citizens. As a result, the situation which is currently present in Slovenia is also the result. At this point, we all guess together and bid whether the economic downturn will be 2%, 3% or maybe 5%. We are beginning to bid on what the budget hole will be; whether it will be 3,5- or 4% or even more. So, all the indicators that started to turn up last year – remember that in 2011, with all the anger of the then opposition and the current coalition in Slovenia, there was a turnover: we had economic growth again and only economic growth could fill the state budget. And remember, last year in an extremely difficult situation where Slovenia was, we were able to achieve 0.6% economic growth; this year it will be the other way around: we will achieve a record, but in another direction. If we look at Zuif. Zujf was viewed as a law that would save money in Slovenia, but Zujf caused two other things: fear among people. With this law, the Slovenian government and the coalition of its nationals and citizens successfully managed to scare, which is reflected in demand and which is reflected in negative economic growth, and with this law, the coalition has managed to solve some of its ideological problems, which we now keep listing. With the current change that we have proposed, we are trying to fix at least a small thing, and that is in fact that we want to share the burden that everyone in Slovenia must bear at least equally among people. Dear Members and Members! If you support this law today, you understand that optimism must be brought back to the country. Pessimism was too much, too much, too much! I suggest you take a look at the recording of the speech of the great European, which everyone acknowledges to him, this is Mr Gerhard Schröder, who visited Slovenia last week. Don't be so careful who the candidate supports, you don't need to be careful which one the customer supports, but it would be useful for you, but you can look at something else. Look what he's telling us. His speech was simply to do everything to bring optimism into the country, and to do everything to carry out structural reforms. Do not torture citizens and citizens, imitate Germany! Bring structural reforms to Slovenia. In fact, he was talking about one thing in particular. It says that it is impossible for the country to develop if it has a major reform that is engulfing in public finances; and this reform is a pension reform. Now we hear and come to the National Assembly a pension reform, the reform that you brought down last year with such joy. I look forward to the calculations; I look forward to seeing you demonstrate that this pension reform, as your Prime Minister and Finance Minister said yesterday, will prove to us how this pension reform will save 150 million euros next year. Indeed, according to the old one, which was more rigorous, the financial impact in the next year was EUR 50 million, and the current, which is only one category of people, and these are women in this country, you are saying that it will bring 150 million euros to women's account. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to correct the mistake you have made with this particular Zuyfa today. With this Slovenia we give some signal – because today it is popular to speak to give signals and signals, so at times I have the feeling that you have become a radio station that continues to broadcast some signals to and from Slovenia, and then we, as parliament, give some signal and go along with some smart steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek, let me prepare, please, Gaspar Gaspar Mišič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u110	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Nice greetings again, dear colleagues and colleagues! The government has taken on a very difficult task of taking Slovenia back on the path of successful countries and a very ungrateful task of taking urgent action to get out of the crisis, and that is what I am afraid of. I'm not afraid to talk. The former government was afraid, so it bought social peace and owed Slovenia up to 16 billion public debt and created an 800 million-dollar budget hole, which is a record. That is why I think it is urgent, and with some understanding, I am taking the measures that the Government is transposing. We have a government, this government – whether we are satisfied with it or not – and the government is the one that is executing and is trying to take action to get out of the crisis. Unfortunately, someone is the government of Janez Janša, but I am optimistic, and I believe that the government of Janez Janša will bring Slovenia out of the crisis. And there's a thorny path ahead of us. I am aware that the measures will, and will also, arouse dissatisfaction in the public, but the Government does not have room for manoeuvre. We've heard that before. I am aware that we will also be coalition Members, more than opposition Members, all the time targeting the consequences of these measures, but I am also aware that we are creating some conditions for a future generation, for our children, that we will live better for once and for our parents and for our grandmothers. We're all responsible together. There are always two solutions: whether we will go as the Greeks do, or whether we will get help from Brussels. The Greeks are also on the streets because they have to accept reforms, and that hurts people. It's normal for him to hurt them! And this government is also taking measures that are working towards people. Unfortunately, this is always the case if we want to implement certain reforms; and these reforms are necessary. Among other things, the government has decided to consolidate public finances and has therefore adopted the Public Finance Balance Act. Every crisis, we know, leaves consequences. At first, they were felt in the real sector, and we did not get the most together with the real sector crisis. Due to the economic crisis in the real sector, there are now 120 000 unemployed, businesses are in insolvency proceedings, businesses cannot repay their obligations and neither are contributions to employees, so they are blocked. That is why the measures of this government are also necessary in order to increase economic growth in order to trigger the economic cycle, and therefore the rehabilitation of banks, and therefore the pension reform, which is why labour market reform is also essential! New jobs must be provided, so that we can pay our contributions again and that is the only way to ensure long-term intergenerational solidarity. It should be pointed out that, in order to cover regular payments from the pension allowance today, it is not only the payment of the active generation that is sufficient and therefore the deficit is 30%. That's scary information! It needs to be stressed, and the government also explains that the measure of negative reconciliation of pensions, when we speak of Article 143 of the Zujf, is regulated in the fourth part of the law, which defines temporary measures – let us not mislead the public and our pensioners! Temporary measures have been identified, resulting in the fact that this measure does not have a permanent nature as well. They also point to the government, and we have heard again today that this is a law that is of a temporary nature, as it regulates the response and adjustment of the state and state budget stakeholders to the economic situation, in a way that follows the principles of equal treatment of all beneficiaries as far as possible. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs also stressed that the reduction in pensions relates only to crisis years and only to pensions that do not have the basis for contributions paid and are higher than €622. I, too, accept this Zujf amendment proposed by the opposition as a call and a warning to the government; and the government has also accepted it. In this I see the opposition's help to draw attention to certain matters, but I find it difficult to accept the Zujf proposal proposed by the opposition, because it is highly partial, unfair to the remaining 340 thousand pensioners or to 214 thousand pensioners, who receive a pension of less than EUR 622. Yes, a pension is a social guarantee only if it has a basic contribution. And that's the point! I repeat, pension is a social guarantee only if it has a basis in paid contributions. Everything else is a privileged pension. I find it difficult to accept the argument that it is a matter of punishing a special group of pensioners, and I find it difficult to accept the opposition's arguments that these are ideological criteria for categorisation of pensioners. However, I allow the possibility that there has been an injustice for a particular category. I see the problem in insurers who have paid contributions to the pension funds of the former SFRJ republics, so the government has prepared the novel Zujf and, as we have heard, has been adopted by the government today. For these reasons, which I have stated, and above all, that the pension is a social guarantee only if it has a basis in paid contributions, this proposal of yours Zujf, which speaks only of the privileged number of pensioners, cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič has the floor to prepare Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u112	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! My predecessor said the government has taken on a very difficult task. To that end – my dear colleague, I appreciate your performances very much, but citizens and citizens have also accepted a great burden with this government. Sometimes I think that the diametric countermeasures would be better in a time of crisis than the government has adopted, as proposed by the government and as we take them here and confirm them in the temple of democracy. But for starters, at first let me say something very personal. I suffer from watching and listening to the way coalition MPs and Members of Parliament behave, because you do not hear the voice of the most socially weak citizens and citizens, not to mention how little you care about the voice of the opposition. It is as if only your fellow thinkers live in this country; yet they are not living, and they are different! That's why we should consider everything. I suffer because the government measures that you support by coalition Members and Members are long-term harmful to our country, with which we will never cross from the country that creates trends. We'll always be creaking for someone. Ivan Cankar said, "Boys! For the servants born..." I hope this doesn't hold up today. It shouldn't hold. I suffer in the absence of this government, what are our comparative advantages in relation to partner countries, which is crucial to the political and economic situation of Slovenia in Europe and the world. And colleague Petavar, you said that this law, which we are considering today, is only temporary in nature. Yeah. I hope this government is also temporary. Now, let me get back to the agenda, and I apologize for this intermezzo at the intro. Today is the day when citizens and citizens have the opportunity to know who and for whom they have given their vote in the elections. And today is the day when we have Members and Members, with the emphasis on those who, by pressing the "yes" button, have allowed the adoption of Zujf, the Law on the Balance of Public Finances, with all the shortcomings to check or correct the mistake you have caused to the many who have built our country. They are not guilty of pensioners and pensioners because this government does not manage the financial and economic crisis, in which we also find ourselves because of the poor and wrong decisions made by the senior representatives of this government in the past, which today, instead of creating the conditions for the start-up of the economy and the opening up of the new jobs that we are talking about, interferes with the deserved and deprived rights of pensioners and pensioners! That's not wise, and that's not fair. Did anyone wonder, dear colleagues, what kind of signal do we send to young people, such as those who, in key moments, courageously defended the land by which we are walking freely today and who have incorporated blood and sweat into Slovenia's sovereignty? Instead of gratitude, we take their dignity. I fear that some of you are not aware that freedom has not been given to us, but it has been fought, so let us show due respect to all who were part of this fight. And by the way, the key to the sustainability of public finances is a healthy economy and not just saving the burden of socially weak citizens and citizens, resulting in a decline in consumption, which, as a result, only reduces economic growth, increases unemployment, even lower wages for those who still have jobs and jobs, and because of the absence of work, has not paid contributions to the pension register and all this reduces social security. Where all of this goes, you will see who today is deciding the fate of this country when it is too late. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We have problems because of the problems of those who create problems that you cannot or do not want to understand the essence of the functioning and functioning of the country, even though you are full of mouths, how you strive for the well-being of all citizens and citizens. When you mention the country's expenditure and obligations towards citizens, which are partly or fully financed by the State, you forget that citizens and citizens are being filled in state treasury with dedicated contributions and taxes. So the state is not a charity that shares charity. Even more! The salaries of all politicians, ministers, government and government officials and other officials shall also be financed by contributions and taxes paid to nationals and citizens in cash. So, our dear, so-called authorities, who are entrusted to you the management and management of this country, you are not blackmailing us. Nothing at all. And it would be nice to adjust your attitude to citizens and citizens accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mrs Plevčak has the floor to prepare, please, Mr Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, again. We need to be aware, and I personally am very aware that we are in a very deep crisis. Let's ask ourselves who got us this far. I think all the governments we've had so far. We can't say she didn't spend her head off. And in the end, we came to the situation we're in. It's not just an external crisis. A large part of the crisis was caused by those who did not do well. Those in banks, those who exercised control of the banking system, the alienation of the economy or the destruction of the economy. I feel like we're all suddenly powerless together. Today we are discussing the amendment of the Public Finance Balance Act. When we started dealing with this law, there were a lot of things that we really dealt with after a very urgent procedure, and I believe that some mistakes have been made in doing so. I hope or must say that we have also warned about these options of error at the Committee's meeting. However, it seems right to me that today we are discussing the changes in pensions that we have been reducing to some, that we recognize these errors and that for all those who have received a pension from paid contributions in the former Yugoslavia, no matter where they have been working to fix this pension. There's something else I'd like to touch. There's always talk of some amounts of pensions. After all, EUR 622 is not a superstandard pension, let's remember that! 622 euros is a pension with which the pensioner barely survives in a month; God forbid he remains alone if both are retired! I think we all have to work together to find a solution so that everyone can. I know we can't fix or fix all the mistakes, but let's solve at least a few problems, though, so that the anomalies that have happened can be eliminated. However, I still believe and hope that there are two million people in Slovenia and little less than 600 pensioners in order for these 600 pensioners to make individual controls, to go from case to case, if not in two months, but in three, but something will happen and there will be mistakes that have been made. I sincerely hope that today we will find a compromise and that the government will hear that the pensioners will finally be satisfied, as will we who are sitting in Parliament. We are very responsible and personally feel very responsible, especially because people come to my office who have problems that barely survive, including a pension of more than 600 euros. That is why I would no longer want to hear about superstandard pensions because it upsets the pensioners very much, since these are pensions for them to survive. At the same time, with the debate on pensions, we must also bear in mind all our young people who leave school who do not have jobs vegetating in their families. This is also a problem that we need to take into account and address, not now with regard to Zuyfa, but probably very soon. So I hope that today the Government will bring a smart solution and then we will see how our Group of Members decides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor. Let me prepare myself, please, Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! I am 61 years old, and in my life I have also been actively involved in politics and have been monitoring the development of our country and helping to do so. I do not recall, however, the period in which the legal state would be tested so many times as it is during this period. Clearly, the state is in a state as it is, and everyone wants to create as much conditions as possible to swim out of these problems. There are also violations of the rule of law on the agenda, both of which are different. Today, when we talk about the correction of Zujf, Article 143, it is one of the opportunities and opportunities offered by the opposition by the introduction of the novel to correct certain injustices and thus to move away from the rule of law. It was illustrated that Zuyf, adopted after such a rapid procedure, would have no consequences. Zuif has consequences. Zuif is actually a tool to increase poverty. However, if we look at the other side, something needs to be done in the country to get out of trouble, and something has to be taken. At ZUJF, the opposition, as well as our party Positive Slovenia, had many comments. We warned of the anomalies and shortcomings of Zuyf, but then the voting machine went forward, Zuyf was adopted and is here. Today, however, it is once again an opportunity for at least this 143rd article, which interferes with the rights acquired and expected rights of 26,000 pensioners to be rectified. I do not exactly agree with my colleague Damjana, who says that pensions are a social guarantee, but only in the part where pensions are provided with regular contributions. Pensions are also a social guarantee for those who, through legal rights, have acquired this right to have a pension as it is. These rights were acquired in that country or in those before that country. By the time we violate these rights, we have committed a serious breach, then we have done something bad, as the institution of the Ombudsman also reminds us, and that is also likely to be pointed out by the Constitutional Court, which will take the view of this 143rd Article of Zujf, and I also expect it to be rectified, adjusted and modified to such an extent that these rights will be corrected. It's not just an existential question of all these 26 thousand who are affected; it's fighters, fighters, they're interns, they're disabled, they're also those who have been in other countries. This is also particularly the case with some moral damage that has been caused to all those who have so far been convinced that they have fought for the right thing, that they have been working for the right thing, for this country, which, last but not least, has given them the right to have a higher pension. This is the beginning of the dignity of all those who are affected, and that is why today is the debate on the ideological range, ideological intentions to somehow deny, or make it impossible, or reduce the rights of all those who have received these rights based on their efforts in the past. Romana's colleague also initially talked about solidarity. I don't know, I don't see much solidarity here; I don't see much solidarity in changing this article, because this is a very discriminatory thing. It's hard to convince me that any point of solidarity is, in some ways, a right for 26 thousand pensioners. I would like this novel, which she proposed, to receive your support, because at the end of the day, when Zujf was adopted, Minister Erjavec took his head and said, "We didn't know what we were taking!" And at the end of the year when Zuyf was adopted, did the Head of State say he would try and expect this injustice to be rectified by the end of this year – but is now an opportunity for both of us, including Minister Erjavac, Mr Virant, to make these things right? I know you're responding to the fact that the government was preparing some things. But we will wait again for the government to prepare this, but if today is the opportunity to vote for it and correct these injustices! Of course, we are also waiting for pension reform with fear and high expectations. I doubt that in the proposal for pension reform, at least for this part of the population that is already taking Zujf's rights to be better, but at least it is enough that we have time to point this out now and that we will also if the pension reform somehow deprives all these rights, loud and we also propose appropriate modifications. Temporaryity – I hope it is indeed a temporary measure; but even if it is temporary, it is worth supporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor. Get ready for us, Mr. Roman Zveglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u118	Good-bye. The economic crisis is just an excuse for illustration; not for silence, but for the very loudness which is also felt in material goods. Unfortunately, these fighters, partisans, campers are fewer every day – why did you get into this particular category of people? True, when he was in the camp, he did not pay in cash and is now designated a privileged man. It's fascism, people! This is not happening in any country! Look, the debate, what the colleague – now out – was talking about 620 euros. True, we must not allow ourselves to debate that this is enough to survive, that all that is above it is already a fortune and must be taken. This government has achieved that we have hungry children, but they mention the government of Robbery and I don't know what. There were no hungry children back then! Today we have hungry children, and this is the achievement of this government and this coalition! And don't make fun of me when they say that DeSUS will get assurances that pensions won't be frozen. What more can we believe from Karl Erjavac, leader of DeSUS? How many times has he thrown you on a mine? You have always voted as commanded, and today you will, without further ado! These are excuses: you know, the government is now preparing some document then we're going to get a victory like this record that we got earlier and it's been accurately explained by my colleague Pate, where are the stupidities that are written in there. [[...]] Some of you mention Mir Cerar, Svetlana Makarovič, Kučana and others. By negligence! These are the bats they're talking about. Those who mention these people are bats! The point is that these people need to bow to the ground, because what they have done for our homeland will never happen to many of us. Not that now we're talking about Miro Cerar's overretirement, let's take him 100 euros! That's rude! There's no other way to discuss it here, I'm sorry! Because he rejects blood and then he goes to hell. That's how we're gonna talk here or we're gonna talk if we hire some young people -- except those couples in the offices that are "ours". Those guys got a job. Yesterday, the Minister of Economy did not know how many new jobs were made during this period, but the year of your rule has passed, and you have embarked on this position. You push, you're not elected by the nation, and now you're working as a bulldozer with people, you're scaring them, you're threatening the President of the Government, saying that if five measures are not taken, it's the end of the world. [[...]] We're not going to the theater, we're not drinking beer, we're not going to the football game. This is the future of this country? [[...]] Start working on the reforms that are urgently needed to move things from a dead point and you will have our help! Leave those five old fighters, campers, fighters for the independence of Slovenia to end their lives in peace; they will not save our economy with their pensions! Why don't you ask me in your time when they gave loans to the tycoons? Today, I read in the newspaper Hauc, the head of the new KBM – 27 million he gave for a biogas plant that doesn’t even have a building permit! You are threatening to punish the directors of public institutions with 10,000 euros if they do not take account of their balanced budget. However, you require a fiscal rule in the Ministry to require fines of EUR 10 000 if they do not drive their ministry in accordance with fiscal arrangements. [[...]] Ask for it! But not one principal who has 300 children there, but who has no English teacher and cannot hire him; or a branch school that has no idea what the cost is, he will not be able to spend them. Get on the real ground, start working, you have our assistance in pension legislation, you will have our support in all other important reform laws if you take advantage of your own knowledge and also some of our proposals. I will support this marriage, but I know in advance that not one, not the other, not the third, you will not do it, but whatever the excuses are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša, probably on behalf of DeSUS, asked for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u120	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. It is true that I have not been mentioned, but the party DeSUS or the President of this party was mentioned, and it is right that I should explain something briefly. Dear colleague Mirko Brulc, Sopomurec – it does not matter, but it is important to know where someone comes from. In the party DeSUS, as well as in the Group of Members, we do not have this habit of punishing other groups of Members and their representatives. You know this from history, we've never done this before, we're not doing it now. If we can make it [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u121	Mr. Jursha, wait a minute. The replica is when you consider that perhaps anything was misunderstood in the debate, in connection with DeSUS, a colleague of Mr. Mirko Brulc, so that we can focus on this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u122	I'll be very short. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u123	if he got something wrong. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u124	And I'll make it very clear. [[...]] Do not judge and talk about someone who is "snake", but let us wait and see whether these pensions will be aligned or not at the rate announced by Karl Erjavac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u125	Mr Roman Žveglič has the floor to prepare himself for Mr Bevk only.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings to you all! It is true that legislation usually touches, even those in this social field and injustices occur. Certain injustices can be rectified, and for certain injustices it is also necessary to ask whether there are injustices. I would like to mention and remind everyone here that, by implementing social legislation from the previous term, around 15,000 state pensions have also been withdrawn, with the excuse that no contributions have been paid for them and that they cannot be paid anymore. This was also a right, and today no one is advocating that these acquired rights be rectified. Or is it because in these 15,000 state pensions there is a large majority of farmers, rural women, and they have no such political weight?Oh, my God! I would point out something else that is often said to be taken by fighters. Se! One piece, but not all! My father is an active participant in the national liberation struggle, and he was not robbed of a single euro after Zuif. But it's true that he's getting a low sum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u127	Thank you very much. As the proponent of Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Granted, not all of us are in there all the time, but it is even worse that we do not listen. Today it has already been clarified, my fellow Member, what was going on with state pensions. If ZPIZ-2 had been applied, as Svetlik suggested, state pensions would have remained. Nothing would have been taken. So much so that we can explain. On the other hand, it is true that social legislation has provided even higher incomes for these low-income people on the basis of social security aid or benefits. For if they prove that their incomes are not sufficient, they have the right to such assistance. This aid can also go up to €460. That's one. Another time. It is constantly said that it is taken away from those who did not pay in the pension register. In addition to the 8,000 you are now talking about, and they were working in other Yugoslav republics, I have already warned you, there are other categories: there are those who were in JLA, there are workers in federal authorities, there are also veterans of war and so on. They spent their whole lives paying for it, but in another cash register. Slovenia, as a country, has committed itself to respect these obligations and to guarantee the rights as agreed – and no one remembers them! And the third category is people who, on the basis of special efforts, have been wronged, working conditions and so on, are granted rights under the specific laws we have adopted in this country. That's why we say we're talking about one category. Therefore, they must be treated in the same way! Therefore, the Ombudsman and the key Slovenian lawyers, former Constitutional Judges, argue that if we make selection, we are talking about discrimination and non-conformity with the Constitution. Therefore, I warn you, whatever law you are about to make or amend, because I also have the feeling that you have no intention of supporting our law, I warn you that you will continue the same story, the same injustices, the same unconstitutionality; and therefore this is not acceptable! Let's take our minds into our hands, let's stop relying on the Constitutional Court to correct mistakes behind us, if not, if it finds another circuit that does not decide on it, and the European Court of Human Rights. Let's not embarrass ourselves anymore! This is 5% of the pensioners and 1% of the income of the pension cash registers, and we hit them with 25% of the reduction in rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u130	Thank you very much again. Well, in crises, different political flows try to ignore human rights. Clearly, dignity is also one of human rights. All of us today find that Zuyf has caused injustices, that in fact more than 26,000 pensioners have actually been harmed. That's what we all find, both left and right. ZUJF is discriminatory, anti-constitutional in many respects. You also have warnings from the Ombudsman. Finally, because time is short, I announce how some imagine government justice. The pensioner, who worked in JLA and has 932 euros in pensions, is reduced by 150 euros and gets 782 euros. The second pensioner, who worked 15 years in JLA and 25 years in another company, was reduced to EUR 934 or EUR 200 taken from his pension and received EUR 734. This is justice and proportionality according to yours. I say no! That's not right, that's not fair to people. Last but not least, allow for an end, human rights must not be a luxury for better times. Human rights must be always and everywhere, even more respected in times of crisis.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor. [[She's not here.]] Mr Michael Prevc, then let Mrs Marjan Kotnik Poropat be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u132	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I see that the debate is slowly coming to an end, and I think that this is the right thing to do, because today's debate is quite full of emotion. Unfortunately, there are also many insults, populism, and many repetitions. Unfortunately, I must say that I will probably not be able to avoid repeating the facts already known in this brief debate. I must start by saying that, unfortunately, this bill cannot be supported, because this law completely destroys the purpose of those austerity effects that this government is forced to carry out if we are to put this country back on its feet, as it is called. The existing Public Finance Balance Act, which was adopted in the summer or late spring, is certainly a crisis law or could also be called a temporary measure as an adjustment to the economic situation we are in. But we know that this economic situation is very critical. Thus, the government was forced to adopt this law, with the basic guidance that all citizens, including pensioners, will bear the burden of saving, except for those who, of course, have pensions of less than EUR 622. On the part of the opposition, we often hear criticism that it is necessary to take those who have more. Dear colleagues and colleagues, that is exactly what was done by Article 143 of the Public Finance Balance Act! In proportion to the amount of the pension, more were taken from those who had more. I am surprised that only a reduction of around 3% of pensioners who have been retired under specific legislative conditions is problematic for the proposers, and there is certainly no problem for the applicant to reduce maternity leave, child benefits, the abolition of state pensions since the previous government, which my colleagues have already mentioned before, that I am not talking about reducing social rights to the weakest in society and so on. What do you say about the remaining 97% of Slovenian pensioners who spent their entire lives working and spending their entire lives in a cash register, many of whom today can only dream of 800 euros in pensions or more? In the Slovenian People's Party, we pointed out the error in the law that emerged shortly after the approval of the Public Finance Balance Act. It is said that those who have worked in other republics have also paid contributions during that period and have indeed been unduly involved in this crisis measure. It is indicative of, as has been said many times today, 8 thousand people. I just got a government law today, and I flew it fast, and I realized that this law of irregularity, the culprits that I mentioned, is also exonerating. That is why I will continue to support this government law. Unfortunately for this law, I cannot support the law of the opposition, but I would like to point out once again, for a simple reason, because with the EUR 60 million burden actually borne by this law, the purpose of the austerity measures that we are talking about and which we have been dealing with for the past year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor. Then get ready, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President! I have to read it quickly because I have little time left. I am aware that Zujf had to be accepted, and I agree that, in order to balance public finances, it was necessary to act quickly, but it is also true that in our country we are transferring the balance of public finances to categories of people who are not to blame for the situation she was in. I think most of the problem should be borne by the causes of the recession. Some countries are addressing the problem of balancing public finances by taxing more tangible ones. We decided to balance public finances with Zuyfa first and we accepted it quickly, it was in a hurry. There was no time for a regular procedure, because of the rush or the rush, the law is bad, and I hope that all measures have not been sufficiently deliberate. We have harmed people by adopting this law. Many people today find it difficult to live, not only on pensioners, but also on a large number of other groups. Thus we have affected everyone in the public sector by reducing wages, of course, in the real sector we have seen this before. In Zujf, the most problematic article is Article 143, which affected those who paid in the pension register and were employed in other republics, as well as participants in NOBs, Spanish fighters, internationalists and so on. All measures are temporary in nature, we have heard today, but even if they are temporary in nature, you harm people and injustice needs to be corrected. I hope we do this the right way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u135	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to extend my sincere thanks to President Gregor Virant for his correct action on the basis of my procedural proposal. Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues! Surely we agree that we must all contribute something to Slovenia's exit from the crisis, contribute something out of our pocket. I am here as a post-marine Member of the Interior, because I find — perhaps you do not know — that we have contributed to this in the financial sense as much as possible. We have no problem with this, as it were, we are internally at peace. Before that, my friend Mirko Brulc said, let's put ourselves on the real ground – that's right! We need to get on the real ground where we find out there's just no money. I was kind of glad to hear Dr. Križanič's Minister of Finance at the end of 2008, who then announced that there would be a minimum wage in the Republic of Slovenia by the end of the thousand-euro mandate. We all remember that. For information, today's minimum wage is EUR 763.06, a net figure of around EUR 584, which is less than EUR 622. Minister Križanič then said that the minimum wage of thousands of euros would be at the expense of increasing Slovenian competitiveness. What happened to him – because I feel for him – on the competitiveness scale Slovenia, I think in 2010, it fell by 20 cities. On a scale measuring the competitiveness of 58 countries, in 2010 we landed in an infamous 52nd place. This and other indicators are those that simply indicate that we need to stabilise public finances, which is and will urgently require a condition for re-growth and the start-up of the Slovenian economy. I'm sure we're doing good things. But I'd rather be a donor than one who has to line up at the Karitas or the Red Cross. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u137	Procedurally, Mr. Roman Jakič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u138	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Given that my colleague Prevc had earlier said that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had already sent the law that Dr. Virant was talking about, and had managed to fly it quickly, I would ask procedurally if Members who are not in such a privileged position as Mr. Prevc could obtain a law that the Government would send. Also because then the discussions of colleagues and colleagues who had concerns and did not know whether they would support this law or wait for the government to make it easier to say whether the government had satisfied their wishes and the need for this area to be adequately resolved. Procedurally, I ask that a copy of this be delivered to us; if I understand correctly, Mr Prevc has it, but if he does not have it, of course he has lied.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Jakič, for your procedural proposal. At this point, I can only say that Mr Prevc may still have an informal proposal. When this law is formally introduced and we have it and it will be reviewed, it will certainly be forwarded to all Members and Members. But he's here with us, our President of the National Assembly, so I'm sure he's behind it too. At this point in time, we do not have a marriage yet, it has not yet been filed, perhaps I have not made it clear enough that it was not officially introduced to us in the National Assembly. Mr. Janko Weber is the one with the next word. Of course, Mr Jakič, if I get information in the middle of this, I will also officially introduce you to the public. Excuse me, Mr. Janko Weber, you have the floor now.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. I think that once again we can call all our colleagues and colleagues who are waiting for government law not to wait, we have a law in the procedure. Even on behalf of everyone, I can certainly say that we are prepared to coordinate with everyone and also to take into account proposals that would also define the contribution of all these groups, which we are applying this law, because they were deprived of 20 % or more of the amount they receive to be determined for them, I don't know, of the 5%, as for all others, just as the amount was appropriate. I am convinced that all those who were once employed in enterprises in the territory of the former country, both national heroes, internationalists, refugees as well as military insurers, internal affairs officials, employees of the former JLA, then beneficiaries under the law on the correction of injustices, retired under the law on internal affairs – all are prepared to contribute to the stabilisation of this country, but to be proportionate and fair. We have this law, let's take advantage of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Now, my colleague, Mr Roman Jakič, as well as other colleagues, can inform you that we have received information from the Government that at approximately 3 p.m. a law will come to the State Assembly with the government. Now the next one is the proposaler Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič. You don't want to do this right now. Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I see that interest is in the debate. I'm asking you to sign up. I'm opening a debate. The application shall be made. I'm guessing there are five panellists reported. So each of the discussers – 1 hour and 40 minutes – has 5 minutes to discuss in the next application. Here you go. The first one has the word "magic." Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. I did not intend to advertise today at this point, but with this transfer of the government coalition, especially Mr Virant, who publicly said he would support our law and then we will correct it with amendments, while the honourable President, that the government has had time from June to today, is not. Today, at a letter meeting, she probably adopted a super law that was prepared from yesterday afternoon to this afternoon. And you are more inclined to do so only because under this proposal the law reads "Government of the Republic of Slovenia" and not "Positive Slovenia and Social Democrats". That is true: let us walk together, let us be constructive, let us draw Slovenia out of the mud! That really means it! Let's prepare, please, to explain. No! No! Only the law under which it says "Government of the Republic of Slovenia" is good. Okay! Your decision is such, but don't bluff in front of the whole of Slovenia with big words, how you want constructiveness, how you want cooperation and anything else, that's all I'm asking you. All right, let your solutions be the best, if that's what you mean, but don't sell people empty words and promises!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u144	Thank you very much again. The president of the National Assembly tricked me in public lynching because I used the word vile behavior. I admit, it's not the most appropriate word, I'll say, I may even apologize for it if I've hurt anyone personally, but you know, a judge with a gold scepter in his hands has to be credible, and at this point I'm calling on him for the words that my colleague mentioned in front of me. President Gregor Virant, after months of silence about Zujf's anticipated corrections, explained that they intend, quote, "his Members' second attempt to support the opposition corrections only in today's first parliamentary hearing and later to ease the solutions with the amendments because they are too radical". Let this be a call for constructive cooperation on our part, too, as we are co-signers of this proposal. We are prepared, indeed ready, and I believe that I can speak on behalf of all the signatories to this law, in the follow-up procedure in the second reading, the law also allows, at your request, the parliamentary procedure to be rectified. You know that in the second reading, they are able to submit and adopt amendments that correct the law. We're ready! I hope and I want you to be prepared, too, especially for the words you have spoken and which are publicly written on the web portal, if I am not mistaken, of today's Work or yesterday's Work.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u145	Mr Roman Jakič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. Today, I have heard a lot of big words about how some spent their whole lives working and 3% of the pensioners were lurking, so I understood the discussions coming from this side. These 3% of people have also spent their whole lives working and paying for pension insurance so that they can finally enjoy the fruits of their work when they are retired; and it is not fair. It's not fair that they're referred to as parasites, which are essentially something special. I'll give you an example of my mother-in-law and key, both employed on Slovenian railways, which went from Yugoslavia to the River. The mother-in-law was sent to Rijeka as a graduate lawyer and chief of staff, a father-in-law sent to Matulje to the station as head of the station. She spent the rest of her life in a Slovenian company. Her mother-in-law lost 200 euros, her pension was reduced by 200 euros and her father-in-law by 150 euros. I am now interested in what category these Members will put on the right-hand side of such cases. Look, if the Police Act was passed when Peter Wilfan proposed it, maybe this guy who went across the whole playground with a torch and threw it between the Green Dragons, couldn't be at the Tottenham game on Thursday, but was talking about waiting for a government proposal; we're waiting, waiting, and in the meantime someone happened not to say "shit". I also don't understand why you don't support it here or why you're not going to change this proposal. We all say that change wasn't fair. When I listen to my colleague Horvath, I apologize when he talks about why they don't demand through the success of what they paid for in retirement, I have to be appalled. As Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, it does not know that on 22 July the National Assembly adopted the Annex E of the applicable Law on the ratification of the Agreement on Succession Issues, which discusses the taking over of all the burdens of ourselves, just as all the burdens of ourselves are borne by the other countries that have ratified this Agreement. That is why, Vice-President, I would like to demonstrate in the National Assembly on the segments of which we all know that changes are necessary, as well as to demonstrate before this public – and this is flying to you, President – that we will demonstrate before the Slovenian public that at the points where we all know that a mistake has been made and that the pensioners have been injured for several months to say, but here we will not go to political prestige and wait for the government to send by five and five of us hope that you know so quickly that if I do, we will be able to vote at 5.35 on this law and hope that in 35 minutes that you will be fully clear whether the government has followed your wishes or not. [[...]] That's why it seems unfair to me, President, to manipulate the public in this way, to tell the pensioners that you will vote, support, eliminate this, and then withdraw when the Prime Minister offers you a shampoo and washes your head at a special evening session.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u147	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u148	Thank you very much. I have to say, when I talk about this Zuyfu, I'm truly sad about it, because for more time, he's just manipulating the consequences. Today we have been discussing key words for several hours: one is that there are economic reasons why we have made such mistakes, mistakes, one is ideological, one is even some calculations or some other new explanations, which do not actually have a head or tail. In fact, the fact is that what we were doing in the May session with a night session, with the number of amendments and then a few weeks later with a clear and loud statement by those who voted for not really knowing what they were voting for, since May or better said that I would be more precise, from June, when they only realized what they had actually adopted, because it had come into force, and to this day they are looking for a way out of trouble to actually justify their actions in May or with some agreement to reach some kind of compromise to justify their own action with some minor correction. I must say – today I have listened to my colleague Tonin – that I regret that he is not in today or now, because it is not nice to speak when someone has no opportunity, but somehow I am relying on the technique that somewhere in the National Assembly must be listening to this or that the magnetogram will be able to understand what I want to say to him. For today he gave a fine comparison and said that what about those who have 400 euros in wages or, I apologize, pensions; those who – even named them and highlighted them three! [[...]] There's no way why the three of you, and if you look at it, it's quick to pack it back in the ideological pool and somehow justify this action, I can only say that he's actually said three cases, and we're always warning that it's at least 27,000 pensioners, not those three people. If there are only three of them, we do not really have any problems in this country. Look, I'm gonna get out of a purely personal case to make it easier to talk about justice and the comparison itself. Tonin and I are both leaders of the parliamentary group, and we both have over 3,000 euros in wages, I'm sure. If we were to lower and make the same comparison with 25%, we would have to give up 750 euros. But for 750 euros, I think that Mr Tonin, my colleague, would discuss here a little differently if we took them away from him at night, in one night's session, and in particular find new and new footnotes again, how wrong that is. 25 percent — that's not enough! If it were as the colleague said – that I will not be misnamed – I do not know everyone by name – Mrs Šulin Patricia, who said that in the past one pension was virtually taken away from everyone. Look, she was taken from everyone at the time, and I don't agree with that. There was a difference. When he talked about economic calculation or economic difference, I can say that this government actually had two agendas. By the way, as far as we're concerned, she's been hiding for economic reasons. But when she was talking about who we were going to take, she was talking about ideological perception. With these two words, she plays and hides all the time when she does calculations, what and why she's ever done something. That's what's most important. If we all confess to each other today, especially those who voted in favour of making a mistake at the time – and for God's sake, stop ideologically dividing this Slovenia into two parts, because this is the way you made it, precisely with this action – then we can finally fix it. It's also one way to admit it. And let's find this money within the budget somewhere else. Don't ask me where. This should be done by those who have a budget ahead of them and who know exactly how and why and on what basis they will ever take away from someone. That is why I propose to everyone else, not to hide behind what will and will not happen and when the government will send something, but let us simply decide and support this proposal, which actually solves this problem. Finally, I must say that, of course, I strongly support that today, after eight months, the policy of this coalition may change and this is very clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Dr. Gregor Virant has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u150	Thank you. You get too upset and you don't need to. Because whether we are adopting an opposition law today or we are considering a government law, the matter will be decided definitively in November. Today is the first reading. If we accepted today, we'd have a second hearing in November. However, the government proposal comes after a reduced procedure, which means that in any case we will solve this problem in November, nothing changes. The fact that we made a deal in the coalition, I think it's a good thing. We have pointed out that the government is late with a proposal. It would be nice if we had this already in August or July on the table, when we first pointed out the problem, but we had to give a little more warning and we got the proposal or it was on the way. Of course, we know the contents of it, and you'll be there as soon as I get the law. One or the other option allows us to discuss amendments in the second reading. This government proposal, I know it, so I can talk about it, solves an important part of the problem. It solves the problem of those who have contributed, like all other insurers, to the SFRJ former republics. In my firm belief, these people must have the same rights as those who paid in Slovenian PIZ. They are nothing different, there is no other situation, there is no other circumstance; and taking them away would actually be unconstitutional. That would be unconstitutional discrimination. So this problem will be solved and must be solved. It would be wrong if you stayed the way it is. There are options for an agreement on the rest of the work. This option cannot be such that it has 80 million consequences because it will not bear this budget. However, there are options that are cheaper, which are financially sustainable, which would mean an intervention that would not be excessive, which would be fairer, which would be relatively distributed. This option exists. If you take all these pensions, without the contributions being paid, I think the total is about 400 million. If they were reduced by 5%, as were some other rights, they would save the same 20 million as they were saved by this intervention, which I think was quite unfair. So, there are options for how to solve this problem, and not break this bridge. There is a possibility that we can solve the problem together, that we can find a solution that will be acceptable to all, which will be financially sustainable, but also fair. We'll be on the same page. In November, we'll have government law at second reading. For two reasons: firstly, giving a message today to support a law that creates 80 million holes in the budget would be very wrong. It would be wrong because we can't support it. It would also be an extremely bad message to investors, partners and financial markets, and so on, if we are not going to do so in the end. Why would we say today that we're going to make an 80-million-dollar hole in the budget if we don't intend to do that in the final stage? There is a government law coming into Parliament that solves the problem of 8,000 pensioners, whose value is about €7-8 million and is much closer to what we see as a solution. That 8 million is closer than your 60 to 80 million. You're also doing what wasn't even a problem. Look, the pensioners took an intervention in the annual allowance, that's what they understood. Many of the people with whom I spoke said that they understood that there was something to be contributed in these times, because the country could not hold out in such a way as to spend two billion more each year than it does in the budget. That's not going to work. And this talk of so-called savings excitement. See, we, too, now that we have accepted Zujf and, in fact, have reduced the budget deficit, let's say that this year around 3.5% to 4%, we will still spend more than one billion more than will be raised in the budget. I'm still worried about that. We can still get a headache from the state to spend too much. So, I conclude with a call: we have a month of time, let's calm down, don't get upset, and let's work together to find a solution that will be financially sustainable, so that it doesn't make too much hole in the budget and it will be fair. That's feasible. We just have to make a deal.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u151	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. Period of the day, it's for a re-decision on the Slovenian State Holding Act. At its 39th extraordinary meeting on 4 October 2012, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 27(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of State, before the announcement, decide again on the Slovenian State Holding Act. In order to explain my request to the Council of State, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State, Dr. Andrey Rus. I'm guessing Dr. Andrey Russ is not here. That's why we're moving on to the next one. The request was addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. In order to present the opinion of the Committee, I give the floor to a member of the Magi. Mark Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u152	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 29th emergency session. Seven. On the basis of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, under the same item of the agenda, the national working body considered two proposals for laws: a proposal for a law on the management of capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia proposed to the National Assembly for consideration by mag. Alenka Bratušek and Jani Möderndorfer, as well as the Proposal for a Law on Slovenian State Holding, which was sent to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of Article 117, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee first decided that, under the same agenda item, it would consider the proposal for a law on the management of capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia by magi proposers. Alenke Bratušek and Janji Möderndorfer and the Proposal for a Law on the Slovenian State Holding of the Applicant of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee further decided, in accordance with Rule 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to decide on the basis of the Proposal for a Law on Slovenian State Holding and to draw up an updated proposal for a law. In the discussion on the articles of the bill and the amendments tabled, different opinions were expressed by the members and members of the Committee. Members and members of opposition parliamentary groups have thus re-emphasized that the Government, by adopting legislation under urgent procedure, is preventing a wider professional and public debate. Representatives of coalition parliamentary groups highlighted the positive effects and solutions offered by the proposed law. They pointed out the need for a different way of managing and managing the country's capital investments, as has been the case so far, and did not yield adequate returns and profits. The question raised was answered by the Minister for Finance, Dr. Janez Šuštaršič, who explained, inter alia, that the privatisation of the holding company would not be easier than it would have been in Kad, Court or AUKN. He stressed, however, that it is clearly a certain responsibility to prepare a capital investment management strategy and that the system will not be subordinated to the government. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia and the SD have obstructed the meeting in the decision-making process. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly and is an integral part of this report. On the basis of the decisions taken, the Committee also concluded the legislative procedure ZUKN-1 and concluded that the proposal for a law on the management of capital investments by the Republic of Slovenia proposed mag. Alenke Bratušek and Janji Möderndorfer are not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u153	Thank you very much. In order to explain the opinion of the applicant, I give the floor to the representative of the Government here to Dr Dejan Krusac, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u154	Dear Members and Members! On 4 October, the Council of State adopted a request for the Republic of Slovenia to decide again on the Slovenian State Holding Act. In its opinion, it cites the following indications to which the Government will be identified. With regard to the apparent fact that control of the operation of the Slovenian State holding company will be completely avoided by the National Assembly, the Government considers that the role of the National Assembly in the law is extremely stressed. The National Assembly will have to confirm the basic documents for the functioning of SDH. With regard to the likelihood that the appointment of the SDH Supervisory Board will be politically, the Government explains that the relevant provisions of the Act have also reviewed the OECD and made a comment under which the criterion under which candidates should not be officials of the executive branch was included in the Article. It is also important that the members of the Supervisory Board be elected by the National Assembly, with an absolute majority. Four members are elected on a proposal from the Government, one of which is proposed by the Economic and Social Council, four on a proposal from the parliamentary groups and one on a proposal from the Commission of the National Assembly for the supervision of public finances, which certainly makes it possible to avoid the impact of one policy option. With regard to the next observation that the management acts provided for by the law largely distort the influence of Parliament, the Government explains that the law also contains provisions on reporting, namely that SDH should report once a year, no later than 31 October, to the State Chamber of Operations in the past year. As far as it is clear that the whole process of adopting guidelines and strategies is actually overstated, as the government will draw up a sales programme with classification, on which it will not seek broad consensus, the Government underlines that the strategy will be substantively broader than the classification, as it will also determine the behaviour of SDH in managing investments, including how to manage, monitor performance and report on the achievement of objectives and the characteristics of financial instruments for which external valuation is not necessary. In addition, the classification will have to be confirmed by the National Assembly. According to the State Council, the greatest concern for the establishment of SDH is its financial sustainability, and the Government stresses that ownership alone does not mean anything in terms of the obligations of companies within SDH or SDH itself. The Council of State is also concerned that the law will result in a pensionable sub-optimal or nullity. The government here explains that under the law a capital company has more obligations to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia, and it is necessary to lay out a provision which requires that KAD ZPIZ also direct 10 % of the purchases it receives from SDH for sale each year. The State Council further states that the law is far from the OECD principles. In this regard, the Government explains that, during the preparation of the draft law, it has been aligned with the OECD guidelines on corporate governance, which, as one of the most important principles in the management of state-owned enterprises, lays down the principle of transparency or transparency. With regard to the further indication that the new law could lead to reckless and ineffective management, the Government explains that the law was prepared precisely because of the lack of transparency of the existing system and the lack of credibility of the Republic of Slovenia abroad and that the management of state capital investments in one place has been improved and the long-term increased value of capital investments has been achieved. With regard to the last statement on lack of accountability, however, the Government explains that the principle of liability already exists among the basic principles of the law, according to which the management of investments will need to be handled responsibly and that responsible conduct will also be ensured through clearly defined rights, obligations and responsibilities of individual holders of functions. In view of all the above, the Government proposes to the National Assembly to support the Slovenian State Holding Act in its re-decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Aware of Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which speaks of the fact that the applicant must be present at the meeting when the meeting begins, I would still ask if you are so kind as to hear the arguments of the State Council, why the veto has taken place. As an apology to the representative of the Council of State, I just have to say that the point did not start with the programme as foretold. So we had another 23 minutes to discuss. In view of the fact that the Vice-President went immediately to this point of the agenda and that the representative of the State Council actually entered the Chamber five minutes later, I would still ask, if possible, to give the floor to the Council of State or to Dr Andre Rus to see what led the Council of State to vote veto on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u157	Thank you very much. In accordance with Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure, which you referred to, it is not possible to give a word to the representative of the Council of State. Of course, such a procedural proposal could be made earlier by you and proposed that the National Assembly suspend the meeting in 10 minutes, but you did not do so. It is true, however, that we have another point where the same representative of the Council of State also has an explanation on behalf of the Council of State and it is certainly possible to combine the explanation for this point. However, for this point, I cannot give a word in accordance with the existing rules of procedure, the rules of procedure in force and also in accordance with the practice of many years. That is why we are moving forward and giving the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Procedurally, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u158	Look, presidents, we don't vote on the veto of the State Council every day. And we don't just vote on some x, y law. And more importantly, the representative is not employed in the National Assembly and does not have the same place as the Government where he can wait at the corner, and that someone would remind him and have the receiver to follow the debate of the National Assembly itself. I therefore see no reason why you should not put this proposal to all Members and Members of Parliament to the vote. You put it to the vote and we'll decide. I don't think that's a big deal, but even though a procedural proposal has been made. It was said why and let us make up our minds. That's not possible?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u159	Article 66 of the Rules of Procedure sets out the order of the debaters. And as the first proposer, the representative of the proposer. The State Council has its own jobs. If the representative of the proposer, as you say, is not at the service of the National Assembly, that is true. However, the Council of State has its job to make sure that someone, if not another, suggests that the point be interrupted in 10 minutes. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Marija Plevčak on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye again! It appears that the invasion of suspended vetoes and referendums will continue in our mandate. I am afraid that this shows that anything important for Slovenia will be proposed by any ruling political option, there will be opposition and thereby blocking reforms that are crucial to the outcome of the crisis, and preventing the introduction of new, fresh ideas to build a better future for all of us. In the DeSUS Group, we regret that neither the Slovenian policy nor the Slovenian public can overcome enough will for constructive and responsible behaviour in making decisions which at a certain point may mean progress for Slovenia. We are here today because we will again decide on the law that has already been passed in the National Assembly. The law will probably be reconfirmed, but there is already a threat to the referendum, and it costs about 4 million euros that could be spent on, say, the Slovenian economy to give bread to people, thousands of unemployed and their families, who are, I believe, some already on the verge of survival. Let me turn to today's darkness. In the DeSUS Group, when we passed the law, we acknowledged that its subject matter was certainly one of the most challenging in our mandate. We have taken the view that the way in which state property is managed so far has not been the best. The DeSUS Group supported and continues to support the solutions provided by the Slovenian State Holding Act because we estimate that the aim of the law will be to improve the management of the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia by increasing their value in the long term and that this bill will achieve this. This will certainly be done through the central management of state property by professional, ethical and moral people, I stress, morally competent people, who will be committed to acting with full responsibility for their conduct in accordance with the general principles of good governance and in accordance with the adopted documents, to which we will also give consent to Members and Members of the National Assembly. The report on holding business will also be discussed in the National Assembly. This ensures that the performance of the Slovenian State holding company is monitored and that the objectives set out in the management strategy are achieved and that the content of the principle of liability in the management of investments is applied. Last but not least, which seems very important to us in this law, we should also point out the provision on the Capital Society, Kadu, which plays an important role in the flow of funds into the pension fund. Under this law, the Capital Society retains a separate legal status within the holding company with its own supervisory board, which also oversees the management of the capital company's assets in the future and in which the representatives of pensioners and trade unions participate. Property When only used for purposes specified by the law governing pension and disability insurance. This law continues to commit Kad to the annual payment of EUR 50 million to the pension fund, which is primarily intended for the coordination of pensions, in accordance with the legislation currently in force. However, it is very important to provide additional funds to the Pension and Disability Insurance Office that it lays down the obligation of the holding company to indicate to the Capital Company 10 % of the purchases received by the holding company from the sale of its capital investments. Thus, additional funds will be provided to future generations of pensioners for the stability of the pension register; I sincerely hope so. The DeSUS Group will once again support the Slovenian State Holding Act, as we believe that the new regime for the management of state property is promising better results. Above all, it also means ensuring that we can count on more funds in the pension register.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government, representatives of the State Council, Dr. Rus! If I withdraw the New Slovenia economic programme, which we issued in a special brochure at the time of the election, and have received many praises, and establish coalition contracts in two sentences, then it is roughly as follows: we will unify and centralise the management of state-owned capital investments, we will replace the Capital Investment Management Agency with a different solution that will ensure the effective implementation of the OECD principles for sound governance of state-owned enterprises. The Slovenian State Holding Act, which we are considering for the second time today, is the realisation of the New Slovenia Commitment from the economic programme, by which management of the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia is established. The property of the Republic of Slovenia is currently owned by several legal persons who are pursuing various business objectives, and this is bad. This property is not managed optimally, which means that the purchase or return of the owner is not optimal, far from maximal, but is subordinated to the various objectives pursued by these companies. In particular, it would point out that capital investment management through the Capital Investment Management Agency has not been effective. The capital investment management strategy was not adopted and profitability was lower than expected. The concept of management through the Capital Investment Management Agency has proved to be even worse than capital investment management before the establishment of the Agency, since the Agency has taken decisions completely beyond or even contrary to the Government’s opinion. The Slovenian State Holding Act now eliminates these shortcomings in the management of capital provisions and establishes a better and more efficient system of government capital investment management, which is in line with the OECD recommendations, that is in line with corporate governance principles and in accordance with the guidelines for the management of state-owned enterprises. The positive side of this law, which has been particularly welcomed by the OECD secretariat, is the adoption of a five-year capital investment management strategy. The law sets out in detail the procedure for adopting the strategy itself. The proposal for such a strategy is prepared by the management of the Slovenian State Holding Board, approved by the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding and then forwarded to the Ministry of Finance. A coordinated proposal for a strategy is then forwarded to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which adopts the strategy and agrees to it is submitted to the National Assembly. The adoption of the strategy will define specific management objectives, including which assets may be intended for sale. The sale of state property will therefore be planned. In its commentary to the Proposal for a Law on Slovenian State Holding, the OECD has defined, under the legal provision, that, unless otherwise provided for in this Act, the principles of the Act on Economic Companies apply to Slovenian State Holding. The OECD has identified this legal solution as in line with the OECD recommendations and has even stressed that this is considered a good practice in many OECD Member States. While the OECD has made some comments on the draft law submitted, which are already in force, i.e. the law already adopted, have been amended and fully incorporated into the law. In New Slovenia, we believe that the new concept of capital investment management, as brought by this law, is good and effective, thus achieving the objective of simplifying the governance structure, clearer definitions of the purpose and criteria for the management of state investment and the creation of the country's single asset reserve. The Slovenian State Holding Act will once again be supported by Members of the New Slovenia Group. From this place, I thank once again all the members of the expert commission who did what was possible during the holidays. I regret, however, that your work has also been rejected by the State Council. However, I would like to ask that the implementation of the Slovenian State Holding Act is not copied in principle by black and criminal opponents of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u164	Today, we will be deciding again on the state’s gold, silver, or other property left to the State and all of us. The value of all of this is expected to be somewhere between €9 billion and €11 billion. We still do not know what the real number is; we do not know how much of this property will be transferred to the holding company; we do not know what value this property will be transferred to the holding company, nor do we know what liabilities will be transferred to the holding company along with the assets. We know virtually nothing, but we know that you support this solution without all these answers, but you support it. What we are interested in is very professional questions, and we have repeated them several times. Once again: How much and what assets, at what cost, and with what obligations will it be transferred to holding? The question is, there are no answers. Your answers usually start somewhere in Avno and end on the old left in the current presidential elections. These are your professional answers, let's talk about a crime prevention strategy, a budget, a bad bank or anything else. Positive Slovenia supports the management of assets in one place, has prepared and introduced its law to regulate the management of assets in one place, effective and better than it is now regulated, and ownership would remain where it is today, in Kadu, in the Court and in the State. But our marriage was on your desk for exactly three seconds, and according to you, it wasn't suitable for consideration. Why, of course you didn't say. Just because he's ours obviously means he's not good. Every day, you invite us to step together, to shrink our species, and to be constructive. But is that only for us? What about you, dear colleagues and colleagues in the coalition, do you not hear our requests that we do what we have to do in order to talk substantively, that we want to adopt the laws of the right data-based arguments? For constructiveness and cooperation, two are always necessary. Stepping together does not mean that you are standing in a position and putting us before the facts, your "step together" means taking or leaving; and take what you want and prepare. Experts say the law is unconstitutional. The state council has voted veto, even a referendum has been announced, but nothing stops you, absolutely nothing! You know what people on the street say about the so-called golden fiscal rule? "Gold you and the rules to us," people say. You're lucky because you're going to take with a new holding company everything that this country's still going through, and the rules to people because they're always getting new measures and savings. That's what people say. And how right they are! We don't know what you're going to take into holding, we don't know what value and we don't know what obligations you have; but we do know that you support this. And that should be enough to support your marriage? It's not enough! A positive Slovenia will not support the law if there are hugely open questions to which you have not answered. However, if, by any mistake, the law will not be passed today or rejected by people at the referendum, you still have our proposal in the drawer; the proposal of Positive Slovenia, which is significantly better than yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u166	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! So far, state property has not been managed effectively, and state-owned companies have achieved significantly worse business results than comparable companies. There are several reasons for inefficient management and sub-average performance. They would point out at least two, namely the dispersion of ownership among government stakeholders and inadequate and inadequate legislation. The Slovenian State Holding Act contains provisions and techniques that will enable and ensure more efficient, rational, transparent and responsible management of state assets and thus enable better business results of companies. With the enactment of the law, there will cease to exist a Capital Investment Management Agency which has failed to fulfil its core mission, such as the preparation and adoption of a State Property Management Strategy, and one of the ministers of the previous government has named this institution as the peak of the icy mountain of corruption. A special working group consisting of members of the coalition and the opposition was set up to draft the Slovenian State Holding Act, which was not the practice of the previous government, and thus the current government has taken a major step forward and has shown that it is aware of the importance of the law with a view to reaching as broad a consensus as possible. The amendments tabled have improved the law in both substantive and technical terms, and it should be stressed that the amendments tabled have mainly taken into account the comments and proposals of the opposition, the social partners and the professional and general public. It was noted that a bad bank was excluded from the holding company that when a single legal entity remained, that the Blue Insurance Company would remain a subsidiary of Kad to keep the compulsory pension fund in Kad, the proposal to recall members of the Supervisory Board could be made by all applicants, an absolute majority of the members of the Supervisory Board needed to be elected in the National Assembly, an anti-corruption clause had been incorporated into the law, the holding public must inform the public in accordance with the rules applicable to public shareholders. The law contains the principle of transparency of business, the principle of cost-effectiveness, the principle of accountability, the principle of measuring and monitoring efficiency, the principle of separation of the purpose of assets and the OECD recommendations and guidelines. All of this has ensured that the law will achieve its purpose and purpose. It is important to stress that the law contains a number of safeguards that will prevent headless and imprudent sales of state property. The law provides for transparent business and enables multi-stage supervision of the company's business, both by the supervisory board of the company in which both the representative of the opposition and the representative of the Economic and Social Council are established and, of course, by the National Council, as the National Assembly will adopt the most important documents for the holding company's business, such as the investment management strategy, the classification that will include the country's targeted stakes in individual investments, the list of strategic investments, the list of investments for sale, the methods of sale and the annual holding report. It should be noted that the Slovenian State Holding Act guarantees the stability and long-term sustainability of the pension fund as the holding company has an obligation to charge 10 % of the proceeds from the sale of investments in the capital company. In view of all that is stated in the SDS Group, we estimate that the intimidation of the sale of state property and the speech about the theft of the century by some opposition parties is unjustifiable, and we estimate that there are no substantive reasons for a referendum on the law that would constitute a very bad signal to the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund. With the implementation of the Slovenian State Holding Act, effective, responsible and transparent management of state property will be ensured, enabling the further development of Slovenian companies. Slovenia will also send a positive signal to the European institutions by implementing the law. Therefore, the SDS Group will once again support the Holding Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! It is very clear to say that the Slovenian State Holding Act is not intended to solve the crisis and is not a reform law, but a law which means the last phase of privatisation of state-owned enterprises past the National Assembly, past the Court of Auditors and hidden to the public. Social Democrats will therefore strongly oppose the Proposal for a Law on Slovenian State Holding, which is the biggest policy intervention in the management of state property, as 12 billion assets, owned by the State and thus by all of us, will, in return, be transferred irreparably to the ownership of the Slovenian State Holding Company. The bill introduces the least transparent form of investment management in Slovenia. In Slovenia, holding companies have a tradition of least transparent management, just to mention the case of Istrabenz holding company, which damaged other property owners, the same has happened in holding Zvon One and Zvon Two. The form of governance, as the Government imagines, goes in this direction: organised companies will be exhausted and then sold out cheap. The consequences will be the flow of money abroad, we will be left at home without the best jobs and money. Here I would like to remind you that we will be left with billions of debts due to a bad bank and even billions of debts due to an expensive debt in America, but there will be no income that we can generate through our own assets to settle these debts. The last blow is thus promised to the state property, severely devastated by tycoon stories between 2004 and 2008. The fate of 100,000 Slovenian and Slovenian jobs will be delivered into the hands of a capital-political apparatus, which will have a wide open door to a billion-dollar gambling. This law actually allows for the largest theft in the history of Slovenia. Mercury's story is a drop in the sea compared to what this holding will allow. Insurance company Triglav, Telekom, Krka, Holding Slovenian power plants, Petrol, electricity distribution companies, Post office Slovenia is just a few of these companies that are literally our gold. It is not in vain to point out that the intentions of the ruling coalition are all sooner than the nobleness of the property in the spirit of a good master. The payment of 1.6 billion denationalisation beneficiaries is the goal you are pursuing in this law. So it is not a priority to raise economic growth and solve the economic crisis, but to continue to exhaust Slovenia; and all of this will be achieved through the imprudent sale of our most important companies. As additional evidence and justification for all that we are saying to the Social Democrats, the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia in 2013-2014, which was tabled by the Government, is also a law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in the process. This law provides for the sale of €3.4 billion of Slovenian property managed by Kad in two years. When it is established to provide a stable cash register for the payment of pensions, in two years Kad will virtually be destroyed by selling the 3.4 billion assets he owns to manage capital investments in our Slovenian state companies. So in two years the capital company will virtually be gone and there will no longer be a guarantee to provide the pension system in such a form and scale as you think the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister has offered it to you. This is the last wave of privatisation, so we think that people should make decisions and tell them if they want to sell state property and if they want to put 100,000 jobs at risk. Due to the sale of state property, the depletion of businesses and the threat of jobs, and thus our future, the Social Democrats will oppose the Proposal for a Law on Slovenian State Holding until the end of the legislative process.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Starman on behalf of the Group of the National Gazette. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u170	Nice hello to you all! Members of the National List will once again support the Slovenian National Holding Act. We do not understand those who oppose him; we do not understand the reasons why they oppose the adoption of this law. It has been said that we do not know what we are putting in this holding company, at what value, with what debts and the like. True, it is possible that the accounting numbers will only show up at the time of the transfer, and we also know that we do not tolerate whole companies, but only shares. But it doesn't matter at all. There is something else important that we know exactly: we have dealt with and managed very badly with state property in all the years of independent Slovenia. State property is a state-owned enterprise which could bring much more, but it is not, no matter how much the government or anyone has tried, always the owner of this property is the country whose executive authority is the government. And it is also right that she will also focus in the future on managing this property as rationally as possible. Creating at least one billion revenue from this title is a minimum annually, which must be achieved by a new way of managing. I hope - of course I am not quite sure, because no one can be sure, we only know that none of the ways that have been so far has been effective, and we hope that it is already within the very structure of this new law, which unites everything in one place, by uniform rules, that the matter will be more successful; of course, but it is not certain. However, if at least part of this new management system succeeds, a large contribution will be made to all of us, taxpayers and those who need money bloodyly. I tell you that the billions of euros that could be created by these companies – last year, the shares of the country have generated 135 million losses, in 2010 395 million euros in losses. Thus is the AUKN report, such are the figures, and the results have been poor before. Let me say that I have had experience at least four times in companies I have managed to achieve 100% higher productivity, 100% higher added value to the employee, 30% reduction in all costs. And you can do that in these companies! This would mean much more if we could achieve this than what I say we would achieve, at least 10% of the profit from the assets. And that's what I don't understand about those who oppose it when they've been witnesses all these years, that this property didn't bring anything into the Treasury; it's a shame we had it. If that were the case, we should have sold it, this 12 billion, 10 years ago, when we could have spent 40 billion euros on it. Of course, I'm not afraid of selling anything. For all companies where we will be able to ensure quality and profitable business, it would be stupid to sell them. And I see no reason to prejudge any sale with this law. We'll decide that later, and we'll sell what's not worth having. I am against it myself, and I think it is necessary to make order and that this state property will bring something into our poor cash register. I don't understand the unions or the opposition that oppose it, even though they know exactly what we've lost in the last 10, 20 years because of mismanagement. We are now coming up with a different proposal to improve this management. No one can put their hands in the fire to make 100% better, but surely it won't get worse! It is because of what we are discussing here about these companies, which have actually spent the entire period throwing money out of the window, that they were operating irrationally. It's a shame when I worked in these bad companies, in the textile industry and so on, I said to myself that once I had access to some Telekom or some electricity distribution, how much money could the state have, because I would have made it as orderly as I had in those companies that were poor, and yet we knew how to make a profit. In short, we will once again support the proposal. I hope that there will be no one who will support some referendums and thereby cause itself harm. We're gonna do a lot of damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government and the Council of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! That this is a politically sensitive matter, for some in the opposition, we have also felt the Slovenian People's Party's Members on our skin. So many quantifications, insults, and accusations have not yet been received by most of us. And all of this at the expense of what we are supposed to do in the indefinite future: to steal everything, to sell it cheap, to rob for centuries, to dump 100,000 people on the road, and many more, completely fictional stories we have been able to hear. Today in the Slovenian People's Party, I hope that for the last time we say that it is not true, no place will be, no sale will be, no mass forgiveness will be, we will only change the current practice of managing state property, which we all probably agree was catastrophic. No matter who was in power. So let's at least try to change something that obviously doesn't work. In the previous term, we were critical in the Slovenian People's Party to the operation of the new Capital Investment Management Agency. Why? Because, according to our assessment, it was only a bridge between politics and the direct impact on the functioning of certain companies. This was confirmed by both the fiasco around the Human Resources Accreditation Council and the controversial recapitalisation of the New Bank of Maribor. Therefore, the Slovenian People's Party went to the last elections with the programme point to end the AUKN and transfer all investments under the direct responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, on the basis of a clear strategy of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, must be responsible for the effective management and management of state property. This is what we are doing now, because the ruling policy cannot escape responsibility and hide under the carpet, while at the same time drawing some moves from the background. The difficulty of establishing a holding company is that we manage state property in one place, where we will be able to verify how successful we are after a period of time, with concrete internationally established criteria. This means that we will know exactly how successful the governance of each individual government has been. Since we currently have many management institutions, each has its own responsibilities, administrations, supervisory councils. All of this is imprecise, and responsibility spreads out among hundreds of people. So, should we keep this situation going? Is that really what we want? The holding company's responsibility will no longer be shared. It will be carried by one administration and one supervisory council, one government, and finally by the National Assembly. Most importantly, the law stipulates that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will adopt a long-term asset management strategy. So that policy decides what we want to keep in the long term in state ownership, where we will remain only portfolio investors and what we will leave to the private sector. The opposition's allegations that we will sell everything are twisted out of the vine, that we will sell only what the National Assembly will approve in the coming years, and that not all prices will be rushed to individual companies, but more long-term owners who will also be able to offer a long-term vision of development will be responsible. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will once again vote in favour of the Slovenian State Holding Act because it means a shift in mentality, responsibility to state property. Because we owe it to people to do things differently with state property than we've done before.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u173	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Procedurally, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u174	Thank you, President, once again for your word. I would also like to draw attention to Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure, which I referred to when you decided not to allow the National Assembly to decide on the possibility of presenting the applicant or the requirements of this item on the agenda. In fact, the second paragraph makes it very clear that the applicant or his representative must provide a supplementary explanation if the National Assembly so decides. The fourth paragraph of this Article of the Rules of Procedure also speaks of the fact that the applicant may be given a word at any time by agreeing with your explanation that, as stated in the Rules of Procedure, the positions of both the home working body, the representative of the Government as well as the representatives of the parliamentary groups, and after this discussion I think that the fourth paragraph of Article 66 applies, so that the applicant may receive any word at any time. However, I think that there is another minor problem if, following the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups, the National Assembly decides in accordance with the second paragraph and if it decides to present the applicant with a supplementary explanation, we also allow it to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Weber, I explained earlier why I cannot give my word to the applicant. However, I also said that the applicant can take advantage of the following point and also give an opinion on the five-minute performance, which I admit is not entirely in line with the Rules of Procedure, but because he has a word, he can take advantage of it. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The decision on the law will be made today, within half an hour of the end of the 16th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. On the day-to-day basis, this is a re-decision on the law on the measures of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of the stability of banks At its 40th extraordinary meeting on 10 October 2012, the Council of State, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, requested that the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks be again decided before the announcement. To explain my request to the Council of State, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State, Dr. Andrej Rus. Please, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u176	Dear Members, Members and others present at this meeting! I apologize for the complication. I waited for an hour and a half on the window shelf, and yet I missed this session, which I have the same status as Members of Parliament, I have not even a chair, so it was not a sign of disrespect for the National Assembly, but simply a technical inability to arrive at the right time from the window shelves I am. With regard to the law on strengthening the stability of banks to which the State Council has adopted a veto, it would point to the main arguments. First time. The proposed model for bank resolution is the most expensive possible model. Indeed, the capital adequacy of banks would be improved by only EUR 100 million on each billion-purchased claims. It is suggested that recapitalisation would be a significantly better solution. That's the first reason. The second reason is that the law provides for the redemption of all bank claims, including the shares of banks in companies as well as private debts of natural persons. The government has not established, or the law says, that the Government will rule out what claims are being redeemed, so a number of abuses will be possible. The law does not provide any assurance that the claims of good companies would not be transferred to a bad bank, that mortgage loans of citizens would not be transferred to a bad bank and we ourselves know how such discretion of the Government would then give added power to the Government over civil society in the economy and civil and political society themselves. In order for the measure to be full, even normal fuses will not work. The law provides in Article 29 that there are exceptions to laws. One of these is that the provisions of the law governing the bonding relationship in contesting the debtor's legal acts do not apply, and that they also lose their legal certainty and there is no guarantee that there will be no abuse; and that which the debtors have. Third time. The law allows us to save not only banks but also bank owners. It is perfectly normal that with a bank so bad that it needs state aid, owners lose everything and then there is either recapitalisation or bankruptcy. In this case, the state will raise 4 billion to save banks when and if it sells, the owners will participate in the purchase of the saved banks, even though they will not contribute to this. Fourth, fourth point is management. It is the political management of a bad bank, which will be practically a government body, where the Governing Board and the Assembly will be composed of the Government, and only the obligations of this government body will not have the same as other government authorities. We further believe that we can learn something from the bad example of Ireland. Ireland regrets the establishment of a bad bank and the collection of claims. This reduced the ratings, weakening the economic power of Ireland and proving its weak economic growth to this day, as well as the advice of Irish economists, who warn and deter us from doing so. And maybe not the last time we go back to holding. The Bad Bank will end at the end of 2017. At that time, her claims or empty jacket will be transferred to the Slovenian state holding company, which you have just set up. This is essentially the possibility that what is left for the pension fund and other beneficiaries will be no more than one great public debt, with which we will continue to entangle and transfer it to the next generation for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the next debater or rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, allow me to make the following notification. This means that the Government has put its proposal for a new Law on Public Finance Balance in the legislative process and has already been published in the computer network of the National Assembly and online. This is based on the discussion at the preceding item on the agenda. We are once again in a re-decision on the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. The request was also addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. In order to present the opinion of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. To Andre Shirtzle. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u178	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Ambassadors and MPs, Secretary of State! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has considered the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide once again on the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. In this regard, the Committee was provided with the following material: the request of the State Council, the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government. At the meeting itself, Dr Andrej Rus, representative of the Council of State, presented in more detail the reasons for the request for re-decision on this law. The Council of State considers that in view of the fact that a bank claim management company is being set up, which will be 100 % of the country's property, to transfer the burden of past bad decisions to taxpayers by this law. The company will be financed by a state guarantee of up to €4 billion. In the view of taxpayers, the proposed rescue model is thus the most expensive in the view of the State Council, while at the same time allowing for the purchase of all bank claims, including the ownership shares of banks in companies. The Council of State also believes that there is a possibility of abuse. Regarding the valuation of claims, however, the Council of State finds it difficult to assess what the remuneration will be. The National Council also notes that the purpose of the law is not to rehabilitate banks to save the economy and jobs. The Council of State also considers that damage to state property will occur on the basis of such an established law. It also notes that certain provisions of the law are contrary to the Company Act. It also notes that at the time of the liquidation of this company, assets and peacocks from the obligations of these companies will be transferred to the Court or its legal successor, which means that the entire risk of redemption will be passed on to taxpayers. These deficiencies or inconsistencies and inconsistencies with other regulations are the reason for the request that the Council of State accept the request that the National Assembly decide again on the regulation. The representative of the Ministry of Finance, Secretary of State Aleš Zivkovic, explained the current situation in the banking system and said that the decline in credit ratings and the rise in interest rates for borrowed funds was also addressed by the Government through this bill. The Government also expects that the law will have a favourable impact on the release of credit crunches, as the bad claims of state banks will be transferred to society, thereby increasing the capital adequacy of banks and releasing lending funds. In the debate, members of opposition parliamentary groups pointed out that the establishment of a so-called bad bank is the most expensive way to rehabilitate banks and added that international experience regarding the establishment of bad banks is poor and cited the case of Ireland. They pointed out that the law legitimizes the sale of 10 % of the assets to be sold annually by the company. They found that there was little control and that the real role of Banka Slovenije was not. They also find it unacceptable to resolve the losses of private owners. They also said that, despite the establishment of a bad bank, recapitalisation would be necessary, and expressed fear of the bad effects on the increase in deficits and public debt. In the debate, members of coalition groups supported the law, as it is necessary to act immediately and improve the capital adequacy of banks. They've warned us that bank control has been bad so far. On the role of Banka Slovenije in the drafting of the law, however, they said that the bank was involved in the preparation and that their concept of bank resolution was different from the concept in the law. They considered that the problem was that credit crunches also caused losses to companies with good products and strategically important. They stressed that companies are the ones that will lead Slovenia out of the crisis. The exchange of bonds at the European Central Bank was said to be a matter of negotiation with the European Central Bank. As for international experience, however, they pointed out that in Germany and Sweden there is good experience in setting up a bad bank. After discussion, the Committee adopted the following opinion by a majority of all members, 9 for and 7 against: The Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks is appropriate. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u179	Thank you very much. In order to explain the opinion of the proposed law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Dejan Krušec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u180	Dear Members and Members! At the request of the Council of State, you are now re-declaring the law on measures to strengthen the stability of banks. Let me stress that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the reason for the State Council's veto. For a little while about the law. The Act on measures to strengthen the stability of banks provides for measures to improve the situation in the Slovenian banking system and consequently throughout the financial system. The main purpose is to revive the lending of the economy and to remove the credit crunch, and we are also expected to improve the credit ratings of banks and also of the Republic of Slovenia after the implementation of the measures, thereby allowing easier access to funding sources. And here's something about the State Council's arguments. In its request to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to reconsider the law, the Council of State recalls in particular the moral gambling that the law is supposed to introduce. The government has this opinion of the challenge, as there are several law-abiding moral gamblers who prevent moral gambling. Let me just list some. It is the limitations of the banks which receive this measure; it is the appropriate way of evaluating which the European Commission has to prescribe and confirm; it is a matter of concealing losses against existing owners; it is a matter of taking measures on the part of owners before taking measures under this law and so on. Also, to include only loans granted prior to 1 September of this year, the fuse is going in this direction. If you believe that moral gambling will still be present, let me point out that the European Commission prohibits moral gambling. The State Council also wrongly states that the proposed model for bank resolution from the point of view of taxpayers is the most expensive. On the contrary, the government emphasises that the costs of the measures will, under the law, be minimised and taxpayers' funds reimbursed. Beneficiaries' banks will be obliged to pay compensation for the guarantees issued and the costs will be reimbursed primarily by making up the transferred claims. Other countries have the same model. From this point of view, it is unacceptable that countries that have introduced such a bad bank, such as Ireland, Sweden, as well as Greece, should opt for the most expensive claim resolution model in these countries. The National Council also wrongly states that an untransparent bank rehabilitation body is being established, which will have no responsibility to the National Assembly. On the contrary, the Government explains that the law specifically highlights the role of the National Assembly, since many provisions provide for reporting to the National Assembly. It is also very important that the Bank Claims Management Company disclose to the public all information relevant to its business as well as to all public shareholders, except in the case of information which is confidential under the Banking Act. The same provision is made in other countries that have such a society to manage bad claims. Many of these provisions are summarised by German regulation. The most recent observation of the State Council, which I point out, is that the transfer of the liabilities of the Bank Management Company threatens the long-term sustainability of the provision of additional pension funds. The Government responds that it would be inappropriate to require the company to fully sell its assets within five years, as this could put pressure on it, which would result in a lower selling price. Let me get this straight. The perceptions of the State Council are also evident to other bad banks that are successful and operating in other countries in the euro area. Let me mention again: Germany, Ireland, Greece, Sweden. Many of these models have also been uploaded by the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund. In view of all the above, I propose that, in re-decision, the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Representatives of the parliamentary groups are next. Mr Jožef Horvat on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The global society and, in particular, the state of Slovenia are in a financial debt crisis and consequently the economic crisis is due to a lack or a lack of respect for values. This means that key people in the political, financial, economic sphere who have been entrusted with great responsibilities, in their conduct, in the management of trust and property and processes have not taken into account the generally known human values. Even in Slovenia. Greed was the one who plunged mankind into a crisis from which we simply cannot find a way out. Surely solutions are not simple and it is likely to take some time to come out of the crisis. In doing so, however, a great crowd of citizens are not guilty of the situation in the country and are completely powerless. When at least a large part of humanity can expect a stable political and social environment, the question that has this time, this moment is utopian in character and we are also asking it in Slovenia, of course. What are the objectives of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks? I cite five of the most important objectives: first – remove bad claims from banks, which will reduce doubts about the balance sheets of credit institutions. In this way, banks will reduce their exposures to creditors unable to repay their claims. The consequences will be higher credit ratings for the bank and easier access to funding sources. The second objective is to recapitalise credit institutions, which is a condition for starting a new credit cycle. Thirdly, prepare restructuring plans for banks that will allow for long-term operations without State aid. Fourth objective – flexible restructuring of corporate debt to banks. And the fifth objective is to consolidate the banking system by combining, connecting and taking over, which is essential to increase efficiency and facilitate access to capital. Today we are discussing again the establishment of a Bank Claims Management Company, a so-called bad bank, which represents an extremely important systemic decision for the future of Slovenia, because with a bad bank the country will be able, inter alia, to issue bonds with a state guarantee of up to EUR 4 billion. Here I express the key expectation of the New Slovenia Group, and this is that the so-called bad bank will be managed by the most competent Slovenian cadre. However, we do not mind if a well - known foreign manager or financial expert sits on the board of directors. In the face of all the mistakes in the management of certain state-owned business entities, I stress in state-owned property, we often have the question of whether we have enough good, competent people at home; people who are decorated with business ethics, hearts; managers who could face difficult problems in the management of state property, who have not put under AUKN the expected financial impact to improve citizens' well-being. I would like to highlight three more conclusions or recommendations from the New Slovenia Group and members of the New Slovenia Committee of Experts, which also includes experts with international experience in the most prominent global financial institutions. Firstly, the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to ensure the stability of banks is good. Green light was also given by the European Central Bank, a public document signed by the President of the ECB, Draghi. The ECB's comments were taken into account with the amendments. Secondly, particular attention should be paid to the management of the bad bank, which must be professional in the broadest sense of the word. The managers of the bad bank should give an annual report on their assets, the so-called "Financial Disclosure". Thirdly, the wages of the managers of the bad bank should depend largely on the success of the business, i.e. on speed and efficiency in solving problems. Moderate wages, basic salaries and significant bonuses for the success or effectiveness of a bad bank’s business or mission. The New Slovenia Group announces its support for the law. Mutual discredit does not lead to good solutions, nor does it lead to a series of referendums and not a series of vetoes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mag Alenka Bratušek on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u184	Saving banks is an emergency, that's a fact. This is what we are late for; it is also a fact. And the fact is, with your bad bank, you're not going to solve the underlying problem, that's a credit crunch. The economy of this solution will have nothing. That's what this economy reminds you of, but you don't hear. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, an organisation that brings together the economy, has sent you a lot of comments and concerns. The economy has comments and concerns about the laws that you say will help them. This may surprise us. That the solution is not good, you are warned by an Irish professor who says, "Don't repeat our mistakes!" In Ireland, credit is declining today, two and a half years after a bad bank is established – but you can't hear! The Bank of Slovenia and the European Central Bank warn – but you do not hear! Unfortunately, we have not seen the signature mentioned by my colleague before me. The European Central Bank has not agreed to the law we have today in the National Assembly. We warn you, opposition – but you can't hear us either! You've decided, you've decided that this solution is best for our banks. We're back on the same page! We don't know what you're taking to a bad bank, we don't know how much, and we don't know what the price is. But we do know that you would support this solution, and that your assessment is that this is the best solution. But we also know that this kind of rehabilitation is the most expensive. You don't know what, you don't know how much and at what cost, but you know it's going to cost 4 billion euros. Do you know how much money that is? And you talk about it so easily. In the next year you will give one billion clean money as you like to use the term, you will put one billion clean money in banks, 3% of the gross domestic product! This is defined by the Law on the Implementation of Budgets, which we also have on the table. One billion! But just before that, we were fighting and arguing about the 80 million you took from the pensioners. Madam, who has been quoted many times and you are thrilled by her, Mrs Merkl, at the last European summit, I think that our President Janša was there, along with the banking legislation being adopted in Europe, said that the quality of the solutions taken is important, not speed, or that quality is significantly more important than the speed of adoption. But you don't hear that either. You're in a hurry, and everything has to be quick and fast. The quality of the decision is irrelevant. You don't know what, you don't know how much, and you don't know what the price is; but you support the law. The adoption of the law will not be the responsibility of public servants, as you would repeatedly want to take the blame on them; it will not be the responsibility of the Government which has drawn up the law, but it will be your responsibility to uphold the law. Decisions are made here in the National Assembly, not in the ministries and not in the government! Here in the National Assembly and here in this place is the responsibility for these decisions. We have talked a lot about Slovenia lately with illustrations: "a ship with holes in the sail, in a huge ice, we need icebreakers" and yet it has been heard, so I will finally allow myself a single parable. The ship's passengers are not responsible for the captain's and crew's faults, and you, the members and members of the coalition, are responsible for the ship's mistakes! Positive Slovenia, of course, will not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Šircelj on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The rehabilitation of Slovenian banks, especially state and parastatal banks, is one of the key measures to bring Slovenia out of the crisis. This is part of measures that also concern public finances, the pension system, the labour market and property management. So far, the way banks have been saved, especially by state and parastatal banks, has been ineffective. Finally, these banks were given the opportunity to resolve their claims at any time, or in 2007, or in 2008, or in 2009 until 2012 – and they were not saved by bad claims. Today we are talking about how these banks, in particular these banks, will transfer these claims to a special society. We have been waiting for more than four years, and this is speed, and because of this speed of state and parastatal banks is the Slovenian economy in a spasm. As a result, economic growth is still negative, and as a result, it is still becoming increasingly unemployed, and as a result, there is a lot of pessimism in this society. In other words, this means that private banks already transferred bad claims to special companies in 2009. In other words, this means that Germany established two bad banks already in 2008 and 2009, and that was, of course, speed. We didn't do it with us. We did not do this because there was simply no motivation for those, and it is undeniable that it is totally unacceptable to expect those who caused bad claims to resolve these claims. We could only save them by sweeping the responsibility under the rug, and that's actually what this is about. It is also the case that loans granted to companies include loans that can be non-insured or that have been granted on the basis of customerism or that have been made on the basis of knowledge, perhaps on the basis of political pressure. And in such cases, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking banking banditry! This banking banditry must be found responsible. This law also lays down liability, both criminal and indemnity, especially for those who did not work in accordance with banking rules and in accordance with banking ethics. Today, when we talk about successful cases of resolution of bad claims, we are talking about Sweden, we are talking about Germany and, finally, in Ireland, they are predicting economic growth in gross social product. The gross social product in this country will actually start to grow positively after a few years of negative growth. This law determines what we will endure — we will endure bad claims. These poor claims will be determined professionally on the basis of the professional criteria known by the banking profession known by the evaluators. It is estimated how many of these bank claims there are, in particular in state and parastatal banks, and finally the price is fixed. The long-term market price is established in the law and, of course, this value is determined on the basis of the individual valuation. This law solves not only the banking system but also solves the problems of the Slovenian economy, which is why in the Slovenian Democratic Party we will once again support the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u188	We have a problem, this problem is called over indebtedness of the Slovenian economy. We propose that we begin to resolve this problem, but we call for this problem to be resolved in a rational and realistic way that will optimally trigger bank credit activity. Why aren't the banks lending today? On the one hand, because companies are over-indebted on the other side of the table, and because banks do not have a discretionary space to properly manage bad investments, they value and weaken their balance sheets, thus do not have the opportunity to launch credit activity. Not all bad investments are irreparably bad investments. Smart management of these investments can also restore active and profitable businesses from economic patients, which will continue to provide jobs. The fact is, without the intervention of the State, this problem cannot be solved. We have two concepts: one is a bad bank, where we have a series of experiences from other countries with the most illustrative example of Ireland. The case of Ireland, which shows that there has been a radical increase in the public financial deficit, a radical increase in public debt just because of the poor bank's misappropriation concept. On the other hand, we have an alternative that is 10 times cheaper; the public is unpopular because this public has long heard about bank recapitalisations, but I suggest that we finally find that the recapitalisations of Slovenian state banks have had one problem so far, and this is that they have not been sufficient. The comparison between countries shows that, from the beginning of the economic and financial crisis at the end of 2008, we have recapitalised banks in a significantly smaller share than other European countries. If we want to recapitalise to the same extent as, for example, Germany, Great Britain, the Netherlands, then we should invest 2.4 billion euros in the bank – we do not support this scenario. We believe that it is necessary to invest sufficient public funds in banks to strengthen their capital position, to improve their capital adequacy, because, due to the tight conditions of the bank's regulator, they face the problem of the decline in this capital adequacy whenever credit is released and the fall of capital adequacy closes their doors to the available resources in the interbank market. So if we want to launch credit activity, let us not repeat the mistakes of the countries that have entered this car, but follow the example. My predecessor said that those who caused the problem couldn't solve the problem. How strongly I agree with them! Over indebtedness of the Slovenian economy, a large majority of the bad investments occurred during the first Janša government, whether or not they wanted it. I don't believe the Yangsze government is capable of solving this problem because it's solving it in the wrong, too expensive way. Not only will the cost, in the end, and this experience of Ireland clearly show when, irrespective of the increase in public debt, regardless of the increase in public deficit, the basic problem of credit crunch after two years is not even exceeded. So we're proposing another way. This law and the Slovenian State Holding Act are, in fact, massive property movements; assets in political institutions, which will be politically managed and in which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Yangshe government, will have a dominant political influence. Both are legally threatened by a referendum. Remember, the harmful effects of a possible referendum that will show once again how we are not capable of a smart agreement in this country, will not be the responsibility of the opposition, will not be the responsibility of the unions and will not be the responsibility of the citizens who will support the referendum. This will be the responsibility of the arrogant authority, who cannot listen to what the profession considers to be the opposition, as the European Central Bank, the Bank of Slovenia, the economic association, the citizens think. This, Your Honor, will be your responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Starman on behalf of the Group of the National Gazette. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u190	Have a nice hello again. Of course, we will once again support this law in the National Gazette, and we have no fear of being responsible for this decision. I will not go into the details of the law itself, because they have already been told, and I hope that this law will, at least to a large extent or definitively prevent these rude pigs that have happened in our state banks in the last – in fact, always. Here was a place where money was actually thrown through windows, friends, colleagues, non-professionally, without proper coverage and without proper control. I don't know who's hoping to stand up to our citizens and argue that there's nothing we need to do here. We have been here for at least a year, but it is clear that we have thrown 10 billion money through the window; 10 billion euros in the last ten years at least. Yes, how could we afford only 500 million in the next budget debate and I don't know where! I really don't understand the unions that are vetoing something that's changing around here. I think it's actually a terrible thing to listen to, because it seems that some people in all ways want to defend that it would not be allowed and possible to look at these bad claims, to find out who made them, in what way and who is responsible for this situation that we have done. In Slovenia we have a severe crisis, a major problem, many times we are responding to the European economic crisis. I tell you, this has affected our state of affairs of 10 to 15 percent, 85 to 90 percent of the stupidity and the situation we're in, it's our own fault: with the very poor functioning of the country, with very poor leadership, no matter what government was here at work. I tell you, once again, when we're talking about these billions, that blocking this hole that's been happening through state banks means about one billion in the last ten years of the money that we've been pushing away. I always say in the companies where I've been doing rehabilitation, to cover up the holes where the blood is leaking, and to bring in some new source of money. The previous debate on State holding is supposed to bring some new billion into our budget, which is supposed to reduce unjustified flows of money from our wallets to tax havens and elsewhere. I'm talking about three more; one thing we've been processing in some way when we've cut spending by about a billion euros with this so-critified Public Finance Balance Act. There are also two budgets ahead of us for 2013 and 2014, which, in my view, are still too generous in spending, we could save something more. I hope we actually save a little bit more, I don't think we have to do one billion minus in these things. We have another point that's not so important right now, and it's on the long run. We also spend about a billion euro too much money on public procurement, which is too complicated and allows for all kinds of customerism and various friendly connections and thus greater costs of the country. And one more point of the five I'm talking about, I'd say. The fact is that with a little skill we could collect a few more taxes, I hope we are on the right track. If we are able to agree on flat-rate decisions and some solutions that will provide a slightly higher income from the taxes themselves, and if we settle these five areas, it is said, three new flows of money, these are taxes and state-owned enterprises or property, and additional flows, budget, public procurement and banks, then we need not be afraid of the future. But please, let us do something in this government, not every single thing at all! Give us time to see how this thing ends. I think we're on the right track and things are going to turn up very quickly. If we are only partially successful at all five points, our budget can be positive and we can spend a couple hundred million more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Roman Zveglič, Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u192	Dear Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! The position of the Slovenian People's Party until the banks are rehabilitated is already known. We have discussed this for hours, and once again I will make the point of this conflict quite simple. We have two basic concepts, both in use in many countries. The opposition and the National Council propose to continue the financial injections to individual banks, i.e. direct recapitalisation solutions. The second concept, coalition, is broader. In some parts it also provides for recapitalisation, to a lesser extent, while also allowing certain claims to be transferred from banks to a specific company. Let us now let it be only a legislative basis for implementation, while some would like to see the whole implementing act in law, perhaps even individual claims. In the Slovenian People's Party we see a significant difference between these two ways. At the first, he throws hundreds of millions into the bank pit, even billions, and then what? Raise your hands to see what happens, there will be no one responsible, of course, if he doesn't want to be. Let's say who will answer if we make another 2 billion non-influenced tax money through NLB, NKBM and Abanko – politicians, directors, maybe we, individual Members? We're having a little fun, aren't we? Another fundamental difference is the resolution of banks through the institution of a bad bank or through recapitalisations, as proposed by the Social Democrats and the State Council. Our proposal foresees that the balance sheet should be cleaned as quickly as possible. Therefore, banks are expected to start credit activity as quickly as possible, risk assessment of lending. They should focus on the business of companies interested in credit rather than dealing with the past. That's the essential difference. Only through the recapitalisation of banks remains a risk that the deposit will be assessed too low, banks will clean themselves. We do not even have the assurance that they will be successful in solving these problems themselves, and worse still, there is a serious possibility that they will write off these bad loans for many years. What's the danger? Stagation? I really want to know if we still have a few years left to get banks, under the terms of the term, to come together on their own. Perhaps some of you who are involved are well aware of the case of Japan in the 1990s, when virtually even a decade has not started the economy. You also know that there was a problem of underestimating problems in the banking sector. The National Council or the signatories to the veto requirement, some of which are obviously economic experts, and by chance they are still at the head of the leadership of some trade unions, state that the purpose of the law is not to rehabilitate banks to solve the economy, but rather to buy up banks' assets and sell businesses. I advise the State Council to take another look at what is enshrined in the law, including the obligations of the remaining bank owners, and the standards for assessing claims. Various fantastic scenarios about the evil intentions of this coalition in the future are a place somewhere else. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will once again support the law. It is a key solution for the current banking system and an essential point on which it depends whether someone else in Europe takes us seriously or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Plevčak on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. All in attendance have a nice greeting! With regard to the content of the law that we have at the request of the Council of State back on our tables, the debate has been held virtually since July of this year. At that time, a special working group was formed, consisting of members of the coalition as well as the opposition and experts seconded by parliamentary parties. The decision to form such a working group was essentially necessary in relation to matter. The amount of these poor claims, which is virtually unimaginable, can almost be compared to the amount of revenue in the budget. Finally, it is inconceivable that bankers and supervisory authorities have allowed bad claims to escalate to unacceptable amounts. This Gordija knot has thus finally had to be cut off and stopped by the bad business of Slovenian banks with the preparation of an appropriate legislative solution. One option is to adopt this law. In the DeSUS Group, we do not deny that this is the one and only model of recovery, by no means, but given the fact that recovery is necessary, that we already have water running down our throats, we need to take action as soon as possible. It would be even better if we were accepted yesterday or the day before. The Council of State expresses its fear that the law places the burden of past bad decisions on taxpayers, that the proposed model of bank rescue from the point of view of taxpayers is the most expensive and that there will be serious damage to state property. As explained earlier, action must be taken now. Unless solutions are adopted, there will certainly be a continuation of the controversial business practice that has brought us where we are. Nor do the reasons for the adoption of the veto, in terms of the constitutional concerns of this law, hold back in any way. This is also denied by the Law-Legal Service itself in its opinion. To solve this problem, we are left with only two real solutions, one with public debt, and the other with external aid, which some are drowning in with incomprehensible and irrational excuses. If we already have to resolve bad investments by means of taxpayers, it would be fair and politically appropriate to save bad investments outside banks in a suitable state institution for this. Such a solution is rejected by the opposition. It is likely that because she had scissors and linen in her hands during her previous term, she did not want to do so or perhaps she could not solve it in a different way than with recapitalisation. Secondly, it is a little more difficult to understand why he does not want to participate actively in such an important issue as bank resolution and the economy. We would expect much more positive and well-intentioned political will for the well-being of the country. And we also believe that perhaps a 100% solution is not only visible but to take steps forward and to start this train, which is already very late, in the right direction. In the DeSUS Group, we have already identified that the law brings better solutions than merely recapitalisation of banks. We remain in this decision today, and the law will also be supported by us.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u195	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, the decision on the law will be made in thirty minutes in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item, and I also interrupt the 7th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 17.05. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u196	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving to a vote on the proposals for decisions, so please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade Reserves. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. The legislature and the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted by the working body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act following the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. In the second reading, no amendments were tabled to the amended draft law and we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. The Legal and Legal Service and the Government have not informed me of any inconsistencies. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Public Finance Balance. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a bill amending the Public Finance Balance Act is suitable for further consideration. Before we vote, there is probably an explanation for the vote. Who wants a word on behalf of the Group of Members? I'm opening the application.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Puksič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we will not support the proposal to conclude that this law is a suitable basis for further consideration. We have said a lot today in our debates. But once again, let me repeat a few key points. Zuif was created by the crisis caused by the previous government, which lasted only three years. Of course, Zujf has intervened in all areas, including in this area of pensions, but it is significantly different from some of the former government's interventions when 15,000 citizens and citizens were deprived of these state pensions, which were legally theirs. Zyf took or took pensions of up to EUR 777 and reduced them by EUR 100 and those who had more than EUR 450, 350. These are pensions, which are on some list of special pensions, including some over-average pensions, under some laws that were then in force with, I will say, very wide open hands, but this government is also responsible for those 340,000 citizens and citizens who have pensions below 600 euros. And under no circumstances can we agree that these pensions and their incomes will also be reduced. In the Slovenian party, we mentioned the problem, which was most frequently mentioned today, it is the participants in the national liberation fight, 7 000 500 of them, mentioned this, or said that according to the data we have, these are also the pensioners of the 1939 year, who were 2 years of age at the beginning of the war and 4 years of the end of the war. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the law that comes into consideration and is already in the National Assembly, that is, those who have paid in other republics.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u199	Thank you very much. In Positive Slovenia you have applied three. Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš on behalf of the parliamentary group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Chairman. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we will absolutely support the amendment of the law, which we have tabled in co-signature with SD. Why? Because we say that it is fair because it corrects the injustices caused by more than 26,000 pensioners with the Government's Balance of Public Finance Act. And that is what you, your fellow Members, have found in the debate today, practically in all the parliamentary groups. And last but not least, those of you who pleaded that you would, despite telling the public today or yesterday, how you would support the proposal for a new law of the opposition. Here, of course, I appeal once again to the President of the National Assembly and to his moral principled attitude so that you do not swallow this word. Despite the fact that he did come into the parliamentary procedure today with a government proposal for a law. You will be able to assess for yourself how serious the government is in the drafting of the law and how serious the opposition, whose law is prepared with greater zeal and greater responsibility. When you refer to how good the government proposal is, let me try to sum up their explanations on two sides. According to STIZ data, among pensioners who are reduced in accordance with Article 143 of the Zujfa Pensions, a large proportion of those who have spent part of their working life in the former SFRJ. And they continue in the first paragraph. Second paragraph, repeat, copy-paste: "According to the ZPIZ data, among pensioners who are reduced in accordance with Article 143 of Zujfa's pension, a large proportion of those who have spent part of their working life in the former SFRJ..." And I'm going to the next page, you won't believe it, the third time copy-paste, the same paragraph, the same text: "According to PPIZ data, among the pensioners who, in accordance with Article 143 of Zujfa's pension, fall, a large proportion of those who have spent part of their working life in the former SFRJ" and so on. Dear colleagues, tell me, who is making fun of the citizens and citizens of our country? The government's proposal for a law is not serious, but it has shriveled even though the president of the National Assembly is smiling. President, we offered you a compromise. Following the procedure, our proposal for a law could also be aligned with your proposals. If your intention were serious, then I believe you would support today's first reading of our proposal for a law that has already been tabled in a parliamentary procedure that could eliminate the injustices you caused when you put pressure on the "yes" button to support the government's proposal for a Public Finance Balance Act. One more thing. The government proposal for a law introduces new discrimination in the area of pensions, and this is unfair and unfair. Once again, in the Group of Positive Slovenia, we will absolutely support our proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u201	Thank you very much. On behalf of the National Gazette, Dr. Gregor Virant will give an explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u202	Thank you. We will not support the proposal in the Citizens' List for the following reasons. Firstly, because this proposal creates a 60 to 80 million hole in the state budget and because we are firmly committed to the balance of public finances in the National Gazette. So we cannot go too long by spending billions or two billion more each year than the budget does. In Article 143, we have detected certain injustices; we advocate that saving is fair, even, proportionate. Article 143 of the Zujf does not in some respects. That's what we warned you about in July. We regret little that we had to wait until today for a government proposal, so we have also announced the possibility that we might support the opposition's proposal – even if we did not have a government proposal on the table today. But we got a government proposal today. The government proposal allows us to close the problem at the November session. Even if we supported the opposition proposal today, it would be discussed in a second reading at second reading in November. So, we're on the same clock, that's what we need to make clear right now. Not a second, not a day late. We have a government proposal to consider in November. This government proposal is a good starting point, it solves the very important problem of those insurers who paid contributions to the retired cash republic of the former SFRJ. These should not be discriminated against under any circumstances compared to those who paid in Slovenia, because they also worked, paid, and there is no difference. But the problem is also with some others. You've been alerting us to these problems today. You're right about a lot of things, and until the second reading, it's time to find some other categories of solutions. Let's be constructive, let's agree on some option that won't on the one hand be radical and irresponsible to public finances, we can't create an 80-million-dollar hole, we can't. On the other hand, I also appeal to my coalition colleagues to find a solution for cases, but I will give the most radical, some prisoner in the concentration camp, who, at his age of five decades, has lost EUR 933 200 of his pension today. That's not fair. Let us sit together, find a solution that will be acceptable, which will be publicly sustainable and fair at the same time.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u204	When you are a coalition Member, you must act responsibly and in this light you must also make unpleasant decisions. The ones you've ever been in the coalition, you know that. And it is our responsibility to provide sustainable public finances in one way or another, because only sustainable public finances will continue to provide pensions, wages and the like. The proposal before us is trying to make an excessive intervention in the current public finances, which is why we will not support it in Novi Slovenija. Of course, we are open to all further discussions on how to make this law more just. I've already said today that this is a question that we have to revolve around. But we have two choices. In the first round, the government decided to reduce some of the budget allowances to those who may have an average pension. However, there is also the possibility that some others are talking about taking the same away from all pensioners. These are options that need to be considered, and I will most likely talk about these things. To conclude, I would only say this because today this has all appeared too often and my debate has also been abused, and I believe that even some Members have not done it maliciously. When I exposed individuals when I exposed athletes, culturers, former politicians, mothers, veterans, I did not do this in order to document their pensions in any way, I hope that Mr. Brulc heard me, I did not do this to tell them anything, but I did it solely because I wanted to prove to them on specific occasions that Zuyf covered very different individuals from all segments and from all social groups and that it was precisely because of this Zuyfu that we couldn't read any ideological note and that it was a law that we were trying to make the beginning and the end together, and that's all. And given that Zujf's correction by the government is in the process, if we all make certain efforts, I believe we will find common solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Members of the Social Democrats, we have tabled this law in cooperation with our colleagues from Positive Slovenia because of the fact that of all the measures that you have imposed in the mega-scraper called ZUJF, this article has been best placed in the luft. Why is that? Because in a selective, discriminatory way, without adequate legal explanations, it causes a violation of the Constitution. This is not just our invention, but the opinion of the most visible constitutional lawyers who have made it so. Therefore, respect for the rule of law and the Constitution is a fundamental reason for making this change. And the second reason is the way you went after this group of pensioners. You say we all have to pay our price. Yes, because they also paid it because they are pensioners, because they also have their pensions frozen. But no, that wasn't enough! You had to reduce their pensions as well as any other target group in Slovenia, up to 25%. Discriminatoryly to the end, unjustifiably and invoking public finances and their sustainability here simply as an argument, because you have affected five groups of pensioners, their revenues represent only 1% of the expenditure available to PPIZ. The second thing you say is, "Yeah, we made a new law to fix it." I'm asking you nicely, who's making a fool out of someone?? You're going on with the unconstitutionality. You point out one category that "kobayagi" paid contributions, but forget again a whole bunch of others, such as military insurers, who also paid contributions. And I say, forget those who, because of the special merit of this nation, have gained rights because of the injustices that have been done to them. No, your marriage, I'm telling you, it doesn't save anything that saves our marriage. And about the financials. You're saying abstinence. We have offered you a compromise to give up the annual allowance. This would save half of our resources right away, and we could find a solution. But no, because it's just a coalition game, a show of muscles inside the coalition, who's gonna be who. Let's stop! Who's painting who?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u207	This was an explanation for the vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Does anyone want to explain their voice individually? I'll open the application. Mag. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u208	Mr President, let's at least clear up the financial implications. You say between 60 and 80 million. When you're the primary Zuif, is that when you took this away, you know what the financial consequences were? 25 million. Are you wrong then or are you wrong today? Did you cheat at the time or are you deceiving today? Tell me! You can't talk about the same thing three times. 25 to 80. That's the first thing. Second thing. The important thing is that the law is yours. That's what we learned today, and you're going to fix it, not ours. And just because he's opposition, he's not good enough to fix himself. Mr President, you have shown this well and told all our citizens and citizens. And one more thing, Mr. Virant, and all your fellow citizens' lists, you've changed your mind again. You've changed your mind again, and apparently that's your point of view. Ideological divisions, which certainly with Zujf, which are valid, you have done, and you have also admitted this, and unfortunately with the government proposal they remain. These ideological divisions remain. And, of course, I will – ours – support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u209	Mag. Stanko Stepichnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u210	Thank you so much for saying that. I will also support this law because I believe in the rule of law. Today, many principles have been mentioned. Lawyers are extremely domestic in this, and the rest of us in other activities don't know that many principles. But it still bothered me. You were looking for an excuse to fix these 26,000 pensions, and you chose a principle that was wrong and inappropriate. We cannot agree in a democratic legal country that only pensions based on contributions paid are eligible. This principle is logical, but too narrow. We are in the country, adopting and adopting laws that give, guaranteeing certain rights to citizens, citizens and legal persons and others. The principle to be chosen is that there are different pensions based on legal rights, including pensions for which contributions have been registered by way of payment. If they had taken this principle and pursued economic objectives, they would have reduced pensions not selectively, but to all who have pensions higher than EUR 600. For the pension lady at the annual level about 5 billion, 3.5 out of contributions, 1.5 billion out of the budget. If, by 0.5% to all who have higher pensions than EUR 600, they had reduced their pensions, they would have achieved this 27 million. But if you want 67 million, that means 2.6% lower pensions, which are higher than 600 euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u211	Mr. Matjaz Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u212	Thank you very much. I'll support the law. Today, however, I have been very interested in monitoring how you and the party DeSUS will implement the manoeuvre so that you will not support our law. You have succeeded in writing a disability law in 12 minutes, which has now enacted ideology, because now you will be 8 000 privileged, again some, pensioners will be granted this pension, Spanish war fighters, national liberation fights, interns, refugees, pensioners under the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance for Workers, the police and so on you will not correct the injustice. Now the foundation for ideology has opened. I've been waiting for you to do this. You've done so that the government has adopted this law and I must say that I will not support it. But when you talk so easily about those 70, 80 million, Alenka said so. The whole law or this 143rd article spoke of 25 million, now you have reduced it by 8 million. If we were to cut another 15 million, I think we'd fix everyone's injustices. They could also make a pensioner and reduce all of these pensioners by 7.8%, for example, and these pensioners would probably agree. But because you don't know it and you don't want it, you're opening an ideology. Where is our DeSUS – a pension fighter?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u213	Mr. Mirko Brulc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u214	Your Honor! Of course, I will vote in favour of the proposed law, because the law you now have and was quickly written is only an alibi for small coalition partners to vote against our law, and this is such a low-level play. Again, you do not want to hear anything about the correction of the injustices to participants in the national liberation fight, the campers, the participants in the independent war, the police and others. For the last time, why are you using the name Mir Cerar, Svetlana Makarovich? Yeah, it's sloppy. On TV, it was said that if Miro Cerar lost a little pension, there would be no harm. That's how it was. These are the people who have made a sound that holds culture, sport, Olympics, etc. What did you do to these people? Be grateful to them that we have them and honor them to the end as long as they are. I will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u215	Mrs. Janja Klasinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u216	I will also vote in favour of this law in order to end the unconstitutional situation, in order to eliminate the injustices that occur to 26 000 pensioners in this country, in order to equalize the rights of all pensioners in this country and because we in Positive Slovenia and in Social Democrats must fight for the rights of those who have so-called their party in Parliament and work against them. I am concerned that today you have chosen the parliamentary procedure and the opportunity of this Parliament to wash its face in front of the general public so that this will not stop. It's clearly a practice. Let's let the constitution say something, throw it away. The constitutional charter of this country — what does that mean? This is a party for this coalition, and you're very state-favouring, and we're against this country. You know, people will soon, the 20% who support you, create their own image of who's working against them. The only problem is that you're getting your shit together and getting on the weakest, while you're allowing those who have the most in this country to have more.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u217	Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u218	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I will vote in favour of our law. We are trying to partially correct the law that led Slovenia into the path of recession, so that, unlike the previous year, when 0.6% of economic growth was likely to be negative this year, 2.3% or 5%. You started this marriage. I have to say that I don't believe you're trying to cheat when you're talking about $25 million a few months ago, but now about 75 million, I just think you're incompetent. You said the truth is usually in the middle of something, so we can say that perhaps your calculation somewhere in the middle is 50 million euros. Of course, I'm afraid when I listen to this, because if you make such major mistakes, which are multiples, in such a marriage, you understand that I am mortally afraid of what mistakes you have just made in the Bank Recovery Act or in the Slovenian Holding Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u219	Mr. Lucky Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u220	I'll vote for this law myself. In fact, I will vote against the law tabled by the government. So this law that we have received today is really a joke at the expense of the National Assembly, and in some ways the assessment that the government is giving us, what we are worth in their eyes, and I am protesting it. That is not how it works, Members of Parliament and Members. Of course, it is dangerous when some say — we took away those who have more. Retirement, of course. And some say - what should we all do the same? I think we should take those who are truly guilty of this situation and who say they are rich. Those should be taken. Not those who already had the right and got it. We take those who get the right, the decision, and that's not right. Therefore, it would be good for us to step together in some way and find a key, including residents and residents, in what way we will bridge this situation. Until when, how long is this going to take? Not the way it is today when we do new injustices. What about those who retired after 1992 and were retired because of various laws and coercion? What's going to happen to those? It's not right for new injustices to be done. It's the right thing to do. It's the right thing to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u221	Mr. Branko Ficko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u222	Why would I support the novel? Because he eliminates injustices to those whom he has appointed to be privileged by John Janša’s central committee. And who are you, these 26,000 exceptions? These are all those who had and had to do anything with a five-legged star and an ex-South. This purpose and objective continued later in the Central Committee with decisions on martial arts celebrations, the naming of barracks and so on. And that's nothing more than an ideological distinction for me. If the members of this Chamber cannot change or are not allowed to change because of the decisions of the CK, I would like to believe that those who have rejected ideological differences in the coalition contract, especially colleagues in the Civil Gazette and DeSUS, will decide as you think it is right and not as the CK has decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u223	Mr. Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u224	Thank you very much. I am among the signatories to the bill and, of course, I will support it. I will support it in particular because this 143rd article imposes too many cowardly eggs, some of which you are trying to eliminate, but a lot of them are left. Today's amendment to this 143rd article, which we have received from the Government, has, in fact, definitively exposed itself to this article as an ideological account of the heirs of cooperation with the Red Star. It's not about anything else! Now you've put the 8 grand out, and now it's just the ones that are somehow connected to it. I can't accept this, because it's not just discriminatory, it's also actually anti-constitutional. I've told you before that these things were guaranteed by a constitutional charter or constitutional law, but you don't want to hear it. An account with a population of 83 and up to 90 years, however, is at least what I think is low, because these people can no longer improve their standard of work or how to help themselves. This is very sad for a country that is considered democratic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u225	Mr. Roman Jakich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u226	Thank you for your word. The English would call it "face-saving surgery," which means "solution of a pretty face." Nice face is being saved in this case by DeSUS and the National Gazette, and I hope not by any family conundrum. I'm really sick of hearing those who are against the law, and that's justified by the economic logic of saving, and they're using some sort of intimidation logic. They're scaring people how we're going to make an 80-million-dollar hole with this change of law. Many times today have been said here, now tell me whether you lied when you proposed this law that did these wrongs, or are you lying today. Only one is true: whether it is 25 million or 80 million. And I hope we can clear this up. While we are talking about an 80 million hole, Mr. Hojc, Minister of New Slovenia, allows himself to talk about getting thin ones. And that's why I'm sick! When you're trying to cut 26 thousand 300 people's pension to 25%, at the same time, we're going to get thin ones. Please! Where's the savings? Where's the face you talked about earlier? See, 240 users of outstanding pensions will be affected, Iva Daneua, Mira Cerarje, Svetlana Makarovič. What have they done to you in your life? You listed 330 forcibly mobilized, but most of you are hurt by 7 000 500 NOB participants, Spanish wars, national heroes, partisan monuments. And for 8,000 people, you're saving the story with January 1st! Where are you now with a quick procedure? Where are you, Mr. Virant? Six pensions of 200 euros will be taken away from some by the time the government law enters into force, which you have given us today as a crumb on the table. Of course I'll support the law that's in the process.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u227	Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u228	Thank you very much. I will support this marriage because today we have witnessed again what has already happened several times. So first of all, I'm going to congratulate the SDS on this side because you successfully "fucked" this page, which is called DesSUS or the National Sheet. But in fact, I have to say, "fuck" feels like me, President. It looks like they're getting you with your pants down, and you believe it, and you're sure you're alone all the time. Well, you didn't. In fact, look, President, what really hurt me is that you swore twice or three times for the world that things would change in September. But they didn't. And I'd like to know how you're going to react to this new proposal, given that it not only creaked up, but it's an addition to the scribble. And what's saddest is that we only deepen our injustices. Who will pay the difference from 1 January to back, what has already been taken from them? That's not gonna happen. And what is new to all that has happened today is that I have come to realize once again that some have only a name, not content. I'm really disappointed that the pensioner's party is voting against the pensioners, which is the worst thing that can happen to me. But what's important about the whole thing is that it's also part of democracy, but I don't like that kind of democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u229	Thank you. Can we vote on the proposal for a decision? There are still explanations for the voice. I'm opening another round of reports. Mrs. Romana Tomc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u230	Thank you so much for saying that. In defense of this bill, many gallbladder words, many criticisms and, above all, many perceptions were made today at the expense of ideology. I strongly reject these findings. The Public Finance Balance Act was adopted primarily with a view to balancing public finances, as the name itself says. Of course, this was a demanding, extensive law, and so was its acceptance. I am convinced that these financial effects achieved by this law could be achieved in a much easier way. In which of the tax laws can you change only one article and you will get enormous financial effects. With exceptional efforts, however, the government wanted to present solutions that would least affect those who are the weakest in our society. Pensioners who receive work pensions have been affected twice — by the fact that pensions are not aligned and by the reduction of the annual allowance. Those who receive so - called extraordinary pensions have been affected, if that is what we call it, by making their pensions negatively aligned. As we have found that this law has also had some effects that we did not want to see to them, the government has committed itself to bringing into Parliament a new law that will correct these wrongs. And so, I hope, we will soon have a government law before us, so I cannot support this proposal, which is here today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u231	Mr. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u232	The government's proposal doesn't solve anything. He saves a small group of insurers who have also been wronged. Mr President, does not solve the issue of national liberation, does not rescue the participants of the Spanish civil war, national heroes and partisans 41, does not solve the issue of interns, refugees, labourers, retired under the law on the pension rights of former military insurers, workers of internal affairs bodies and institutions for the abolition of the sentence of imprisonment, beneficiaries of the pension to take into account the period of active military service in the former Yugoslav People's Army, who were there to defend the Slovenian home, beneficiaries of a higher amount under the law on the correction of wrongs, pensioners who have retired because they have been encouraged by this country and another government, which was not a left-wing government, forcibly mobilised and culturers, athletes who have done much of their efforts to make this country a successful state. All these categories of people don't solve the government's proposal for a law. I will vote in favour of the bill, as proposed by the opposition, and I call with all my heart also on those who are in the summer and are still talking today about the need to correct these injustices. Today is an opportunity, and perhaps this opportunity will never come back.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u233	Mr. Franz Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u234	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I won't support the proposal. Not because of what I'm about to say first, it's because of the rhetoric used by colleagues on the left and right sides. But I don't mean the political definition. Mostly because of that. Even though I won't use the rhetoric you're using. In many cases, she's very strange and rude. We're not doing any maneuvers in DeSus. We're not talking about maneuvers. We're not soldiers and we're not gonna work maneuvers. That's what I'm telling you, and I'm answering what you just said. Knock on our consciences, gentlemen and lady, you don't have to. Knock on your conscience, opportunity and opportunity you have thus had some on this side and thus some on this side. We were there, too, but when we saw that we didn't have a solution, we left because we assessed, found that it simply didn't work out with you. Because you kind of forced us into this. And a message to those who talk about early elections. We've had them once before. We tried. Yeah, do you have an alternative? Come with her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u235	Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u236	Thank you for your word. I will be happy to support this novel because I believe that there is no reason, and Zujf gives no reason to violate human rights, gives no reason to violate the rule of law, gives no reason to violate the Constitution. That's why I'm going to support this novel. And I will be even more supportive now that we have received the government proposal for this law on the table. It is by chance not adequate to our proposal, it is still discriminatory and still biased. It doesn't save what we stand for. Otherwise, colleagues and colleagues, why else should we be upset, because we see that this voting machine will do its job and today you will probably vote as ordered. However, whenever you come to the rule of law, whenever you violate our country's constitution, look at your rating, look at the government's support and look at the rating of your customers. But you're doing wrong to citizens and citizens. They are aware of this and, on the contrary, give you back this support and their affection. I will support this proposal for a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u237	Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u238	President, thank you. I will not vote for ours, not yours. I will vote in favour of a just law, for a just amendment of the law that we have tabled in Positive Slovenia and in the SD party, in order to correct the injustices that you brought into our place, which you voted in favour of when we voted on the Public Finance Balance Act. And this marriage has not balanced anything yet. This law should be named or renamed "the burden law", "the burden of public finances". The word "balance" means to balance the income and expenditure side. What have you done to start the economy? The stability and sustainability of public finances cannot be guaranteed without a healthy economy. You've allowed the economy to literally die. And what Mr DeSus, Mr Jurša, is speaking to me today, literally, is an expression, and that is the word that I am working with and working with such Members who are so clever. You promised [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u239	A little more respect for each other, Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic. Nobody insults you like that, and you won't hurt anyone else.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u240	I'm sorry. In the elections you promised and offered voters and voters "vote for us, vote for DesSUS because we represent you". You forgot how you got into Parliament today. Today you forgot who allowed you to be here. Ladies and gentlemen, you can be ashamed of yourself, and on the third.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u241	It was an insulted debate. Please don't make it happen again. Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor. Procedural, Mr. Jursha? No, you don't have a replica. Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u242	Your Honor! I have already explained today why this law, in such a procedure, in such a form and with such content should not be adopted at all and why it casts a black mark on the work of this national assembly. The Constitutional Court will now deal with the assessment of his constitutionality. When weighing constitutional goods, the constitutional principle of the protection of trust in law will, on the one hand, be of particular importance, whether the changes in the area in question have been relatively predictable and are therefore affected by the amendment, i.e. by a quarter reduction in the pension, can continue to count and what is the weight of the change and the importance of the existing legal situation for beneficiaries on the one hand and, on the other hand, the public interest, which justifies a different regime from the existing one. Try to decide for yourself what will or should be decided by the Constitutional Court. The worst thing about this law is that, because of discriminatory and arbitrary treatment of a certain part of pensioners, and also after the adoption of the law now proposed by the Government, 25 thousand 500 remain, deeper and new creating ideological differences between people. And that's what's unacceptable. I will therefore vote in favour of the bill proposed by the Social Democrats and the Positive Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u243	Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! It is clear that I will vote against the proposed decision or against the law, with one satisfaction or joy. For the first time, because the opposition failed to attempt to break down the coalition. This must have been one of the important purposes of this bill. Secondly, it is with pleasure that more and more citizens and citizens understand the situation in which the country is situated and that more and more citizens and citizens know who has put us in this financial situation. That it was so-called as the media wrote, the left three KGB, which is today somehow redesigned and has the title of the opposition. And the third reason for our joy is that we really did it with the government proposal and with the government's law to balance public finances or with coalitions is because we really did it in a wise way because we divided the burdens and somehow stuck to the grain of cake, the stone of the palace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u245	Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u246	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. A respected choir! I am very sorry that the coalition will reject the opposition's law today, and on the other hand, I am only partly pleased that you have partially overlooked and excluded one category of pensioners in the coalition this time. About six months ago, only my colleague Chehovin and I spoke on this subject. At first, it was entirely under the false impression of consent with the social partners and the impreciseness of this mega law. Even President DeSUS said in the spring that only those pensions that were higher than EUR 1,000 450 were limited in this law, so he did not know what the coalition was adopting, I am sure that by November we will be able to amend the law by bringing the opposition's proposal closer to being cleared of discrimination and ideological rematch. As I say, I will vote in favour of the proposal of the Social Democrats and the Positive Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u247	Mrs. Renata Brunskole, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u248	Thank you very much, very good-bye. I'll support the proposal for a change of law. The law now in force is the law of many injustices and the separation of people, far from reason. The saddest part is that some colleagues and colleagues in the debate advocate pensioners, retired athletes, artists, fighters, that the media think and before TV screens pensioners are with them, but – what happens? It happens that when there's a vote, that's not what happens. The voting coalition is something more important, far away from people and far from the heart. The separation of people continues, despite the legal state of democracy, in the temple of democracy, the anti-constitution, discrimination and denial of history, and everything related to the commitment to unity, consciousness, courage, adorned freedom and also to the connection of the Slovenian nation, which until 1945, continued to bear the red star. Obviously, dear colleagues and colleagues, you don't want to make amends, just in some way, where you feel that you can, but anything that is possibly connected to something that is ideologically far from you, you don't agree with this. I think it would be right for many of you to consider the importance of constitutionality and of unconstitutional conduct in the temple of democracy and to improve in this direction in the National Assembly. I will, of course, support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u249	Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u250	Thank you for your word. However, if we are to vote on whether the law is suitable for further consideration or not, it should be pointed out that this law, which we have tabled by Members and Members in the parliamentary procedure, is significantly more suitable for further consideration than the law tabled by the Government today. This needs to be stressed, because our law really also solves the discriminatory and disproportionate burden of 28 000 people who are supposed to bear greater burdens due to the crisis in Slovenia than the government proposes. The government says that 8,000 people will try to solve, and that 20,000 will still remain those who have to bear the greater burden of this economic crisis than they are. It is a practically greater injustice, for an even smaller group of people will bear an even greater burden. This is like the entire national assembly, 88 of us, being burdened by our two members of minorities, and they would say that they are the most responsible for the situation in Slovenia. And always and whenever we can vote them out. And that's what you do. It would be significantly more correct if everyone in the National Assembly today supported this law and there was no sense that anyone causing a division in the coalition could then, of course, regulate exactly all categories, also examine the financial consequences and come to a solution that eliminates unconstitutionality, discrimination and gross injustice to any individual who is burdened disproportionately with 20 percent or more of the burden compared to other pensioners in Slovenia. This law is significantly more appropriate than the government for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u251	These were explanations for the voice. Another round. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for noticing me. I am taking my opposition position seriously, so I will support the proposed law, and I will consider not actually supporting the basic law for the same reason that I will now support it. In fact, Zujf's legal dispute, when we solved 39 laws in one law and hid many things that had nothing to do with saving, avoided agreements with the social partners, with regard to norms and standards, and even when there was a dilemma as to how to resolve the problem in one article, which was highly discriminatory, you could not help but find that it was only normal for all pensioners to share the fate of all, but to give up judging who of the other pensioners should contribute more than others. I'm thinking about that $26,000 and something. There's no criteria. There's no reason. And what's behind it has actually shown today's government proposal, which now saves only one group – 8 thousand out of 26 thousand and something else. In doing so, it anticipates that, for example, you will adopt a law that does not take into account Annex E to the applicable law on the ratification of the Succession Agreement, the Basic Constitutional Charter and much more. I can't understand how the coalition hopes to beat the rule of law like that. He warned that something illegal, that it was not in conformity with the Constitution, was no longer taking it seriously. Probably because it's been so long that you've become insensitive.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u253	Of course I've noticed you, colleague Potrat, how could you not. But I'm sorry I didn't notice your name on the screen. Anybody else want to explain their voice? There's still some interest, and I'm opening another round of applications. Mr. Roberto Battelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u254	Thank you for your word. I did not intend to come forward at the outset, but I will not support this proposal, although I fully agree with the good part of its content. However, I would also like to say the following to the government or, above all, to the government. In the bill to be proposed, one basic rule of proportionality should be taken into account, which will nevertheless mean a few fewer pensions for all pensioners. Reform of the pension system is necessary. The next generation will have stricter rules; further work will have to be done in order to be proportionate to all the other current pensioners, who are actually paying those who are currently employed, as we know. So we'll have stricter rules. For example, instead of 18 years, it will be 24 or more of the most advantageous for the base. Given that we are probably all aware that we cannot spend as much as we produce, then one system that would still proportionally divide this burden into all categories of pensioners would be fairer and probably even [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u255	Mr. Joseph Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u256	Thank you very much. I'm going to support the law, because once I support the law, I'm going to vote for the people. For those of us who have done their work, their self - sacrificing work, and their relationship, they have earned this pension that they should receive, and we take it from them. We are Members of the various groups of Members here, but we are here for the people to assure them of what they are doing in the Constitution. And I cannot imagine that we are here Members who deny them what the Constitution has written to them and what it allows them to do. I'm sad, I'm really sad when I'm listening here to the excuses and misrepresentations of members of the coalition. Let's go through these guidelines that they give you from the top and vote for the people. You won't regret it, because you won't do anything wrong with it. You can only give people back hope and faith in the rule of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u257	Mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u258	I spoke mainly about the substantive reasons why I would not support this opposition proposal in the view of the Group. Now there may also be some political reason for nanism. I understand that this proposal of the opposition has been tabled with the sole purpose of allowing the opposition to use five, six hours of debate to strike in one way or another politically after the coalition, because it is worth it for them to collect political points. That this strengthens my conviction is also the debate of my colleague Brulco, because I once again explained to him how and how I used the names, but he again politicised and used names in some completely different context. This simply does not seem fair to me, and it just seems to me that this political note of this proposal is getting stronger. And just one last thought. All those opposition Members who were coalition Members in the previous term are among them the three members of Positive Slovenia, who were in the previous coalition mandate, so that I will be perfectly precise so that I will not condemn them in a flat-rate manner. But remember one law that your coalition passed that took state pensions that were 200 euros high, the poorest of wives and husbands. Neither did these pensions have a basis in paid contributions. Ask yourself why you don't fight as hard for these people as you do for everyone else.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u259	Mag. Ivan Vogrin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u260	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today's debate shows that unfortunately the cultural capacity of cooperation is lagging behind the intellectual capacity of cooperation, due to the institutional conflict between the coalition and the opposition. Too many, I think, are competitions, underestimation, including ridicule, and other populism and the acquisition of political points at the expense of a few minutes of fame, but no cooperation and compromise. I believe that such conduct should teach us not to bring good solutions, and we, our citizens, a poor country and a lack of confidence in the institutions of the system, are ultimately victims. Most of this was quoted by Dr Marko Pavlih when he spoke in one of the consultations on Slovenian Parliamentarianism. Of course, I strongly agree with this, and I think it would be good to seek compromise solutions that have been adopted by a large consensus in order to carry out more than one mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u261	That was the explanation for the vote, but we didn't hear you vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u262	Excuse me, Mr. President. I will support the opposition's proposal, because it seems to me that it does bring what we are all talking about. And there's another reason. You know, such solutions brought from one moment to the next, when everyone warns us that there is no good in the quick and urgent process, so I feel that the opposition's proposal is good and I will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u263	Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u264	Thank you so much for saying that. Here we are about a third of the Members we have come from the previous term of office in this mandate. At that time, the Pahor government proposed a package of social legislation that radically intervened in the rights acquired. In that previous term, Pahor's government abolished state pensions, and some 17,000 state pensions were abolished. This pension amounted to EUR 189, and this pension was largely granted to farmers, elderly farmers who worked their entire lives on the farm, and for most of these people it was the only financial source, the financial compensation given them by the state. There was no debate at the time, my fellow Members, about the violation of the Constitution, legality, human rights, the rule of law, legal security, social security and similar matters. Not a single debate, look at your magnetograms, you haven't done anything on this topic. Since you're doing this, I'm going to say, double, I can't support this proposal of yours and I won't support it. Apparently, these elderly farmers who worked their entire lives on their farm were not Spanish fighters. For Spanish fighters to take care of Spain, we don't have to pay them for another 70 years after the Spanish war.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u265	I'm opening another round of explanations for my voice. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u266	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What I've been listening to today is I really need to say that you must have a good stomach and a good taste to listen to what we had to hear today in the law proposed by the opposition parties. I must say that the Slovenian Government has proposed solutions that are urgently needed at this time. She was looking for compromises, and I think she has sought the best compromise that can be found in this given situation, and she has also proposed such solutions. The shortcomings have also been identified and those shortcomings the government is trying to correct by its proposal for a law that it has sent to Parliament, and also by correcting those injustices that have been committed. It is amazing, however, that there is one thing that we do not all understand here in this House, and that is who is privileged in this society. Whether it is those pensioners who have worked for 40 and more years and who today receive 400, 500, 600 and 700 Euros of pension, whether those who receive a thousand, 100, 200, 300, 400, 500 Euros of pension are privileged in this society. And those who have worked for 40 years and over are those who have paid into the pension fund so that today the privileged pensioners can have a thousand 100, a thousand 200, a thousand 300, a thousand 400 and so on pensions. And this group that advocates this group of pensioners, when we are looking for solutions to bring this Slovenia out of this difficult situation, I think that such opposition in this country is the opposition that is damaging this country, which is working against the interests of this country, and it is unacceptable that today we have to listen to what we have been listening to. And the poor Slovenian people, my poor people, that they must watch such a farce, spend money on such nonsense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u267	Mrs. Tamara Vont, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u268	Thank you very much. We don't need five to six hours to hit the coalition to get political points, we've got too many. We can just sit there and listen to these points fall on that side. Or as in some human wisdom, which is not from our places, they say, "We sit and watch the bodies passing by." In short, this one was gone, no offense. Totally. Second thing. It's very good that the government has set up a delete committee, I hear, because you're going to have a lot of work to do. Once you have settled the deletion, you know, from what year, you will be dealing with a new group of 26 000, a new special deletion, for which the European Court of Human Rights will judge as well as those first. But then you won't be in power anymore, that'll be paid by some others. Of course we all do, but who will be in the government then, but it's hard to say, but you certainly won't. No, ma'am, I'm not. And that's not what I want to be. I'd rather be a friend than a lady. You have also created a new class of deleted by this law, and you will also bear the financial consequences of this class, in addition to all the injustices you have caused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u269	Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič, please
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Of course, I will support the law, and I must say that I am always amazed by the unbearable ease of beating the rule of law and the constitution. Unbearable ease. This coalition is no longer sacred. And I agree, if not otherwise, that epilogue will be experienced in a court of law in Strasbourg. That's the first thing I wanted to tell you. As far as state pensions are concerned, I have already explained myself, and colleague Han, for the third time I am telling Mr Tanko, the state pension for those pensioners who were granted pensioners, has been preserved by ZPIZ-2, Svetlik's Law. You broke up with those you signed, the pension law, and caused the consequences we're experiencing today. And you also wrote that in your PIZ-2, which you explain in the introduction. Let's tell each other and pour some clean wine. Those people who live in truly difficult situations are entitled to significantly higher social assistance, including up to €460. Those poor women you're talking about. Third time. The privileged. For God's sake, ask yourself what Section 143 of the Law is talking about. Mr. Pojbich, stop fooling around. We're talking about pensioners who fought our freedom, who suffered in the camps. We're talking about people who have been wronged. Are they privileged?Oh, my God! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u271	Mrs. Tina Comel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u272	Thank you for your word. I would just like to say a few things briefly and one thing is that I will absolutely support this proposal. Another matter of interest to me, Mr President of the National Assembly, what does your father say about this debate today?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u273	Ma'am, you're explaining your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u274	I said I would support our proposal and the SD party proposal. And what I find is that we are fighting hard for all citizens of Slovenia, and you, the coalition, are fighting hard for no one.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u275	Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u276	Thank you very much. I am disappointed, sad, that the darkness that is well-intentioned, that corrects injustices has been plunged into a terrible ideological battle. But I fear that this is actually the government's intention from the very beginning to introduce a new ideology with certain partial measures. You divide people into those that are desirable and those that are not desirable. Those who are yours, and those who are not yours, who are no one's, so to speak. President of the National Assembly, it's nice that you agree that with a certain law, which is partial and which causes new injustices, you will further save your relatives. It occurred to me that your father is one of these. It is true that in the basic law, injustices have been committed, but it is only right that you do not correct injustices for 8,000 victims only, and it is right to correct the injustices of all 26 thousand and some of the victims with obedience and responsibility. There are also war invalids among them. No matter how many times we have heard, those who have sacrificed their health to us today are free, independent. Even to do such nonsense, I am sorry that we are doing such stupid things in this temple of democracy, not only do we win a rating, but we show how little our people, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are worth. I will absolutely support the proposal of the novel that we have prepared in the opposition, and once again I call on you to do so because you have made such a public promise. Don't eat your word again and again.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u277	Just to explain it to my colleagues and colleagues. My father has nothing to do with Article 143 of Zuyfa, and he does not belong to any of these categories, nor to what the government proposal refers to. Just to clarify. And now we are going to the vote. We vote on the bill. I will suspend the vote again to let you know what you are voting on. The decision is as follows: The proposal for a bill amending the Public Finance Balance Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members, 37 to 48. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. The legislative procedure on the bill is thus concluded. The same topic awaits us on the basis of government law at a meeting in November. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, this is the Re-decision on the Slovenian State Holding Act. We're moving on to decision-making. I will draw your attention to the fact that the majority of Members, i.e. 46 or more, should vote in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution when re-decision is taken. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Please sign up. Mr Michael Prevc has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u278	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will once again support this law, as I said before in my position. When in my position earlier, somehow, I mentioned the reasons why we would back up this marriage, I was hoping that I was doing it the last time. This time I really hope that I will give one last reason why in the Slovenian People's Party we will re-support this law on the Slovenian State Holding. For the first time, because this law changes the current practice of managing state property, which we probably all agree was catastrophic, regardless of who was in power. Secondly, we will once again support this law in the Slovenian People's Party because all state investments are transferred under the direct responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, on the basis of a clear strategy of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, must be responsible for the effective management and management of this state property. Thirdly, this law will be again supported because this way the state property will be managed in one place, in a central place, we have said this several times, where we can always check for a period of time how the governance of each individual government has been successful. And fourthly, the holding company's responsibility will no longer be shared. It will be carried by one administration and one supervisory council, one government and finally by a national assembly. The Slovenian Holding Act will be again supported by the Slovenian People's Party because it means a shift in mentality and in liability to state property. And last but not least because we owe it to people to control state property differently and better than it has done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u279	Mag. Alenka Bratušek on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u280	The positive Slovenia will not support the law. First, because it is unconstitutional, secondly, because you take the entire property of the country for yourself, for one government, as Mr Prevc said a little earlier, and because, Mr Starman, you can about that billion you spoke of as a payphone, you're just dreaming, and you're going to be lying about your own budget that we have here. And there's nothing in there. The budget and the state will still be out of dividends, slightly less than 100 million. This will be the reality of your holding company. Positive Slovenia has introduced its law to regulate governance in one place and ownership would remain in the country. It was ours, but of course it was not worth the debate and you had it on your desks for three seconds, so much so that you voted that it was not suitable for further consideration. So much for stepping together. I'll tell you again, if, by any chance, the law is not passed today or if it is rejected by the people at the referendum, you still have our marriage in the drawer. If not, we can give it to you to sign it, if that's the main obstacle. And once again, this law, which has been passed by the Positive Slovenia, is significantly better than what you are deciding today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u281	Mag. Marko Pogačnik on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u282	The Slovenian Democratic Party will once again support the proposed law. We estimate that centralisation of managed state property means more efficient, transparent and responsible management of state property. We estimate that all these allegations and frauds regarding the sale of state property, the places of the century are unjustifiable, and in particular the law has a number of safeguards that will prevent the headless sale of state property. It is also important that the opposition has its representative in the supervisory council, that the representative of the Economic and Social Council also sit inside. We estimate that there are no substantive reasons for the referendum, and above all these are political reasons. The referendum will be a very bad signal for the European Commission, for the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund. We expect him to overcome his sanity and that this will not happen. Above all, we would like to point out that the adoption and implementation of this law also means long-term sustainability and stability for the pension fund, as this law guarantees and obliges the holding company to refer 10% of the purchase to the Capital Society, which will ensure the sustainability of this system.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u283	Mr Richard Braniselj on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u284	Thank you, President. Why does the Slovenian State Holding need to be given an opportunity? Especially because there is one place where complete state silver will be concentrated and managed, if we call it that. Because for the first time in the history of this country, the management of this holding company will also be sought through an international tender. Because this law includes the most powerful anti-corruption clause. Because this state holding company eliminates the very weakness of the current Capital Investment Management Agency, this is transparency and responsibility. The system of holding means the application of the provisions of the Companies Act, where the liability for compensation is clearly demarcated, underlined and transparent. The Supervisory Board is composed in a balanced manner. In view of the fact that we propose to give the Slovenian State Holding Group an opportunity, and finally to prove that the state property can be managed not only well, but also supremely. We will support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u285	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u286	Thank you for your word. Of course, we will oppose the Slovenian State Holding Act and support the decision of the Council of State to veto the vote in the National Assembly on the appropriateness of this law. Look, if you haven't tried to listen to our arguments in the multi-hour, eight-hour, nine-hour debates and even today's, I will only read you a piece of the text, which has also been written by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, and summarizes the opinion or position of the State Council, and believe me that the Legislative and Legal Service does not collect it for free. In its opinion, the legal and legal service states: "The Slovenian State Holding Act represents a new form of governance that is completely without content." Although the key issues of governance of state property are of a substantive nature, you do not talk about the content in this law. And this law does not eliminate the greatest weaknesses in the management of state property – this is mainly the absence of ownership policy and strategy. There is nowhere in the law to feel ownership policy, even less strategy. Of course, prior to the adoption of the strategy, it is envisaged to adopt a classification of investments, which will represent the government's sales programme. And this government sales programme has already been written into the 2013 and 2014 Budget Implementation Act of €3.4 billion. So it's a real estate sale. And what is the worst, respected colleagues and colleagues in Novi Slovenija, Slovenian Democratic Party, Slovenian People's Party, National List and DeSUS, this law nationalizes the property of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. You all claim to be for democracy, and in this law you have written down the nationalization of the property of the insured, who are the ones who set up the institution for pension and disability insurance. Nationalization is supported by all those parties who support this law. This is totally contrary to any democratic logic, so once again we prove that this is not about governance. It is a nationalisation and then the sale of a 34% share of the Insurance Company Triglav under the table. And this is an organised place of property, which is by no means supported by the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u287	And an explanation of the voice in his own name. Anybody want a word? I'm opening the application. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u288	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I can only say something and find out what you're doing isn't good. This is bad for this country. This is bad for our economy. You'll know that when it's too late. That's the saddest part. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u289	Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u290	Thank you very much. I will vote again in favour of this law, as well as my colleague and both colleagues, because so far the management of state property has been poor, ineffective, practically non-profit-making, because a simple citizen, when accompanying the operation of AUKN, was able to create a picture about this agency, which was a parasite, which was based on problematic legislation when it accompanied permanent disputes between Pahor and Minister Golobic on television screens, and in the meantime was the President of the Capital Investment Management Agency. We expect the Slovenian State Holding to manage the most competent staff, close to business ethics, honesty, work for the common good. It won't be a nationalisation, it won't be a robbery. These are the flossules we've been listening to for a long time, and now they're all laughing at them. But if it comes to selling, transparent sales, if it comes to privatisation, that's probably a good thing, because we've just shown and proved in these 21 years that we just don't know or that politics can't manage state property. So I am voting again for this Slovenian State Holding Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u291	Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u292	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. I will vote against this law. This law, as it is now written, allows you to continue your practice in a more or less similar composition from 2004 to 2008, when you successfully sunk Intereuropo, very nearly successful Luka Koper, heavily burdened Mercator and so on. Governance, because the country has indirect control, which is the case with AUKN, would no longer be the case. The current form you are proposing, however, makes it possible to do so again. In particular, it is concerned about the interim period when the strategy for the management of state property is not adopted, as it allows for the sale of Slovenia to your benefit, not for the benefit of the country of Slovenia. I think that this small asset, which remains, is between 11 billion and 14 billion, should be used for the benefit of citizens and citizens, not for the benefit of the political parties currently running Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u293	Mag. Stanko Stepichnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u294	Thank you so much for saying that. I will also vote against it. That's because I don't think he's serious about this holding company. In 2013, 2014 there was no improvement in economic growth. And if it were the right purpose, for 2013 and 2014, there would be some forecast of what will be done with the sale of this state property in Slovenia and what benefits will be given to citizens or citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u295	Mrs. Masha Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u296	Thank you very much. There are many reasons why I will not support this marriage. Firstly, because we have decided again on how we will manage the entire assets left over to this country in the future by means of an urgent procedure. Secondly, because there is a law before us that experts believe is once again inconsistent with the OECD Constitution and guidelines. Thirdly, since the holding company with the only remaining assets of this country will have the right to have private law as a private enterprise of one of the members of the government. With this property, the government will be free of charge without having to ask anyone. Fourthly, because the government will act as a congregation in the holding company, it is said to be an organ of holding and as an authority, and at the same time it will also control the supervisory board, which is once again contrary to the OECD guidelines. Holding's responsibility will not be dispersed, we have heard in the debate, it will be borne by the administration and the government. What we will do to citizens if this administration and this government make the wrong decision, that's what I'm asking. Since the income from holding capital investments will not be the income of the budget, that is the fifth reason. Six because the holding company will be able to get involved in the day-to-day management of the subsidiaries. The week, because the holding will not be subject to a public procurement clause, which opens the door to customerism and corruption. Eighthly, because holding will not be subject to a provision on access to information of a public nature, which means that all information relating to it will be a business secret and transparency will be disabled. And finally, I will vote against it because, unfortunately, I don't believe in your good intentions.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u297	Thank you. Mr. Lucky Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u298	Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. But still. We had either a last chance or a good opportunity to show the hand of reconciliation to the unions, and we firmly rejected that possibility. Today, individuals threatened unions to do what they did. Secondly, holding is an economic company in which completely different elements will apply as they are today. They say it's income-free in companies. How much income do we get from private companies? Can someone say that? And if it was said today that we could get a billion, I'll give you a vote if you write in the budget that next year you'll get 500 million and 2014 billion. Do this and I'll believe you. I don't believe you. And if we're talking about AUKN and everything we like to talk about, why didn't you put the strategy into procedure? She was ready. There was only a few things to add. Why didn't you give it to me? We didn't even get the AUKN report. So we didn't want to know what was going on. And, ladies and gentlemen, it's about privatisation. The company will own the electricity economy in its entirety, all other companies, all of which will now be in an economic society managed by three people with an assembly called the Slovenian government. It's an extraordinary privatisation, it's exactly what Mr Janko Weber said. It's a nationalisation and I can't support such a law. And once again, you have the last chance to make a good marriage and not to be tempted, because people will take up their rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u299	Anyone else want a word? Mr. Roman Jakič, Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u300	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Of course, I will follow what the State Council has presented as an argument why it vetoed. Unfortunately, we have not been able to hear from the representative of the Council of State, despite the intervention, to underpin the arguments against. Why am I personally against it? Because I believe that something similar has happened since 2004-2008, that at the time these same players, if I may say so, destroyed or sold under the table Luka Koper, Mercator, Intereuropa, destroyed HIT, which created 3% of the social gross product The interesting thing is that colleagues of the coalition, when they need to, refer to OECD assessments, when the OECD assessment does not suit them, and they do not talk about it. The company you want to create will not have to deposit any accounts – except the government, which will be the owner, assembly and supervisor at the same time. Nothing will be subject to public orders no longer to public sales, but this will be a matter for individuals in the government to deal with. We already see that the Prime Minister, past the existing authorities, considers himself with the Greeks or others how he will sell something. This is the last privatisation of the vampire government, the last time you will take all the countries and, of course, all the citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u301	Mrs. Renata Brunskole, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u302	Thank you very much. I'm not going to support the bill. Instead of going in the order and just as it would be right to draw up a national asset management strategy first in order to follow the principle of transparency and transparency, we are going in the opposite direction. This is an extraordinary power that we are legally transferring from the country's borders to an economic society which will also be able to sell this property. To be clear, these include companies such as Krka, Gorenje, Telekom. I think it is not a good time that the law is not so ready for citizens and citizens and those elected by the people to decide that we should just let state property go. I won't support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u303	Anyone else want a word? If not, we are going to vote on the law. We're voting. We are re-voting the bill, but what else could it be? I don't know if you'd like to ask procedurally, you can ask if there's anything unclear, I'd prefer to interrupt the vote. Here you go, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u304	Thank you very much. I have to say, I was a little confused. I didn't know if I should vote yes or no. Since I believe that you, as chairman, must form a decision before you put the vote to the vote. No, I didn't hear him. I'm sorry. I would ask if only you could rephrase the decision to say and then vote on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u305	The agenda item is called Re-decision on the Slovenian State Holding Act. We're voting. 88 Members and Members are present. It was 51 votes against 36. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Before I go to point 16. Today is the day of reading magnetograms. I got a magnetogram with my colleague Barbara Žgajner Tavš's statement. I've heard a lot in this National Assembly at my expense, and I've never asked for any excuses, but if my family is involved, I'm going to do something different. If I can read, "The president of the National Assembly, it is nice if you agree to be able to save your relatives with a certain law that is partial and that causes new injustices, it seems to me that your father is also one of these." I'd like to ask if you can verify the fact and expect your apology as well. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u306	Thank you very much, President. Excuse me, I'm sorry if I've hurt you or mistakenly commented on things that really came into my ear. I didn't want to hurt you, I didn't want to discredit anyone, and if you were to read the continuation of the sentence in my sentence's magnetogram, I made it very clear that if they were solving things in a partial way, it would make sense to solve things that were wrongly done or wrongly caused not only by 8 thousand pensioners, but for all 26 thousand and several pensioners. That's what I'm behind. If I have misrepresented the things that have been mediated and have come to my attention, I truly apologize, so much more if things are not real. But I did, I think I got the answer from your side and I believe that things that are circulating are obviously not true and I believe that your additional explanation has also explained to all those who are spreading such untruths around.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u307	Mr. Möderndorfer, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u308	Mr President, given that you are holding the meeting and are also the President of the National Assembly, I now ask you on the basis of this Rules of Procedure, given that these points, and what you have just mentioned, are not on the agenda at all, I wonder whether this is your special right to read magnetograms as chairman and to ask questions between points that none of the Members and Members can ask, unless it makes the cry "procedural", you will probably say so yourself. And I want to know where you got that right to ask. You comment on the only possible rules of procedure at the time of implementation. That's why I'm asking you, what was that now? That I will learn from parliamentary practice for the next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u309	As it is said, if a slander or direct lie is expressed, I have the right to request an apology. I'd do it for you or anyone else. Procedurally. Mag. Alenka Bratushek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u310	Mr. Virant, what you've just done applies to all of us from now on. By the time we feel someone's said the truth, we'll interrupt the session, get a magnetogram, read it, ask for an apology. As of today, this applies to everyone, or is it just the President's privilege?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u311	If someone in this room specifically accuses someone, accuses them or anything like that, it will happen in any case, just as we have read the tape once today because someone has abused the replica. Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u312	Thank you very much, President. This time, I will express or take advantage of the procedural procedure and ask you not to use such incriminating words. My words are not lies. I made it very clear that it came to my ear. That's not a lie. And I beg your pardon. However, I think so much that we are all capable of cooperating with each other in an corrective manner in the National Assembly. You lied to me and accused me of lying, and I said again what came into my ear. And that wasn't a claim.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u313	Procedurally, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u314	Look, presidents, we have one serious problem. When you hold a meeting, there are one rules when the vice-presidents are in charge, but there are other rules. Yesterday, when we had parliamentary questions here, Minister Turk accused the MP of lying, which is very unusual. No one reacted in this room, no one demanded a record or anything else. This is simply unacceptable, as is now the case in the National Assembly. As President of the National Assembly, you have chosen your parliamentary practice, which we do not now know how to classify. In fact, if I ask all three vice-presidents or Mr Tank, the eternal interpreter for the parliamentary crack, he will not be able to explain exactly where we find this in the Rules of Procedure. Understand that I am extremely ill-willed because you have different centimeters and vats for various questions and events in the National Assembly. And I don't like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u315	You've expressed your point of view.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u316	President, I have not received an answer to the question I have asked. It was a procedural question. I didn't get it. You're the only one who explains [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Can I please finish? You're the only one who can explain during the sitting alone. On what basis did you explain this? Let me explain that I'll know about another time. I don't know. I would like to protect my Ambassador Barbara Žgajnar Tavš because you do not know her because you create your own rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u317	Thank you. Procedural? No, no, no. Thank you. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is a re-decision on the Law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. This is also a matter of re-decision, and the law has been passed if there is a vote for 46 or more Members. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I'm opening the application. Mr Roman Žveglič, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u318	Thank you for your word, Madam President. We will not support the veto in the Slovenian People's Party, but we will once again support the marriage. We will support the law once again because we are convinced that we must stop the practice of continuous recapitalisation in the rehabilitation of banks. We want our banks not to be bottomless, not to deal with their past and to focus on lending the economy, but not to clean themselves through recapitalisation. We will also support the law because we do not have the assurance that they would succeed through the recapitalisation of the banks. We don't have time for banks to get on their feet anymore, and in the meantime, foreign banks are taking out the boards. Ireland, which you mentioned many times. is forecast to have had weak and mild economic growth in the first half of the year, and is forecast to be slightly better by the end of the year. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will once again support the law because it is a key solution to the current banking system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u319	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u320	The banking system needs to be repaired. We have two tools, on the one hand, recapitalisation, on the other hand, identification of bad claims. History has shown that the recapitalisations have not worked so far, and we have only one option, which is to set aside bad claims. Furthermore, this proposal also allows that, if necessary, the opposition bank resolution tool can also be used in the notes, and this is recapitalisation. And whoever wants to do the Slovenian economy good will be happy to support this law, because it is the only way to try to save what to get rid of. But if we let the matter go down, then we'll go into a cycle from which there'll just never be a solution again. Of course, we will once again support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u321	On behalf of the SDS mag. Andrey Shircelj. Procedural mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u322	Now, I don't know if, because of what my colleague said earlier, it is necessary to delete us from the list of those who are on our turn to talk, but if I have looked closely, it is my turn to follow Mr Szveglic. So I'm asking you if this could be related to the previous one. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u323	Excuse me and if you'll excuse me, you have the floor. Please, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u324	Thank you, Mr President, and I hope that something like this will not happen again and again. We're talking about a bad bank, a fourth, a fifth, a sixth in this country in addition to all the bad ones we already have. But now I will borrow Mr Shirtzl's words when he was there for the pay phone and I very much agree with them. He said, "It would be incontrovertible to expect those who have caused claims to do so." When the claims were made, we know, Mr. Shircelj. 2006 to 2008 maximum. Whoever ran the government at the time, we know. Mr. Jansha. His first government. You, you'd like to sweep it under the rug. And that's what this is all about. I strongly and deeply agree with your words. We don't know what claims, we don't know how much, we don't know at what price. But we know that this will cost Slovenians and Slovenians 4 billion dollars. 4 billion euros! At least I hope you're aware of how much money that is. Positive Slovenia has not supported such a bad marriage. It will not support the law that will hold each Slovenian accountable for an additional EUR 2 000. On Friday, you've got a thousand 340s, and you're going to charge him with this bill for an additional 2,000 euros. You still remember the words of President Ivan Janez Janša: "Indebt is over." He just didn't say when. The counter that you had up to your government's appearance on the website, that's a public debt counter, would make a lot of sense to restore. I would be very enlightened and very interesting to us on this page. So think about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u325	On behalf of the SDS mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u326	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Slovenian Democratic Party will once again support this law. The reasons are clear and transparent. With regard to the models available, we have recapitalisation on the one hand, on the other hand a combination of recapitalisation and also the establishment of a special company for contested claims. Given that the recapitalisations in the past were not effective and that, I repeat, as also quoted by my colleague Bratušek, those who created the contested claims are probably not in the role of solving them. Here is the question of who creates the contested claims. Whether it is the National Assembly, but it is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Are these municipal councils or are they bank administrations and supervisory councils in bank administrations? I don't think it's necessary for my colleague Bratušek to explain that bank boards on credit boards approve credits and that these boards are supervised by the supervisory councils and that supervisory councils in state banks receive information, monthly or weekly, or when they have available, where they wish, bank exposure to individual commissioners. That's what the Banking Act says. And the supervisors and supervisors, I think that Mrs Bratušek was also the supervisor of the New Credit Bank Maribor for some time, are also responsible together with the bank administrations for the contested claims. This makes it completely inappropriate to compare and unprofessional, if you want, the contested claims with those of the government. I don't mind if it was the then government of John Janša. The contested claims are the responsibility of administrations, supervisors and Banka Slovenije, who can have everything and obtain all the information on when the credit was given, to whom, what the insurance was. In the first place, they are supervisory councils and supervisors and supervisors. So much for that. Given that the law is good to save not only the banks but also the economy, the Slovenian Democratic Party will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u327	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matvež Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u328	This twin marriage, the holding law and the bad bank law, represents the largest transaction ever made on the ground of this country. With two laws, you transfer assets worth between €15 billion and €16 billion. A comparable transaction, but significantly lower rank, was the guarantee for motorways during the first government of Janez Janša. This transaction has caused virtually all Slovenian construction to fail in this crisis. How easy it is to do this. You have chosen a concept that is more expensive, which is technically complicated, which raises a number of questions about evaluation, which raises a number of questions about what a bad claim is, which makes it possible because of the wide range of speculations and frauds and the resulting damage to public property and public interest. The concept you chose is too expensive. On the other hand, you have a cheaper or cheaper alternative. And that's the recapitalisation of banks. You can talk about us recapitalizing for 15 years. But, you know, once we recapitalized, these banks brought profit, and then the crisis came. Before that, however, it was irresponsible to grant politically arranged loans for tycunisation, to overheat an economy from which we did not contribute anything to increased competitiveness. I invite you to reject this law. Reject this law because in the end it will not save anything and will not achieve what would be its goal: overcoming credit crunches, launching credit activity. The situation is too serious, and we don't have the luxury of talking past each other. Reject this law and take this opportunity to make a better solution. Otherwise, I'm afraid I'll see you at the referendum. But then don't point your finger at the opposition, at the unions, at professional institutions such as the European Central Bank and the Bank of Slovenia. Then take a look at yourself and know that the referendum with all the negative consequences it will bring, your responsibility, the mirror of your arrogance, self-insuredness, pompousness, and, I hope, also the scenario by which you will perform mass privatisation and sale of our property. Social Democrats will also oppose the law this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u329	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Richard Braniselj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u330	Thank you, President. Why is the state saving its banks? To protect the taxpayer's money. That's clear. We are now deciding whether this model is correct. In the Civil Gazette, we sincerely believe that this model is correct. That's why we're going to support this marriage. Maybe a few more things why this marriage is good. As this institution, this company will manage in one place all these claims that will eventually be transferred to this company. Another old one. This law entails a threefold extension of the time limits in civil and criminal matters. More than enough time for our law enforcement authorities and administrations to erase all those who are criminally and materially responsible for the situation. And one more thing. No marriage in itself brings a solution, and the implementation of this law will bring them. We expect that staffed administrations and supervisory councils will be with top experts, and that this solution will result as we wish. This will be supported by a citizen's passport.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u331	Anyone want to explain their voice in their own name? I'm opening the application. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. My fellow Jew, if you'll turn it off, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u332	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Comrade Dean. I will again support the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, as will the New Slovenia Group. I'm worried about a series of vetoes. I'm worried about a series of referendums. These are not good solutions and there is no way out of our country's crisis. I am particularly concerned by the energy unions, which, on the one hand, expect the early financial support and also the international treaty with the European Investment Bank, but I do not know how this works together. In fact, citizens and citizens expect the rule of law rather than good wages and good pensions. And we have clearly stated in the coalition contract that when we identify bad claims, we will also identify responsible people. These are administrations and supervisory councils. And I make it clear to the Slovenian public, to the Slovenian taxpayers, that we will fully implement the coalition treaty in this regard, even if it comes to any of us here present. Of course, there are more concepts. The concept of recapitalisation has failed several times. Our concept, government or coalition, is slightly different. We are confident that he will succeed with good staff, with competent people close to Slovenia, close to business ethics and morality. On the part of the New Slovenia Group, we will contribute four votes in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u333	Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u334	President, thank you. As you know, the Irish warn us, do not repeat our mistake by creating a bad bank. A prominent Irish economist, Mr Brian Lucey, advised the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not to repeat Irish mistakes in the model of a weak bank. He said that the bad bank in Ireland did not solve the economic problems, the credit crunch did not drop and the volume of loans is still decreasing. "When we got a bad bank," he said, "they all claimed that the state would get its money back, and now it's becoming clear that that's not the case." Similarly, the European Central Bank is in the position that the State should recapitalise the bank with real money, not with State bonds, which is a requirement of the Slovenian Bad Bank Act. Those who are to be helped by this law do not agree. Why don't we listen to them, or why don't you listen to them? No one specifically says which companies that operate poorly still have potential and how they will be saved. It is not acceptable to buy out by state debt and the money of taxpayers of a poor private bank claim. This should be handled by private owners themselves. But when it came to saving the workers in Primorje, you thought differently or acted differently. The eternal problem is in poor control. So far, all the supervisors have meditated and have not supervised. That is why I will not support this law, I cannot support it, but also others who think carefully, I call on you not to support it, because the law will only bring more confusion into Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u335	Mr. Darko Jazbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u336	Thank you for your word. When some of the content is not very close to me, I usually look at what the profession says as a Member. In the case of this bank, the entire general public is strongly opposed. An interesting 2009 article came to my attention where Mr Šuštersič, current Minister of Finance, describes all the reasons why the bad bank is the worst solution. He says it's actually a reward for those managers and businesses that did bad work. It says that this would be the practical nationalisation of some banks, in this case A banks, and that we should not allow it because it's the same as if we didn't take the snow off the house in winter and then take the house away from you. I wanted to say that this is an extensive article by Mr Šušteršič that a really bad bank is not a good solution and I will vote against it because the profession says so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u337	Mrs. Renata Brunskole, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u338	Thank you very much. I'm not going to support this law myself. There used to be talk of contested claims. The contested claims shall be liable to borrowers who do not settle their obligations. Indeed, the reasons can be extremely different, including the cessation of the company's operation. Of course, banks are also responsible for the fact that the risks and risks of individual investments have been verified, as well as the adequacy and adequacy of individual investment or credit insurance. However, the supervisory boards of the banks are responsible for as much as they were aware of such potential risks or were not aware of the greater risk of the investment, as they would not have decided in this case and supported it. The establishment of a bad bank, as bank experts have said, is not the fastest and not the most effective way to stabilise the banking system, but it is the clearing of banks with poor claims, which means that banks are more likely to sell state-owned banks, so banks will clean up bad claims. However, this law does not lead to the removal of the credit crunch, which is of the utmost interest to taxpayers, both companies and individuals. So this does not mean that companies will get credit faster to get rid of this adopted law. Bank experts are therefore also warning us to consider the matter first and then take action. We do not know for ourselves how many bad claims there are, which are the criteria and what claims are actually to be classified as a bad bank. I really can't support the law because of that kind of inadequacy.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u339	Thank you. Mr. Lucky Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u340	Ladies and gentlemen, there are five reasons why I can't, of course there are many more, to uphold the law. First of all, because some of you are threatening that there will be vetoes and referendums, and you're wondering why this is happening. Because the laws weren't harmonised because you don't listen to common sense or profession for the first time. Second, the rule of law — we could have proved and started looking for those who had done something wrong. The rule of law is also, of course, that the President of the Government comes to court when he is called, without reason, and does not come to court. It's a legal state. Don't talk about the rule of law if he doesn't. And the Guarantee Act we passed here in this National Assembly. Does anyone respect him? He doesn't respect it. It is said that we do not respect our own laws and do not demand that this be done. And someone says that now we're going to condition the energy unions by not getting the energy guarantees, please! The third reason is the four billion that we will give as a guarantee, which, of course, later can be exactly what four billion of our money means. Among them, ladies and gentlemen, is also the Bell of one billion. We will give the Slovenian Church a billion euros through the budget, that is to say. And for the fourth time, we didn't get any answers at the time of the adoption of the law. Remember when the government representatives sat here. Did they answer our questions? They didn't answer our questions, of course we didn't get any answers. And it's about selling when we talked about holding, it's about selling a bank. We're gonna sell clean banks, no bad claims, and that's the worst. And so once again, I will not give my vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u341	Mr. Jerko Chehovin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u342	Thank you. I won't vote for it either. Not that I'm against bank rehabilitation, but I'm against the way this coalition has decided. During the whole process, it was not possible to have some in-depth serious discussion of the other options offered. In fact, we were forced into a situation when a skeleton was adopted, in some way, and then we had to adjust the content to what was adopted. Previously, at one point, we have made it easy to nationalize or definitively nationalize part of our pensions. Now we will socialise some controversial loans, namely private loans, private loans at the burden of taxpayers. There's no problem here. I believe that the whole thing is not so much for the resolution of the banks, but mainly for the exclusion of the profession, for the exclusion of the Bank of Slovenia, for the elimination of the banking system itself, and not least for the exclusion of the opposition. Last but not least, those trashes will be in holding in five years.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u343	Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u344	Thank you for your word. If in the previous Slovenian State Holding Act we have listened to how everything is wrong because we have state-owned enterprises, because we have state ownership and that this needs to be sold and privatised as soon as possible, then we can find out in this law that you are investing 4 billion euros in the purchase of private business debts. How? See, not half an hour may be the difference in these debates, once you claim that state property is the greatest evil in the Republic of Slovenia, but now you are predicting 4 billion to buy debts from private companies. And it will come upon the shoulders of the country, on the shoulders of all of us. Do you feel this disharmony and the actual confusion you are causing in the country? One more thing. It is not only about credits that businesses cannot repay due to the economic crisis, for example, it is also about credit companies, but they are doing very well. These are private companies that do business well, have credits on banks, but you also want to buy them. In any case, respected colleagues and colleagues, it is not about saving the economy, saving the country, helping people, but it is only about predatory interest. PENILIAN INTEREST THROUGH BUYING 12 BILLION GOVERNMENTAL GOVERNMENTS. And here you're going to resell private companies so you can submit them. And what's worse, you're also buying out loans from natural persons. Someone who's hired a house-building loan will also be able to buy out this loan and transfer it to the bank's debt management company. And you will also be able to blackmail this individual who built the house by changing the terms of the repayment of the loan in order to force him to sell his property. Mafia business, as the Prime Minister has said, and I cannot support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u345	Anyone else? Another round of applications. The word has magic. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u346	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. The fact is, in my opinion, the previous government underestimated the problem of public finances, as well as the problem of system banks, which are owned directly and indirectly by the State. It is also true that banks have been poorly managed, not only poorly managed, but also poorly controlled and poorly regulated. That is why today we have bad claims and a situation as it is. The government is proposing a solution, a systemic solution. The main measure is the transfer of these bad claims from banks to the fund. It has been said several times that this transfer will not be automated but is a specific transmission mechanism and transfer price. By long-term economic value to be determined according to certain methods and rules by a specific rule. The ceiling of the guarantee is 4 billion, but this public debt will be repaid in different ways and will only temporarily increase public finances, but it is expected that public debt will also be paid in five years. The purpose of the law is to preserve the stability of the financial system as a whole. Targets are clear. The aim of the establishment of this company and the Fund is to implement measures to ensure the efficient use of public funds and the reimbursement of budgetary resources, to facilitate the lending of the non-financial sector, to privatise banks and, most importantly, to identify the responsibility for the creation of bad bank claims, to eliminate credit crunches and to assist in the recovery of businesses, particularly micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and independent entrepreneurs, and to give them the opportunity to finance activities. This is the basic and key priority of this government, which is why I support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u347	Master Diane Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u348	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! At least we agree on two things. First of all, no one wants to see the rascals, not in this state council, not in this country, and it's right to treat them the way the rascals have to. Here I think that consensus is present, and I hope that there will be more rapid arrangements in this country. Secondly, banks are the reason that we are likely to have negative economic growth in Slovenia at the moment and that, in fact, the economy, craftsmanship, agriculture cannot rent loans under certain normal conditions. The problem is in solution. A problem we all probably all see, but it's the next one. At a time when all important Slovenian economists and experts such as Dr. Bole, Dr. Ribnikar, when important European experts, when important European and world institutions say there are two solutions, but one is bad, and also where we have tried it, that is, in Ireland, it has acted badly, the country has become too burdensome, and the student is not, and I do not understand why we are then looking for a path after this solution. Why seek a path after a solution that is significantly more expensive? Why seek a path after a solution that takes time to prove that it can or will not be effective, while we are aware that there is no model for determining the market price of bad claims in the professional public and in practice. If there was a model of how to determine the market price of bad claims, the current minister, who apparently has a historical memory in such a way that he does not have it, well wrote himself that if the market price existed, it should not affect the state, but the market to buy off bad claims. No one can set bad claims and their prices. If assessed too high, it is clear what this means: that citizens and citizens are financed from their pockets by private owners of banks. However, if they are assessed too low, it means that we are essentially putting the bank into a capital mismatch. I call on you not to do any damage to Slovenia and find a model that will work immediately and will be cheaper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u349	Thank you. Mrs. Maja Dimitrovsky, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u350	Thank you for your word. I won't support the law. An interesting statement in the conclusion of the column Mira Polž, which was published in Sunday, states: "Weak bank is sabotage of a large format. Janšev's entire policy leads Slovenia to economic and social break and social chaos." Ladies and gentlemen, the formula is very simple: to eliminate credit crunches and reprogram loans to companies that show development capital. And you don't need any marriage for all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u351	Masha Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u352	Thank you, President. Unfortunately, explanation of voice is the only way to define ourselves on this veto. I will vote against this because the bill does not answer any dilemma or question raised by Members or experts in the debate. I will also vote against it because the law runs counter to the Bank Act, to the Company Act and is very likely to be contrary to the Constitution again. The Bank of Slovenia, the Anti-Corruption Commission, the Administrative Court, the European Central Bank, the Legal and Legal Service, and even, as we can see, the State Council with a veto, expressed concerns about the laws. As we have already heard in the debate today, even Mrs Merkel, your Mrs Merkel, has pointed out that the quality of crisis legislative solutions is significantly more important than the speed of their adoption. This solution is not good, and it is not thoughtful. And lastly, I have also volunteered, and I will vote against it because it pains me that the price of this crisis and the collapse of the bank that it has caused, I would like to say, the wild and unregulated financial sector will be paid by citizens, people, but nothing by the owners and managers of the banks. And that seems insanely unfair to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u353	Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u354	Thank you very much. I will vote in favour of the law, and that is precisely because our citizens will not pay for the bank robbery, when one billion money has been taken from banks and today they are exclusively trying to protect those responsible for the bank robbery or, as in Germany, banditry in banks. These efforts to protect these people are more than obvious. As a result, this law is the only solution, since it provides for the opening of credit banks, it is determined who has approved these bad claims and is responsible for the immediate notification to the law enforcement authorities of those persons responsible for such bad claims. And the limitation periods are extended four times. And that's what you're afraid of. I hear that those sitting on billions are willing to pay extremely well to protect those who will not be responsible for these acts. And unfortunately for that, I saw last night that Mrs. Bratusek didn't even admit that she looked at the banks. Yesterday, she stated that "I did not meet with Slovenian banks as director of the Directorate at the Ministry of Finance". Yeah, but she's like the supervisor of the Maribor Credit Bank. And now this is a general effort to prevent the claim of responsibility. But we must, through responsibility, determine who is responsible and that they come before the time of justice and that this money is coming back. And it is necessary to send people so that they do not fall for those who promote the referendum in this matter, because they will be paid well by those who have the money. And people will be cheated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u355	Mr. Marian Pojbich. Mr. Jakich, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u356	Dear President, in accordance with the practice you have put in place, I would ask you to answer or to call Mr Jerovsk to apologize for the obvious lies. No one on this side has charged a billion euros from banks and taken it somewhere. Like you did before and were offended because someone said something about your family or father, it would be appropriate to warn all the other MPs when they tell lies about someone taking money from banks on this side and taking it somewhere. Please, if at least at this level you react the same as yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u357	Anyone else want a procedural one? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u358	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I really don't want to do a circus from this House. I don't like it when there's a circus in this hall. But I agree with my colleague Jakic that the same vats should be used for all. We have fears that we have very carefully explained in the debate about the bad bank and the holding company. More. We were so precise that we said exactly where we saw the traps. Even for possible encroachment. But we did not point to Mr Jerovsk or other representatives of the ruling coalition. I also believe that a referendum in a given situation is not the best way, but it is obviously necessary to prevent the foolishness of this power. But to say that those who allow this referendum and if the referendum will be, I guarantee you that we will try to convince the public in it that these laws are not good, that they are too expensive. But don't think we're gonna do this because we're defending the privileges of some transition on the left or the right. We oppose these solutions because they are bad and because they are too expensive and too dangerous for the future development of this society. President, I respectfully ask you to invite a Member who has been extremely offensive to the opponents of this law to justify himself accordingly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u359	Look, I'm gonna end this debate too now. No one has been mentioned by name by Mr Jerovsk, if anyone has identified himself by name, please tell us. I didn't hear any names, no relatives were mentioned, nothing personal. Each person can assess the debate, whether you agree with it or not, after all, people look at it through transmission and can generate their own opinions. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u360	Dear Mr. President! In opening, I must say that I will re-support this law because I am sure that the law is good and that there is still some need for it in this given situation. We are all aware here and the Slovenian public is fully aware that banks need to be cleared of bad investments. Why does she know? We all know that at this point and now, at the latest, it is an opportunity for banks to start lending to the economy normally. We're all aware of that. And how will we do that if banks deal with their problems? And that's exactly what this law wants to do. All the time you are trying to inspire us and the Slovenian public to point out that this government has done absolutely nothing in order to do something on the revenue side to open new jobs. And it is this law that is one of those that is crucial, and how important it is that we get to that cile. And I'm sure he's not here in the National Assembly, and I hope to say he doesn't. This law also introduces responsibility. It is extremely important, and the Slovenian public, citizens and citizens, people, Slovenes and Slovenians have the right to know who is the one who received the loans, who is the one who signed the loans and who is the one who called from the background. They have this right to know, and it's been a while since this happened in this country. Ask the Slovenian public what they think about it, believe me, they support what I say. And today, Mr Meh, I have listened to you and many times I listen to you, your moralization when you try to teach us how to do and what needs to be done. I am sure that the situation in TES 6 needs to be cleared first, where money goes and how much money taxpayers will pay for private pockets. This needs to be cleared up and you're the one [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u361	Anybody else want to explain their voice? I'm opening the application. Mr. Boyan Starman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u362	Thank you so much for saying that. I did not intend to advertise, however, because I can see that we so strangely understand this bill and compare it with someone, or that taxpayers, through the rehabilitation of banks, will pay the claims of natural persons, bells and so on. Banks have these claims that are bad and they can't recover, no matter where. These banks cannot operate normally because they have to deal with this and have actually written off their balance sheets, as the Banking Act dictates, part of these claims, 20, 30, 40 %, depending on the situation, how they are being paid and so on. When the bad bank assumes these claims, none of these obligations will be paid, but will be particularly responsible for recovering from these bad obligations, but will do so professionally and will also look at them and will have to be held accountable for why such bad claims are left to the others who have given them. It bothers me, because some people are counting, from the debate I have heard that this means that now we will be paying taxpayers in the framework of this money, which will be used to rehabilitate banks, instead of those who have bad loans. These loans are already in banks and they're bad. We save banks so that they can perform their function, but we will not, through this way, write off any claims, not to physical or other persons. That's it. But I'll back the law. Thank you very much. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u363	Mrs. Patricia Shulin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u364	President, thank you for your word. I will support the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks mainly due to four key factors. At least for me. For the first time, because of the accumulated claims in the banking sector and the lack of transparency of those countries, the credit rating has already been lowered several times, thus increasing the debt costs to an unsustainable level. Secondly, because the adoption of this law will enable measures to strengthen the stability of banks and the financial system as a whole. Thirdly, because the law provides for criteria on the basis of which it will then decide whether the bank is entitled to be included in the resolution system. This will not be all on average, as said most often by colleague Weber, and I fear he does not understand at all what a bad claim is. The key criteria will be three: the importance of the bank for the stability of the financial system, the extent of the problem of poor claims in a specific bank and the need to ensure capital adequacy or the size of the capital adequacy problem of a particular bank. The Bank, which will be included in this company's programme if it is to be, that is to say, in its programme of resolution of bad bank claims, will also have to draw up a business strategy. This will not be so much so that all banks and all claims will be included in this. It will have to be a programme to resolve bad bank claims. And for the fourth time, what is my favorite measure in this law, is to seek the responsibility of those who have given such credits that have led us to such a state. I am not worried about this responsibility, but some seem to be very concerned and therefore such a great appeal to the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u365	Mr. Franz Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u366	Many times in this National Assembly recently, even in this mandate, it is heard that the bull must be caught by the horns. That those responsible must also be brought to justice, condemned and brought to the right places. That people don't trust politicians, not the judiciary, not the legal system. In short, there are a lot of problems. Colleagues and colleagues! In this law and why some so vehemently oppose him and what Comrade Jerovšek said, much has already been written in Article 11. Article 11, eighth indent, states that credit maps of individual bank debtors will also be transferred. So they'll move on. They are now only available to those dedicated to the Banking Act and are confidential. And now you'll see the names and surnames, you'll see who's signed, you'll see who's been involved in this whole story. And one more thing. Banks receiving measures under this Act shall not be subject to the provisions of the law governing banking for the protection of confidential data. That's one reason you're afraid. You are also afraid of Article 33, which states that both members of the management bodies, members of the supervisory authorities and the supervisory authorities of the banks are responsible. And one more thing. Obsolete, colleagues and colleagues, and only 4 times the general obsolescence. You're afraid of that because some of them obviously have butter on their heads.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u367	Mr. Matjaz Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u368	If the Member knows someone's guilty, it is his duty to report it. I support this part when we say that we need to find those responsible and lock up the thieves. And we don't have a problem with that. The key problem with the opposition and our thinking is that this solution will cost taxpayers significantly more than it would cost to recapitalise itself. Four billion will give taxpayers to buy off bad claims without knowing the value. And then you will have to give another billion euros, which is also in the budget to recapitalise banks, so that these banks can go to Europe, to the world, to give the economy new fresh money, the most urgent thing they need to do. Last but not least, ladies and gentlemen, when you speak, when have bad loans been made? In the government of Janez Janša. In 2004 and 2008, these abnormal crazy loans were granted and under those loans were signed by people with a last name and a name. And I don't care if it's either on the left or on the right. But your idea of settling bad claims will cost us taxpayers significantly more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u369	Mr. Franz Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u370	President, thank you for your word. I'll vote for the law myself. I am sure that this will also be the case for Members and Members of our Group, and especially for the reason that no one has proposed a better solution. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr President, I would like you to calm individuals down, because constantly, when I do, someone is talking in the back, so that they confuse me and then I just can't talk anymore. It's happened a little while ago, and it's happening now.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u371	That's what I noticed. Now I've interrupted you. That's what I've noticed, and I'd like to ask if you're listening to Comrade Jurša and if you're so calm that we can all hear him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u372	A bad bank is just some new solution. And I was already at the debate when we discussed the law, and I said that we should give it a chance and an opportunity to see what would happen. The recapitalisation of banks was a multiple solution and we found [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr Han, please, calm down, because you'll have another word, you'll probably get it if you ask it, maybe not now on these issues. The recapitalisation has already been a multiple solution and has not been successful. Now we need to find a new solution. Above all, because we want to realize what we have put into agreement in the coalition contract. Of course, we also want to find out who got the credit, who granted the credit, and why they granted the credit. Of course, we want to know if politicians were involved. And if politicians were involved, they should be brought to justice and punished accordingly if they are responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u373	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the explanations. Since you've called me from one side and the other. Look, I think you're right, I don't think it's right that one side of the other, and then the other one accuses the other again of what's stolen and what else he's going to steal. The criminal offences shall be decided by the authorities responsible, the prosecution, the police, the courts. And this comment of mine also refers to debates or explanations of voices that are not here tonight, I think we all agree that virtually everyone goes beyond that that is true for both sides. Please, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u374	Thank you for your word. I hope, given that I'm obviously going to be the last one, you're going to let me answer the phone calls that were or even the phone calls. I will not support the law absolutely. You will owe this country and citizens 4 billion euros, 2,000 euros each of Slovenia and Slovenia. It's your policy that the debt is over. Who's got the butter on their head? I don't know if you know how you got it or if someone got it, let me know. But tell them there when it's necessary. When such bad loans were made in banks, it is well known. 2006-2008. Mr Jerovšek, I came to the supervisory board of the New Bank of Credit in the second half of 2009. I will say again and again that the colleague who was with me in the supervisory board today is the executive director of the same bank. Your member. So the supervisory board was doing a great job. If he has progressed from the Supervisory Board to the Executive Director, there can be no other than that we have done excellent work. I don't believe that whoever made the mistakes that he did, I don't know what kind of criminal acts, would be called the CEO. By the way, when I was in the supervisory world, the New Credit Bank had all the revised reports showing a positive result, respected Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u375	Good. We have concluded our explanations of vote and are moving on to the vote. To avoid any misunderstanding, we are again deciding on the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. The adoption requires an absolute majority, i.e. at least 46 Members and Members. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 34. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We return to the interrupted first item of the agenda, these are questions of Members and Members. We will vote on the proposals for a debate on the answers of the Prime Minister and ministers. We have fourteen such conclusions. And we're just going in order. First decision I put to the vote: The Council of State will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question of mags. Alenka Bratušek regarding the differences between the pension and disability insurance law of the former government and the proposed pension and disability insurance law in relation to financial effects. Voice explanation, mag. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u376	I proposed that the National Assembly should hold this debate and not the Council of State. But I hope we'll be here if we do. Pension reform is not necessary there until 2015. Those are the famous words. Four times in the last year, there are also known words and slogans. I ask myself, but of course I didn't get the answer yesterday: What inspired you that this reform is now so urgently necessary? It is so urgent that you explain to the whole of Slovenia that we will fail if we do not accept this immediately. It's not consistent with the social partners. Probably, I guess you have the same criteria this year as you did last year, and you'll be against it again. I hope so. Since I have not received the answers of the President of the Government to very specific and professional questions, I would like to hold a debate on this. The differences between Svetlik and Vision’s pension reform are minimal, whether you admit it or not. But when they're both on the table in front of us, they'll be visible, 5%, according to experts. Now it's just about not extending or increasing retirement age. You say you're prolonging your working time. If someone starts working at 25 years old and works at 40 years old, I think 25 years on average is still a very early time to work, and he's going to be 40 years old when he retires. How much? Don't you raise your retirement age? He'll be 65 years old.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u377	We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 83 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 47. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Second proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Janez Janša to Mr Jank Weber's question on the policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia towards the Republic of Croatia. We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 48. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 48.]] No decision is taken. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr Janez Šuštersič, and Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žige Turka, to Mrs Tamara Vonta's question on the increase in VAT rates for newspapers, magazines and other periodical publications. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] No decision is taken. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žige Turka, to the question of mag. Majde Potrat in relation to the situation of students and students in acute conditions in higher education. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 46. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 46.]] No decision is taken. Next: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. Andrej Visiak on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] No decision is taken. Next decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Janez Šuštersič, to the question of Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišić on the management of bad bank claims. You want to explain your voice? Yeah. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u378	Thank you very much, President. The situation in the country is serious and chaotic. It's a matter of credibility. Mr Šuštersič speaks of a bad bank in 2009, as if this is the worst thing we are actually saying today that it is actually untransparent and bad for this country and for the balance sheet system, but especially for the economy. At the beginning of this mandate, Mr Šuštersič said that not a single euro would go from the budget to strengthening the stability of banks. Now we're talking four and a half billion to four billion. Well, look what you're doing! Finally, there is also a referendum at the door on this issue, on the bad bank and how the government will in fact stop the further decline in the capital adequacy of banks. If this happens, if the law cannot be enforced because of the referendum announced, it is said that this government must prepare itself to act. In fact, banks need to eliminate bank cramps, irrespective of the law that is in the process of adoption and procedure, banks need to reprogramme credits from those companies that show potential. They can do it today. Tomorrow can be too late. I therefore propose that a serious debate be held on this issue, taking into account experts on the other hand, which, of course, you do not take into account and do not listen to, not only on the opposition side, but also on the countries where they have already tried this bank. These are also experts in Ireland who do not take into account them. After all, you do not take into account the European Central Bank, which tells you that it is wrong to recapitalise banks with real money. And despite the bad bank, it will be necessary to recapitalise banks instead of putting the infusion directly into the vein of the economy. No, you're not gonna do that. You're going one of your ways, and I keep saying, you're going to find out too late that you were wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u379	We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 47. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 47.]] No decision is taken. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Radovan Žerjava to Mrs Alenka Pavlič's question on the effects of the Act on the promotion of the economy. Colleague Alenka Pavlič, explanation of vote, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u380	I will vote in favour of the debate in the National Assembly on the effects or the results of the necessary laws to resolve the economy, because the Slovenian economy is sinking deeper and the solution is not yet far from being seen. Because the government wants to carry out reforms by intimidating citizens. And because of the threat that there will be no money for wages, at the same time there are more than ten billion assets in the European Investment Bank, which unfortunately we do not know how to bring to Slovenia. The Ministry of the Economy has issued several package laws, the coalition has taken them into consideration, with enthusiasm and urgency. But the government can't save businesses, can't keep jobs, can't open new ones, can't raise social entrepreneurship. What worries me the most is that the overpriced will sell our parade horses economies through the Slovenian state holding company.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u381	Mr. Michael Prevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u382	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support this proposal for a simple reason, because I am afraid that in this general debate a similar scenario would be repeated, as it was illustrated yesterday, when asked this question by Mrs Pavlič. I think that last night the lady was gravely in violation of the possibility of asking questions from Members of Parliament, because she did not even ask such a question as the Minister was prepared with his answer, but she and the Minister went into a controversy that was full of insults, which was full of disrespect and also, I will say, of uncultured rhetoric. I do not think that this is proud of our national assembly, nor of the Members. Many of the viewers who looked at us yesterday were appalled by Mrs Alenka Pavlič's performance. I will personally, at the College of Parliamentary Groups, trigger this controversy and I will ask, and not only ask, for the leadership of the National Assembly and of all the Presidents to do everything they can to ensure that such insults and such rude behaviour and such abuse of the Institute of sent questions in this Parliament do not take place. Once again, I will vote against this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u383	We vote on the proposal for a decision. More explanations of voice, mag. Barbara Žgajnar Tavš and Mr Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u384	Thank you very much. I was in the Chamber yesterday when colleague Pavlič asked the right question to the Minister of Economy. The colleague wanted to receive an answer from a responsible minister, what were the effects of his policy in his field of expertise. In particular, she wanted to get an answer on how many new jobs the Minister has managed to re-open to this day, to ensure in the economy. A colleague of Pavlič received no reply from the Minister, and I would expect that it is also in the interests of the coalition Members to hold a debate on the Minister's response. We are all working to finally reach the point where we can say that the government has done only something about the economy, not only in the area of social rights cuts, in the area of savings. I will therefore support the colleague's proposal to hold a broader debate on the Minister's response in this national assembly, so that we may finally pour ourselves some pure wine and get answers about what the government is actually doing in the field of the labour economy. Not only will we listen to an apology, for God's sake, about what we are doing by the opposition Members, but we are warning how ineffective the government is when we are talking about the revenue side of the budget. I will absolutely support this proposal from my colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u385	Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u386	Thank you for your word. More than once, he appeared here in Positive Slovenia to discuss the economic situation, to discuss the opening of new jobs and so on. We've never been heard, probably today. However, in this explanation, I would not rely on the explanation given by my colleague Prevc, but I would say that the proposal for an extended discussion of this area was completely corrected by us or by my colleague Alenka. Look, as we have already discussed, many times it is very important what is happening to the economy. And all macroanalysis, which shows that economic growth will continue to decline in the coming years, is what we should be very worried about. In addition to all other things, this is, as we call alpha and omega to solve our country's crisis. That is why I will, of course, support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u387	Procedurally. Mr. Mitja Mershol, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u388	I propose, Mr President, that Member Prevc present to this assembly an analysis of the public opinion of television viewers of last night's event here in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u389	Thank you. We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] No decision is taken. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. Andrej Visiak, on the question of the delegation by Dr Andreje Črnak Meglič concerning the preparation of a strategy for the development of social entrepreneurship. Mrs. Andreja Črnak Meglič, an explanation, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u390	Thank you very much. It's a very benign proposal. So much when you're having trouble defining. The Social Entrepreneurship Act, as you know, was the only parliamentary law we have passed in the previous term, and also with your support, colleagues and colleagues from the opposition ranks, has been passed. Adopted with the hope that it will allow for the creation of new jobs in the field of social entrepreneurship. But things are going very slowly. One year after the strategy on the development of social entrepreneurship should be adopted, it is still missing. We are now hearing that it should be addressed by the Social Entrepreneurship Council. One year the Social Entrepreneurship Council did not work. I think, given that this is our law, that we have worked very hard to give some input to a new job opening, that it would be right to have a broad debate on this and perhaps each one of us will contribute to a real life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u391	We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 46. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 46.]] No decision is taken. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žige Turka, to Mrs Renate Brunskole's question on restrictions on the exercise of volunteer traineeships by teachers or educators or assistants of teachers and educators in kindergartens in Slovenia and the relationship between their personal incomes. Mrs. Renata Brunskole, please explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u392	Thank you very much. I propose that a general debate be held in connection with the question already raised by my Member State. The volunteer traineeship, for example, means carrying out a work of traineeships free of charge. However, at a time when young people do not have a job and have a traineeship, and in this way the possibility of seeking new jobs is of great importance, I do not think it is right that the number of volunteering by the Ministry of Education is limited. Why only 100 volunteer traineeships this year, 42 for assistant educators and 58 for the work of educators if we have a large number of unemployed? The disproportionateity of wages in kindergartens between the two mentioned differences of up to €500 is also worrying. The assistant educator receives 670 euros in salary, the teacher pays a thousand and 170 euros. The disproportionate is great, the responsibility of one and the other as well. They spend four to five hours a day together. I have proposed to the Minister that a general debate be held on the subject of pre-school education, which is why I would also suggest to you, colleagues and colleagues, that we help the Ministry of Education in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u393	We're voting. The 78 present is a Member and Members, with 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] No decision is taken. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr. Žige Turka, to the question of Mr Matjaž Zanoškar's delegation concerning the abolition of the regional units of the Institute for Education of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr. Matjaž Zanoškar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u394	Thank you for your word. As you know, the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport is preparing the reorganisation of the Institute for Education of the Republic of Slovenia. The Institute for Education of the Republic of Slovenia today has 9 exhibitions, i.e. 9 regional units throughout Slovenia, and with this reorganisation it wants to abolish 3 regional units. These three regional units are in Pomurje, Murska Sobota, Primorska, Koper, and Koroška, Slovenia. We find it very problematic that the abolition of these school units or these organisational units of the Institute of Education will extend to the areas of education and education, in pre-school work and in school work, in the sense that there will be no good professional support to carry out these tasks in individual regions. It is also worth mentioning that the two units that cancel out in Pomour and Koper are in bilingual territory, which is particularly problematic. It is also worth mentioning that the unit in Koroška, in Slovenj Gradc, which is being abolished, is a unit that works very well with neighbouring Austria, Wolfsberg, running joint projects. So the financial outlay of such a reorganisation is minimal, against the damage that would have been done with lasting consequences. I would therefore suggest that, in the reorganisation phase, in the planning phase of this reorganisation, we discuss this here in the National Assembly, and then the Ministry should decide whether it makes sense or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u395	We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 42. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 42.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žige Turka, to the question of mag. Alenke Bratušek in connection with the reorganisation of the secondary school network. Voice explanation, mag. Alenka Bratusek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u396	Thank you, Mr. President. What I asked the minister, you already said. It is a reorganisation of secondary schools in Kranj, something similar to that asked by Mr Prevc at the last meeting. What stabbed me was that Mr Prevc replied that this reorganisation was in line with the mayor of Kranj Municipality, Mr Bogotaj. I asked the mayor this question and his answer is, "No, I don't, I don't. I was just aware that we understand each other." A magnetogram of the municipal world. That's what the minister in this chair here at the National Assembly said was a lie, a lie. That's a fact, he was telling the truth and he was lying. But in addition, the distinguished president said yesterday also this: "I find it very difficult to assess what someone said," when I told him what the mayor said, "I have assured the director of my Directorate of the support of the Cranian mayor and I believe him more than you." In short, the minister put me on a lie. First of all, my proposal is to support the reorganisation of secondary schools, which not only take place in Kranj, but throughout Slovenia without any analysis. But I'll keep it procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u397	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 46. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 46.]] No decision is taken. Procedurally. Mag. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u398	Mr Virant, given that I have told you, for the first time, that the Minister, sitting there, lied to me, and for the second time, accused me of lying, I ask you, under which rule of the Rules of Procedure, you will, as you have protected yourself a little earlier, protect me or tell me, under which rule of the Rules of Procedure may I request an apology from the Minister. You allowed yourself this in the middle of a meeting, before the vote on a significant 4 billion heavy law on a bad bank. I didn't allow it because I think it's four billion more important than the Minister lying and putting me on the line. However, it is not for a waste, ladies and gentlemen, that your minister in this national assembly is lying and lying. And Mr Prevc, when you have a procedural proposal at the College, I ask that you also arrange it. Will ministers who deceive, speak false things, lie, suggest that they be freed?Oh, my God! Perhaps this would be good for democracy in Slovenia. I do, Mr President, ask you, in accordance with which article you will provide me with this apology, as you have assured yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u399	If I heard you correctly, you just asked for an apology on the basis of a provision of the Rules of Procedure that allows you to have a procedural question or a procedural proposal. If you wish to explicitly request this apology again, you can do so immediately. Just as I protected my integrity, when an insinuation was made, I had that right, I think every man has that right, you have that right. Here's the procedure. If you want, you can ask for an apology.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u400	No, I've already asked for an apology. I know I won't get it, because if the Minister allows it, I doubt he'll allow himself to apologize, but I would expect you, as president of the National Assembly, to take care of it. And if you have taken care of yourself past the Rules of Procedure, give it to us, even past the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u401	Look, I am not the absolute interpreter of truth, and when two Members or a minister and a Member of Parliament say diametrically the opposite, I am not the one who can judge, who speaks the truth and who does not speak the truth. Sometimes each one interprets certain facts in his own way. In my case, I probably already know whether the fact that was said is real or not. We turn to the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. Andrej Visiak asked Mrs Alenka Pavlič about the proposed regulation of occupational pensions. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] No decision is taken. We have two more conclusions. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Infrastructure and Space of Mr Zvonk Černač and the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Radovan Žerja on the question of Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišić on measures for the development of the economy, focusing on the construction sector and the construction of infrastructure projects. Explanation of the vote by Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u402	Thank you, Mr. President. I think that by our actions or by your governmental actions, we have literally achieved that we have destroyed the economic sector of construction. And since the loss of one job in construction means the loss of two jobs in related economic sectors, it is essential that this government launches large infrastructure investments to take advantage of all the opportunities and opportunities for funding from the European Structural Funds and Cohesion, as well as from the European Central Bank or the European Investment Bank. If we do not launch major projects, if I do not revive construction, the Slovenian economy is doomed to failure. Only the state and only this government has this opportunity to save this country in order to save our economy. Without economy and without economic growth, there is no stability of public finances and we cannot talk about the sustainability of public finances unless there is a stable and healthy economy. So what are you waiting for? Sanitation of banks will help, you know, if we wait too long? No one, because no company will be able to do credit. Someone told me by the coalition, and since there are foreign banks, they can hire a loan there, so why are we saving ours? Not only our banks, we also save the private owners of these banks at the expense of taxpayers. Wrong world! It's the wrong world, so it's the right thing to talk about. We ignore all experts, European, global and domestic. No, you're on your own. You'd have earned some Nobel Prize, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u403	We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 79 present, 33 to 46 votes in favour. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 44.]] No decision is taken. Finally: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. Andrej Visiak asked Mrs Renate Brunskole about the appointment of duty holders in the centres for social work in Slovenia and about staff exchanges in social security institutions before the end of the mandate. Mrs. Renata Brunskole, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u404	Thank you very much. Due to the unspecified strategy of reorganisation of social work centres, whose directors are sometimes confirmed and, in some cases, they only confirm the perpetrators of duties, which means that in demographicly threatened areas such as Pomurje, Koroška and Bela Krajina and elsewhere, where the higher unemployment rate in Slovenia and the greater hardship of people, the social work centres will be abolished and centralised into larger urban centres. They also point to such behaviours in the Community of Centres for Social Work of Slovenia, highlighting the legality of the implementation of procedures or such appointments, sometimes directors for the entire mandate, sometimes not directors but only performers of duties. With regard to these appointments, as well as the appointment of members of the boards of institutions in the homes of older persons by the founder, this is the State, there has been some discharge of members before the expiry of the term of office, irrespective of the law of 2009, which has determined that by the end of the term they will be more numerous councils of institutions and will later be in a reduced number. These discharges were without justification and at the same time new members were appointed by the government, but of course this time closely linked to coalition parties. With regard to such measures, I propose that the Ministry of Labour and Government, and with regard to such reorganisations of social work centres, be held in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-10-23-SDZ6-Redna-07.ana.u405	We vote on the proposal for a decision. There's 77 in attendance, 32 in front of 44. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 44.]] No decision is taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 7th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night!
