ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, distinguished visitors and visitors, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 5th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 60(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. There are no excuses for today's session. I invited the candidate for President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the 1st item of the agenda, the President of the Council of Justice to the 6th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 5th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 27 January 2012, with the reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of a single item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda, so I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be set the agenda as you have received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. I ask colleagues and colleagues to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 84 votes against 2. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the agenda for the 5th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been adopted. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for the election of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Group of 50 Members and Members, with the first signed Jozet Tank, proposed to the National Assembly on 25 January 2012 that Mr Janez Janša be elected President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the candidate for the Prime Minister of the Government to present the Government's programming designs in accordance with paragraph 227 of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Jansha.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u2	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, esteemed High Council, respected citizens and citizens! The times are serious, but they are not extraordinary, yet this moment certainly does not require some thrilling speeches and promises that cannot be fulfilled. Given that our constitutional order provides for the appointment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in two steps, it is said, first the election of the President of the Government and then the vote on the Government, allow me to also make our presentation of the programme and the assessment of the state of play on which this programme is written in two parts. This would focus today on the assessment of the situation and on some of the principles on which we built measures to improve this situation in our coalition contract. After presenting the government team – if I get your trust today – I will also present on behalf of the coalition a more detailed government programme that we agreed on in the coalition contract. Let me say that the priorities of this mandate are perfectly clear. In fact, they would be the same for any government that would take control of the executive power at that time. It is about stabilising public finances, relaunching economic growth and consequently creating new jobs. Inside these three priorities, everything else is covered. Given that the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development presented a new extraordinary winter assessment of the situation, which, unfortunately, is worse or more pessimistic than the already promising autumn assessment, allow me to present it first with the help of – I hope that this will be seen on the screen – graphic presentations, an environment in which Slovenia places executive power after extraordinary elections. The first picture shows the deterioration of economic prospects for the European Monetary Union, for the euro area, for an area of which Slovenia is also a part since January 2007. As you can see, in recent months the outlook for growth has deteriorated dramatically and this year's euro area is, unfortunately, the outlook for recession. This projection or this forecast for the euro area is of course important because Slovenia is integrated into the common European internal market, because it is part of the common currency area and because the problems facing our common currency are called the euro, also our problems. The following is a winter forecast of the government office for Slovenia for this year, as well as a 2013 projection, as well as an assessment of the 2010 and 2011 growth. If we had 1.4% of economic growth in 2010, and if this fell to only half a percent last year, the forecast is even less favourable this year, the growth of two tenths of a percent is forecast to be 0.2%. It must be said, however, that the forecasts of some external or international financial institutions are even more pessimistic. The following illustration also shows the main reason why the predictions for Slovenia are such. It is clear that Slovenia has recorded during the crisis in recent years the third largest drop in gross domestic product in Europe and that only Lithuania and Greece are ahead of us. Of course, this fall cannot be made up overnight because it has multiple consequences. In the next example, state statistics, or Umar and Eurostat data show a strong growing uncertainty in financial markets. That thick red curve is the price of the premium on Slovenia's long-term ten-year bond, which is somewhere at Italian level. The highest curve is Hungary, below us, according to the better, Slovakia and, the falling curve is Germany, which is clearly progressing in these times of crisis. The following display also shows how we were encouraged by our indebtedness. After yesterday's fall or a drop in Slovenia's credit rating, even with the third rating agency, this figure, which is now almost 7%, is likely to be even higher. One of the structural reasons for such a situation and for the fall of gross domestic product in crisis years in Slovenia is seen in the following illustration, which shows the investment weakness or weakness of investment activities mainly due to construction congestion, and also when it comes to investments, even in other sectors more or less stagnation or decline. This is also reflected in the deterioration of the labour market situation. The above curve shows a drop in the number of employees in the country and the lower red curve shows an increase in the number of unemployed in the country in recent years. The next display also shows this in numbers. Since 2010, including 2010 there has been a picture since this year, the number of employees has fallen, such are forecasts for this year and unfortunately for the second year as well, while the number of unemployed is rising and the forecast for the second year is almost 120,000 unemployed. The following is probably the main structural reason for weakness, and sometimes it is negative, activity in the economy. These columns show the net financial flow between banks or financial institutions and companies in Slovenia. The first column shows this trend in 2008 when the Slovenian economy received almost 4.5 billion more credit flows from financial institutions. In previous years, this flow was between 2 billion and 4 billion. In just one year, it's said overnight, this net flow has fallen to less than 100 million euros, but it's still positive in 2009. In 2010, the Slovenian economy had already paid nearly half a billion more money to banks than it had received from financial services, and this negative growth or trend continued in last year. The data is until November. Until then, more than 200 million euros have gone from the economy to the banks than vice versa. This is a graphic representation of what is called a credit spasm in a popular language. And when you see these numbers, it's not an imaginary phrase. The following is a picture of the gap in public finances between budgetary revenue and expenditure. Total budgetary expenditure was lower than revenue in 2008, and the situation deteriorated dramatically in the following year and so was in 2010 and 2011. If I mentioned the word stabilising public finances earlier, then you also have a picture here in front of you that shows why this stabilisation is necessary. The former government has taken certain measures to make things better or at least not to make things worse. The following is a representation of the share of the budget deficit in the gross domestic product. As you can see, these efforts have not produced any tangible fruitage, although it must always be said that if certain measures were not taken, the situation could be even worse. The next picture is what represents a relative comparison and at the same time represents one of the key factors on the basis of which credit rating agencies assess trends or financial stability, the public financial stability of individual countries. Here you can see that our share of public debt in gross domestic product is still below 6%, which is the criterion of the Stability and Growth Pact in the European Union. What is worrying is that red part of our debt, which shows the share that arose during the crisis. And here you can see that between the four countries in which this debt has increased dramatically over the last three, four years. Next to us are Greece, Ireland and Latvia. By thinking that we are the only one besides Ireland, where this share of the debt that has been incurred in recent years is greater than any debt that the country has had since previous periods. The last picture is a graphic illustration of what has been said many times in recent years to be the reasons for the necessity of pension reform. It shows the share and projection of these shares for the coming years until 2025, young people up to the age of fourteen, then the active population up to the age of 64 and 65 and the upper red population over the age of 65. Although this picture is similar to many trends in other European countries, it shows that Slovenia will not be able to afford non-action. However, it also shows that there are no drastic curves and trends of deterioration, and that, as we have been saying throughout 2015, the year 2015 begins when some improvements in our pension system are needed, but without any very drastic changes, this system will adapt to demographic images, which will almost certainly be the same as projected here. Here you can also see that the decline in fertility in Slovenia has stopped and stabilized in 2005 so that the proportion of young people does not fall, but thanks to the extension of the working age, thank God, the proportion of the older population is increasing, which for a long time thereafter receives income for the past work from the pension system. The whole situation that has been shown here could go into even more detail, only now there is no time for it, and the illustration has been sufficiently controlled. Let me also reiterate that this is all official data of Eurostat's state statistics and a display without any intervention as was given by the Government's Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development. So it's the only data that exists and is credible. We could add some other images and images to that, but I think it's enough to get around to seeing where we are. To improve or change this situation, I think it is crucial that we reach at least a high level of agreement on the assessment of the situation. If, for the most part, we do not agree where we are, then there is no point in discussing measures to improve the situation. With regard to these comparisons, in support of the fact that I initially said that the situation was serious, but it is not extraordinary, some additional numbers. You won't see them on the graph, but I don't think that's necessary because it's a very simple comparison. Slovenia already had its own statehood completely rounded up in 2005 and we have not yet entered the Schengen area, which required some additional costs, a budget spending of €7.2 billion. 7.2 billion euros Slovenia spent, did not project in the budget, I am talking about a closing account, spent in one year. And there was no crisis. We had a problem with unemployment back then. In 2005 there were 22 000 500 unemployed in Slovenia. Only 20,000 less than today. We had a budget spending of 7.2 billion euros. Last year we had about 110 000 or 111 000 unemployed and budget spending, an estimate of 9.6 billion euros. 2.4 or almost two billion and a half more last year's spending than it was in 2005, given that the key problem is unemployment, and therefore the increase in social transfers, usually referred to as the argument for this spending, should not represent substantially more than EUR 200 million. Not two billion and a half. Indeed, the number of employees in the public sector has increased by more than 10 000 in the last seven, eight years in Slovenia, according to today's Appes data. From around 150 000 employees in the public sector at the end of 2004, we reached 160,000 employees at the end of 2010 and February 2011. So, 10,000 more employees in the public sector. Given that fertility has increased, certain employment in child care is certainly justified. Given that there are more elderly people, some jobs in this sector are certainly justified, but this does not amount to 10 000. Even if we include some of the commitments we have received from the EU, let's say the preservation of the Schengen border. If we put all the objective reasons on the pile, maybe 2,000 people can do it, but not 10,000 people can do it. I am not just talking about the previous government, I am talking about the state of affairs of the last seven, eight years and more, which has contributed significantly to the increase in the number of employees in the public sector. In fact, the key information that explains many of these images that you have seen is the fact that in 2008 120 thousand people worked in Slovenia more than today. 60 000 more Slovenian citizens who were employed and about 60 000 more foreigners. In 2008, more than 90 000 foreigners worked with work permits in Slovenia. Today, there are more than 30 000 of these, so it is said that 60,000 unemployed Slovenian citizens who have lost their jobs in these three years should be added to some 60 thousand who are no longer working today. Foreign workers do not pay all the contributions and do not fill the same budget as citizens, but create just as new value, they are consumers and so on, in short, they are a plus in a double sense, so this drop of up to 60 000, on the round, in these budgets, is known when it comes to revenue, and nothing has prevented the increase in expenditure. Given that we will take some more detailed measures to improve this situation – I will present some later, and in full the second phase of the appointment of the government, if we get your trust today – let me say something about the principles. Given that I do not think there is any doubt that the situation as shown here and as it has been prolonged for the last three years can in some way not last, and this situation will have to be changed, it is very important that we first agree on certain principles. The first principle that the coalition will apply in the future is the principle that breaks down this largely rooted prejudice in Slovenia, which, according to local say, is: the economy is creating, the public sector is spending – the economy is the only one that is worthy of attention. Of course it doesn't. The public sector is also needed. The economy cannot without personnel coming from schools, the economy cannot without quality health care, nor can society as a whole. Finally, sport and culture can be a major promotion of the national economy in a certain sense. In addition to material things, life has a cultural and spiritual dimension. Even if there were no effects on the economy, we cannot talk about the public sector as a social parasite. Nevertheless, balance is important. Economic activity and the public sector must be balanced. It is not possible to have a public sector that cannot be financed, no matter how certain needs or requirements are justified. We can do this for a short period of time by borrowing, which has also been done, not only in the last three years, even before, during the period of Slovenia alone and even before, but not for a longer period of time. This is even less so when a Member State is a single or common European internal market, a member of the euro area, and at a time when the rules of the game are exacerbated by the problems of the euro area and our common currency in these associations. I would like to draw attention here to some structural problem that this country has and that we do not actually face many times because somehow - I don't know why, maybe you will explain it to yourself - falls out of the picture of various statistics; probably because all these statistics are done by sociologists. The data show that in Slovenia we have trained about five times as many sociologists in the first 15 years of independence as journalists, philosophers, lawyers, economists, although we cannot count them exclusively in this sector as engineers. When our government visited a major company in central Slovenia in the previous term, I think it was in 2007, the director of this company told us that a month earlier they had announced a call for three jobs. They were looking for two engineers and one business secretary or business secretary. For two registered engineering sites, they received one offer. For one registered office, the secretary or secretary received 800 offers, including people with a doctorate, for the salary required, I think, of a higher school. This is just an information that illustrates this step that we have structurally created in Slovenia. Similarly, there was a lack of consistency in vocational education. At the time of the merger in 2007, 2008 Slovenian companies were looking for qualified workers with lights on a white day and could not get them. And then people from the professions, where they didn't get jobs, then they reclassified as welders, machine tools and so on. There were plenty of these extra programs. Of course, it was an emergency solution. Slovenia needs both good lawyers, journalists, doctors, teachers, economists and engineers. However, this number must be in some balance. There can be no one profile from the school system financed by taxpayers that comes more than five times as much as needs, since people cannot work on the European market as well. As you know, it is very difficult, it is relatively easy for an engineer or computer science to get a job anywhere in Europe. But it's extremely difficult for a philosopher, a journalist or someone else in the social profession, of course, in his profession. Many people find themselves out of this and thank God. This is our structural problem, which we cannot solve overnight, which cannot be addressed by the appointment of a new government. Since 2006, in our mandate, because the government has agreed to the places of entry of Slovenian universities funded by public funds, each year we have increased the entry into technical and natural orientation by 20%, but then this trend has deteriorated again a little. I must say that private higher education institutions which were established in Slovenia at the time of independence were mostly not in the technique, but also in the society, which increased the number of staff. Like I said before, this is our big structural problem. It is true, however, that this has not only been done by Slovenia, that such negative trends have also occurred in some other European countries, that this is not just about our internal reasons. There was also a philosophy in Europe and the world, all from the mid-90s, that only a society that has not only a strong but a dominant service sector, especially financial services, was developed, but not a company that has a strong industry and concrete production. And even to us, when we entered the European Union and then the European Monetary Union and also the OECD, as an indicator of development, they have always made a comparison of how much industry contributes to our gross domestic product and how much services. They said you were weak here. Then came the financial and economic crisis. Things are a little different today. If you had seen earlier that picture of how many countries were affected by this crisis, on the one hand we had Greece, Ireland. Ireland has been set for a decade and a half as an example of a country with a strong service sector that has in fact left industrial production and went to services, especially financial ones. But it was these countries that were most affected by this crisis. On the other hand, you have seen Germany and Poland, which have a strong industrial sector. Poland has always seen this, even more than we do, and in fact services are underdeveloped, but still the balance in favour of specific production, products that can be sold in that part of the global world, where there is no crisis, is significantly better than vice versa. And this has not only been shown in Ireland, it is now also shown in the UK, which has significantly better performances and is a larger country and has, I will say, centuries-old reserves, but because of this ratio of contributions from different sectors to gross domestic product is significantly more affected than Germany or Poland. Slovenia must urgently turn here to some balance, to some competitive production or better said creation. Creation is not just a matter of making, but the greatest added value is, say, design in industry and so on. There are huge niches here, but this requires long-term structural changes in Slovenia, which we have not talked about much so far or have always avoided. And these changes must begin in education first. If we don't create a balance here, then it won't be in production either. This change is not just a change in the number of places of entry to individual orientations, which need to be more balanced, but also a different focus across the education system. This emphasis must come from the fact that students, students, students are required to know a great deal, that they are required to use this knowledge, that they are more innovative, that they are more creative. After all, Slovenia has taken steps here, not by owning a bad school system, but also the world has moved on here at a high speed and needs to adapt. We also need to become competitive in innovation and creation, not just in favour. This, of course, requires further emphasis in Slovenian social policy. The social or social situation itself in which a person is born, or the fact that someone is born somewhere on the outskirts of the periphery, must not represent the exclusion criteria for whether a young person succeeds in life or not. Slovenia has instruments with which this gap is milder but not sufficiently developed and often is not sufficiently at the forefront. We are not talking about a society of equality, because it is not possible to create you, but we are talking about a society of equal starting points, in which it is, then, from how someone uses these options, how much they work, how innovative they are, how good and diligent they are, how much he invests himself and his own knowledge, how he will succeed in life, what status he will achieve, what material prosperity and so on. It must also be borne in mind that ensuring equal starting points is not just a social policy, it is rather than a social policy to invest society long-term in its better future. Of course, when we talk about the structure of contributions to Slovenia's gross domestic product, there is nowhere else, not only in industry. Also in services, such as education. Slovenia represents an extremely good environment for young people who would gather knowledge here because the standard of living is relatively high because we are in a good geostrategic position because Slovenia is a peaceful and safe country. However, to take advantage of these advantages here, we need a much more open and competitive education system. If we look at a scale of countries that make the most of it by teaching foreign students on the basis of such an open education system, then we can see that we are still very far behind. Of course, we also need to see where we were successful even during the crisis and see where we can draw even more with some minimal additions or highlights. One of these areas is tourism. Tourism grew last year, or revenues from tourism activities in Slovenia grew from 10% last year to the ground, which has grown by about that much in spite of the crisis. Here the results of investments in tourism infrastructure have been shown to a large extent through European funds, I think somewhere since 2002, when we received those first significant funds as a candidate for the European Union. This is evidence that good investments in some good governance of the area can also produce good results. In addition to these fundamental changes that must take place in Slovenia, because it must reach agreement in Slovenia and then also for realisations and where the results will not be overnight, this goes beyond the programme of the mandate of one government, and this must start and this is the topic of the intergenerational and social agreement and also of the development partnership, is said to be political cooperation. In addition to these things that we must do for our long-term future, we also have to take action immediately. If you don't survive in the short term, even long-term planning doesn't make any sense, it's just a waste of time. Among these measures, as I mentioned at the outset, we are urgently needed this year – because money is simply gone and we cannot borrow it for an acceptable price – there is savings, savings due to the stabilisation of public finances, to raise the country's ratings, to be treated differently in international financial markets, and that we can finally get fresh money for the infrastructure projects that Slovenia urgently needs and cannot finance them at an acceptable price. Secondly, these short-term measures include measures to create a better environment for entrepreneurship and consequently for economic growth and jobs, in this order. When we talk about saving, it is inevitable that, as far as possible, the so-called soft way to achieve synergies when we have better public sector services, including public administrations, for lower costs. The first measure in this type is the reorganisation, in particular the merger of similar institutions. I was in the first two Slovenian governments, somewhere until the beginning of 1994, I think that at the time in early 1994 Slovenia rounded its own statehood, we had all the institutions necessary for us to function as an independent state and society. At the time, 40 or 45 thousand people were employed in the Slovenian public sector. Of course, there were new needs at that time, standards had increased, but not by 45 thousand. There is an urgent need to pool similar institutions and it is essential, when it comes to the structural allocation of public sector funds, to devote more to activities and less to bureaucracy. And that's the purpose of this reorganization. Slovenia has a good 2 million inhabitants, 2 million 550 thousand. You can get all our ministries into one Pentagon building in America. The cabinets and offices of some heads of government, not the biggest ones, are more numerous than half our ministries combined. Here are the big reserves of this reorganisation. Slovenia must be aware of both its advantages and its limitations. Germany grew by 3% last year, despite the fact that we were all talking about the crisis. Slovenia grew by half a percent. Germany had 6 times more economic growth than Slovenia last year, by increasing public spending, the Germans cut it, despite having 3% economic growth. In three years we fell from 91% of the European average by purchasing power per capita to 85.86%. We've come to a pre-crisis level in some relative comparison. This did not just happen because of actions that were not there or that we had warned about or because of some mistakes. It also happened because of all of these structural problems that began to be created in Slovenia or we did not solve them from the independence ahead and about which I spoke in part earlier. Now let us go back to this comparison between the 6th-largest growth in Germany and Slovenia last year. Are the Germans 6 times more capable of us? I'm sure they didn't. Do they work six times more? No, definitely not. The average Slovenian worker works just as hard and good as the average German worker. There may be some minimal differences, but you can see what percentages of productivity and added values are, but there are no drastic differences here, at least not in the economy. True, there are great differences in the environment. In Germany, you need to solve an economic dispute, if someone has not paid you, you are an entrepreneur, and someone has not paid you a service, on average, for one year. In Slovenia, the average time to resolve the economic dispute is four years. Four years according to official information. 1290 days exactly. In Germany 4 times less and even in Europe in general, this is significantly different, so that we have a substantial number of people in the labour court to the relative number of inhabitants than the Germans. We have one sector that is not effective here, and this is the biggest problem, significantly larger than many others, which are also emerging in the public eye in this sector. At the end of the presentation of certain principles and the course of action, I would also say that this dilemma, whether a government is more social or less social, has been exceeded in Europe or with some European standards and criteria for some fifteen years. The European Union has united with the Lisbon Strategy, even before we stepped into it, that far the best social policy, which is also sold as a European social model or its essence, is such a social policy, which is a policy of creating new jobs where people get a fair pay for honest work. The emphasis of any serious state social policy must be on enabling people to get a job and a fair payment, not charity. And here we have some major structural problems. One of these is that the payment or remuneration for a non-work is close to what is paid for the minimum wage. If the stimulation for working is about the same as stimulation for not working, then it's clear where the motivational moment is. I am not talking about the fact that the minimum wage is too large, I am talking about the need to make an effort to raise it, and this structural imbalance will be resolved. The measures taken by the European Union at this time also go in this direction. Mr Pahor is leaving on Monday for the informal European Council. Certain guidelines are also being prepared for the March meeting. In addition, where there are no urgent crisis meetings, the European Union is always engaged in a real internal market, two things. One focus is on measures that will increase the employment of young people, even if they continue to work for a certain period of time, so that young people will have experience at all, so that they can then write in their requests that they have already worked, that they are not beginners, that they have an internship. The European Union divides a whole range of measures in this direction. Another emphasis is on finding a solution to create the most favourable conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. At both points, Slovenia must also take greater steps in the future. And if this is gonna be a European agenda, that's better. In doing so, I must say that the agreement of all parliamentary party presidents at the meeting convened by Mr Borut Pahor is that some anchors are also being built in the Slovenian Constitution that will prevent society from entering structural imbalances, one of the great promises that we are slowly coming to an understanding in Slovenia of what needs to be done. Not only until we know, but also to internally unifying some assessment of the situation and those urgent measures. To be aware that in the long term, and now not even in the medium or short term, we will not be able to spend more than we create. And I agree with those who say or say that the solution is not in savings. We need saving at the beginning to put things within the right framework in order to stabilise public finances. And that doesn't mean the system is falling apart. Slovenia functioned normally when our public consumption was less than eight billion. No system broke down at the time. Some things even worked better than they did today. So it's not all about the money. We need to be aware of where these limits are. And if we write down some anchors, it is not necessarily the same as we talked about in the Subjector. The government has already made some additional proposals, but these anchors need to be written down. And if it's in the Slovenian Constitution, then it's also a signal to everyone that it's not going through. If we just put it in the law, it's not enough because the law can change quickly and the constitution can't. Moreover, such a constitutional change at this time is the far strongest signal for Slovenia, which can be sent to Europe and to the world, that we think seriously that Slovenia will stabilise its public finances. And this signal will contribute more than just to the appointment of a government or to the end of political instability, so that access to resources, not just for the country, is also open to our banks in European markets or European financial institutions, or that the price of money will be re-acceptable for us. I propose that no matter how other things go, we conclude these negotiations as soon as possible and make this change. At the end of the day, allow me a few extras. I might as well say requests. As you know, the coalition of five parties has aligned the coalition contract. In this coalition agreement, as one of the fundamental measures, the steps we need to take to rationalise our functioning in order to reduce the functioning of the country, also foresees a reduction in the number of ministries. This rationalization can't be achieved without you starting at the top. To do just that, it's only meant to bring together some of the departments, the ministry, is too small. I agree with those of you who say if that's all you're gonna do, it probably didn't even pay off. That's absolutely true. However, if you do not start at the summit, it is not possible to make this rationalisation downhill, so it is absolutely necessary. Nevertheless, some of the warnings that have come, especially I think about this petition from cultural circles, are taken seriously. In doing so, we report that the purpose of this government, as I have said before, is to reduce the funds for bureaucracy, because it is only so possible to increase the funds for creation and for activity, and this has nothing to do with how any ministry is allocated. We are not shutting down any ministries, but it is true that some of the resources are being merged because we will be looking for synergies because they need to be searched. As a result of the creation of new institutions, over 50 state and parastatal institutions have been created in the last seven, eight years, the number of employees in the public sector has increased, not only because of this, but mainly because of this, by 10,000! And that can't be financed unless everyone agrees to go to a balancing board, that wages are reduced by a third, and that they suffer the quality of services; I don't think anyone wants that. We will do our best to reject these fears and those warnings that we respect and which now stem from a traditional view of the Slovenians of a culture that needs to be further respected. However, I appeal to all that, given that the Government Act has been passed, even though it was not possible to change it just before the beginnings, because the structure stems from a coalition contract, which is a law for the coalition and if it changes it, it must call on the parties' representatives' bodies, and the appeals that were just before the vote, if you do so, they simply could not be heard. However, the coalition will examine this structure, which we have proposed in the Government Act, taking into account the professional concerns and criteria that have emerged – I repeat, professional, not political, because we have all the right to political differences and there will never be a common denominator – and, if necessary, correct or change this decision. Nevertheless, the basic structure that we have proposed is roughly the same as that proposed by all other parties in the electoral campaign. I remember these encounters, and it was everyone who was bidding on how many ministries they would reduce. It is necessary to leave it to the government that is emerging if it has the confidence to organize itself as it thinks it is right. Every coalition has changed the Government Act so far, every coalition has gone into reorganisation here, no coalition has ever gone into such a contraction as we have, but it is necessary. And no opposition, despite the fact that many times it did not agree, has we been in this role many times, then the emerging government has not resorted to procedural procedures to delay the implementation of such a law. I have been in the Slovenian Parliament since 1990, when I was first elected, I have always been there, there have never been such attempts, even though we did not agree. Any debate is absolutely legitimate, of course it is also legitimate to use the instruments by which the enforcement of this law is carried out, so to speak, constitutional opinions and so on, but nevertheless it is necessary to know what the consequences are. Every day when we don't appoint governments, we can count on about €10 million in additional costs. And that's what you need to know. Even if someone thinks that the government's work will be without these complications, I can comfort him in the beginning not to. As you have seen, there was no euphoria at the time of the signing of the coalition agreement, and we did not open any champagne. The picture previously presented, which is a summary of the government's assessment of the government's existing government, is such that we can only succeed with these key measures if we work together, and that is also my appeal. As we have also stated in the coalition contract, this coalition will offer you a draft, political development partnership for all opposition parties and also a proposal for a new social and intergenerational agreement for all social partners. We're already working on drafts here. Our aim is to try first to unify our views on the situation, where we are, and what key measures we need to take, no matter what government it is. We want the social partners to see the whole forest, not just individual trees, to see exactly what the price will be if we take one measure today, and what the price will be if we have to take it in three years. All this information will be available through a reasoned debate. Before the government makes systematic changes, it will try to reach this agreement. We have periods in recent years when we have been successful in this, and there is no reason why we should not repeat these positive practices. I also promise in advance that if the government is created, it will not compete in the indictment of the previous government. That doesn't make any sense. We know the opposition always has, here I say, more free hands, and I have no problem with that. But it is, as I said at the beginning, a situation even though it's not extraordinary, it's serious. And just how effective and able we are to cooperate depends on whether this situation is stabilised and normalised again or whether it will become exceptional in this respect, as in Ireland, Portugal or Greece. At that time, you will receive packages on the parliamentary bench, as received by the Greek Members, where the requirements of the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank and the European Commission were simply written, as far as the highest pension can be, as much as any part of the public sector can be employed. And until they accepted it, the state didn't get any fresh money and it was before the bankruptcy. Slovenia does not need to come into this situation. We're not there yet. However, there is not much time and the time for action is immediately. These few months we have to look at the big picture together and then decide on individual measures will be extremely valuable. As has already been said, it will be necessary to unify ourselves about where we are, and then also about those measures that are inevitable and for which it is better to take them alone than to be dictated by someone else. As long as we accept them ourselves, we can make our own decisions about the ways in which we can reach these goals. Otherwise, it'll be different. I promise that if you give me support and confidence today, and in the next phase of the appointment or procedure, the ministerial team proposed by the coalition will offer a deadline for cooperation to all and also work for the common good. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u3	I thank the candidate for the Prime Minister for this presentation. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. First, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Karl Erjavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u4	Honourable President of the National Assembly, dear Members and Members of Parliament, nice greetings! I also particularly welcome all those who accompany this meeting of the National Assembly here from the balcony. Of course, greetings go to all the viewers in front of TV screens. The DeSUS party is a responsible party and we therefore supported the relative winner on 11 January because the constitutional principle and the principle of democracy speak of the need to give an opportunity to the relative winner. We have followed the proposal of the President of the country, but unfortunately the candidate has not received the appropriate support. This also caused a lot of problems for Desus. We are faced with a serious dilemma — whether a different government is being formed with different support or opening the way for early elections. At DeSUS, we assessed that early elections would be a real disaster for Slovenia. You see what's happening in these days that we lost our ratings again yesterday, because we don't have some kind of political stability. I would not talk about economic indicators themselves, because the candidate for a mandate holder has already told us in his introduction where we are, what these figures are, so I think we have a very difficult job ahead of us. And not only those who have signed the coalition treaty, but also those who are sitting here in the National Assembly and have not signed the coalition treaties. Personally, I am convinced that in this very difficult situation in which Slovenia is located, the best solution would be to form a so-called large coalition. It is said that the two most powerful parties take responsibility and try to save Slovenia. We may not even be fully aware of the situation we are in. One is numbers, the other is real life. During the pre-election campaign, I have to say that I have visited a lot of places and I have seen what the economic, financial crisis means. Especially if we look at our pensioners, those who survive with 300, 400 maybe 500 euros a month. They feel this crisis the most. This is why DeSUS is responsible to them. If we did not decide to go to the so-called crisis exit coalition, there would actually be early elections that would not solve anything. We had early elections and what happened. It has been shown that Slovenian political space is divided, that it is about half-half and that DeSUS is always the party that somehow decides what kind of coalition it will be, what kind of government it will be. This is why we are often the target of criticism, even at the moment. I have to say, I get all kinds of writings. Some strongly criticise us that this decision is the issue of an elective body, but I also receive many letters, in particular those pensioners who have €300.400, that we have just decided that it is necessary to protect their interests, that it is necessary to protect Slovenia, that something needs to be done in order to achieve economic growth, new jobs in order to give the future to young people. That is why we believe in the party DeSUS that Slovenia needs action at the moment, needs action, we need all that new jobs bring. Nothing helps us reform, nothing helps us save if we don't create. And this should be the task, not only of governments, not only of this national assembly, but also of social partners. And here I expect that the social partners will also be so constructive that they will be aware that we are sailing on a common ship and that only through cooperation will we be able to achieve good results. I think we need to stop these ideological conflicts at this time. This was an important guide for the party DeSUS when we entered into a coalition agreement. When we first spoke with the candidate for the mandate, we said first that this coalition and the coalition treaty should not be burdened with ideological themes. Sometimes it seems that these ideological themes are in front of other subjects, as if living somewhere in paradise, that all citizens have everything they need for everyday life, with the main point of political conflict just ideologically fighting. That's why we said at the DeSUS party that we're going to this coalition to get out of the crisis, because that's the only thing we're interested in is how to get out of this crisis, provided there's no ideological themes. We are aware that these themes will open up because some are in the interest and in favour of putting these themes first, even though we know that these themes bring nothing, bring only hatred, bring only indignation. We have thus agreed that the constitutional principle regarding the separation of the church from the state must be consistently respected, that the values of the national liberation fight must be respected, that history must be stopped, that we should leave it to historians, the government, politics and the national assembly have a more important task. How can we get Slovenia out of this very difficult situation? In the DeSUS Group of Members, we will support the candidate for the mandate, as we also supported on 11 January. I hope that this support is expressed. If this support is not available, it means that we are going into an even deeper political crisis, which means we are going to early elections. In doing so, I would point out that even if early elections were to take place, I do not believe that we would get a political government composed of the result of these early elections. I think that we are sinking so quickly as the country, in particular as regards macroeconomic indicators, that before the elections were even carried out, before the government was ever elected, we would have already obtained a compulsory administration from Brussels, the European Union or representatives of these financial institutions. This would be the worst solution for Slovenia. That's why I'm saying DeSUS is a state-owned party. We are aware of these problems and therefore we think that we should all be constructive together. I am very pleased that the President of Positive Slovenia said a day ago that he would be a constructive opposition. That inspires me with optimism. I would be even more pleased if the Social Democrats signed a partnership for development, for cooperation, where they would try to reconcile the most difficult things together, together with the social partners and actually take the steps that Slovenia needs. Look, we all need to be aware that once there is one in power, the other is in power, and that, because of these conflicts, we must not bring the country into bankruptcy, but must step together for those measures that are urgently needed so that we can all live better together. It is necessary to know that once there is one, the other is in government, in power, and that is perfectly normal – democratic. I don't know why you laugh in Positive Slovenia. Do you expect us to run this country for another 20 years? That would be bad. I say, four years, eight years, that's the most appropriate thing, which is more, but only corruption is developing. We saw what happened to one client. Some of you were even members of this party, so you know your story very well. No, no, they're setting me up. As far as the coalition agreement is concerned. I must say that we are very pleased that we have succeeded with our interests. See, in 2013, it is ensured that if there is an intervention law, it will not affect pensioners. I think this is a good achievement for the party DeSUS, which represents the interests of the poorest pensioners, not those who have higher pensions than some pay and then write around how the client DeSUS issues pensioners. I believe that those who have a thousand 500 euros in pensions, and if there is anything else in civil society, do not care what kind of government is and always seek benefits more for some of their partial interests than for those who are truly struggling to live. We are very happy about this flat-rate for businesses, especially small businesses, craftsmen and so on. We believe that this measure will bring new jobs. I am very pleased that our initiative has been adopted, as it was adopted in both coalition treaties, so that I also commend Zoran Jankovic in this place because he also had a hearing, for example for young people, that we will subsidise the internship. I think this is an urgent measure. Look, those young people who are capable will leave Slovenia as soon as possible. Today the labour market is open and those who know something, have no problem, can go to Austria, to Germany, to France. But we have to keep this young potential here. In the party DeSUS, we are very well aware that if young people do not have a future here in Slovenia, then the elderly also have no future. How are we going to fill the pension register? In the coalition treaties I like very much that we have a number of measures that will encourage the creation of new jobs. As it is said, only new jobs will contribute to Slovenia being able to finance everything that a normal country has to finance, from education, health, social security, not least the public administration, because without it the state cannot function. In the DeSUS party, given that we had a very thorough and very deep debate on what to do in this situation, the view prevailed that we were going to the exit and crisis coalition and trying to protect the interests of the most difficult-to-live pensioners. This is certainly one of the most endangered social groups in our country and also one of the most numerous. I think this is our mission. You're all saying that DeSUS is not a political party at all, but that it's a housing organization. And if we're a housing organization, then we really have no choice but to go where all these things are decided. I think that this decision will help to strengthen the social state, to strengthen the situation of pensioners, not to speak of health care. We have also achieved here that there is a consistent spread of what public health is, what belongs to a person who has paid medical contributions for 40 years and then becomes ill, what treatment belongs to him, and that private health care is strictly separated from public health. I must say and assess that these negotiations on the coalition treaty and these objectives for the exit from the crisis have been successful. I appreciate that if we achieve these goals, then Slovenia will have a better future. But I am aware that this is the path to hell that will be very difficult, and I hope that we will all come out of this hell together. Even the government, if appointed, after receiving support from the candidate for the term of office. Once again, I want success for the mandate holder and that he will be appointed today and that we will come to a strong government as soon as possible, because Slovenia can now save only a strong government that has strong coalition support, but at the same time, as I said, I also expect good cooperation from the Positive Slovenia, by the Social Democrats, by the unions, and then I think we have better times. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u5	Thank you, Comrade Erjavec, for presenting the position of the Group of Members and also for taking care of a little good will and laughter as usual. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, he shall have the word mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian People's Party took part in the elections and in the election campaign as a party, i.e. as a party with a long tradition, experience and its own programme. We have committed ourselves to our work plan, as we have called it, and to the values arising from our long history. The Slovenian People's Party is a party to Slovenian, European and Christian traditional values, is a party of all citizens and citizens, all Slovenes and Slovenes, and does not accept any division on the left, right, ours, yours, upper, lower, I do not know what else. We have been faithful to these principles so far, and we remain faithful to them. In the elections, we were entrusted with a few more than 75,000 votes of citizens and citizens. We have been given confidence on the basis of our programme and our past actions, which has shown our attitude towards all social problems and areas, both country, family, values, morals, social responsibility and could still be listed. People also trusted us because of our constructive posture in the past mandate, which we have also proved repeatedly by actions, not just by words. With today's decision to support Mr Janez Janša as a mandate-holder, and consequently to enter this centre-right or what we have called an anti-crisis coalition, we prove what we have promised not least before the elections. We have promised a willingness to take responsibility, concrete actions and concrete solutions, urgent if you want, uncompromising, some even painful, but especially necessary for the benefit of all of us, especially our children, grandchildren and all the generations that follow us. For the good of Slovenia, which deserves not the harsh fate of almost bankrupt countries, such as Greece, but the opportunity to quickly dig out of the current tribulation and return to the path of a competitive and successful country. We are aware of the seriousness of the situation and of the time we are in. We know where we're going and what we're getting ourselves into. Slovenia needs a government with full powers and immediate operationality at the moment. We need a serious and responsible coalition of parties that will be willing to do everything possible to get Slovenia out of the situation it is in, both from the financial economic crisis and from the crisis of moral and ethical values. The left-centre option, unfortunately, failed in the previous term. We have estimated that this coalition is the one in which we will be able to implement our programme in the vast majority, not for ourselves and for ourselves, but for all of us. It turns out that it doesn't matter who gets a relative majority in elections. It is even more important that the relative winner, taking into account and respecting the remaining potential coalition partners, consists of an absolute majority government. The proposal for a current term of office is supported by 50 Members' signatures or, if you want to, slightly less than 600,000 voters and voters, representing an absolute majority of all those who have come to vote. This takes into account the majority will of all voters, and we are pleased with this in the Slovenian People's Party. On the basis of all that I have said, in the Slovenian People's page, we will support the proposal for a mandate-holder, namely Mr Janez Janša. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u7	Thank you. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Ludmila Novak shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u8	Dear Mr President, a respected candidate for a term of office, dear colleagues and fellow citizens! Today, all Slovenia is in tight anticipation or this time we will be able to elect a mandate holder for the composition of the new Slovenian government. Our neighborhood and all of Europe are also ours. If even this time the supposed voters have not been successful, and I hope that this is not just fictional, then all Members will keep their word and respect the decisions of our highest clients' bodies, then the mandate-holder will be elected. The new Slovenia will support today's candidate and thus fulfil the pre-election promise to participate in the majority of the spring government if it consists of a coalition. After the elections, we have already seen ourselves in the opposition, which will constructively support all good government proposals, thinking that the government will be made up of a relative winner of the elections. Who else would have wanted to join the government in these difficult times, we thought, and were fully satisfied with our position. After all the conversions, shelters and coordination talks, however, we have prepared and signed a coalition agreement between the five parties that will guide our operations in the coming period. New Slovenia supports the candidate for a term of office, because we are convinced that Slovenia needs a bit of a shake, but a firm hand, especially a man with hard skin. Each of us has its own idea of an ideal politician and leader, so I know that today's candidate has a lot of supporters and quite a few opponents. In our assessment of eligibility for a mandate holder, we will find it difficult to fully unify ourselves. I am convinced that in these times it is much easier to be in opposition than to lead a government that predicts belt tightening, radical changes in all areas, reduction in public consumption and government debt. Since this will be an extremely difficult task, Mr Janša is probably not the most happy and eager to see this cross, which we will elect today. The coalition will be ahead of a challenging task. Due to the heterogeneousness of the parties and also of us politicians, who have their own right and, unfortunately, each of their own flies, the future mandate-holder will have to keep practicing firmly in hand. We probably won't always like this and will be attacked by various temptations. You will also be the opposition MPs in temptation, because after winning the elections it is not easy to accept the role of the loser and act as a constructive opposition. There will also be a coalition under trial, which too often thinks that everything must be the way it's supposed to be. Word fights in Parliament are often passed on to the streets and between people and how quickly unnecessary tensions are generated in society. In recent times, many of us Members have been exposed to shame, pressure and threats. How fast can we get close to some banana Republic, where each election is accompanied by shooting or civil war. By the way, let me take this opportunity to refer to the words of Mr Karl Erjavac, who spoke of an ideological fight. The new Slovenia does not trigger it and will not trigger it and let me say that I have no honorary doctorate in this place, that these are inventions that circulate online as an example of false speech and thus upset both the left and right people. I don't have a doctorate, and everything that's written there is pure fiction. Probably not with very good intentions. That is why we really have a great responsibility for the state of the spirit in society, both politicians and the media, who convey our words and actions to the public. Regardless of sympathy or antipathy for today's candidate for a term of office, we must acknowledge his experience, his determination, his knowledge, his knowledge of solutions and, above all, his strong will to bring Slovenia out of the crisis through his programme. If we all want to do well for our country, for ourselves and for all of us, let us join forces, trust in this programme, which is a joint programme of five parties, and in many ways similar to the programmes of the remaining two parties. In us are the eyes of our citizens who want bread, new jobs, fair pay for work done, security, education, decent pensions and equality before the law. Our measurements of power are of little interest to them as they solve their daily problems and count unpaid bills. Our progress is often hampered by too much self-destructiveness, criticism, mutual mistrust and ideological contradictions. Let us cross these obstacles in our heads and make way out of this vicious and destructive circle. But it is our common future, which depends to the best of all on us and on our conduct. We all want positive indicators to turn up in Slovenia in order to be more pleased with our country and also with our leaders. We have an opportunity, let's not waste it with foolish distractions that take the will to work and undermine confidence in our better future. Our ship – Slovenia has gone between dangerous boils and threatens us with shipwreck, the crew withdraws from the deck, and the rescue of the ship depends not only on the new rescue team, but also on the extent to which the previous crew will help rescue or sink the ship – I hope not – and also on whether the passengers will panic or be comprehensively involved in the rescue. It will also depend on the rapporteurs who will encourage or calm panic. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the programme presented allows the way out of the crisis. We will support Mr Janez Janša as a mandate-holder, because we believe that together we can achieve our goals and thus restore Slovenia's hope, reputation and future.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Roberto Battelli has the floor on behalf of the Italian and Hungarian national groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First, it showed that the votes of members of the national communities could be decisive for the composition of the coalition and the government, and then it turned out not to be at all. Therefore, our desire, our demand, our condition to support the formation in Slovenia of a coalition that could deal with the crisis with the relevant parliamentary majority was reasonable and correct. We have shared such a desire with many reasonable people. Now it appears that this condition will be fulfilled. Before the first vote for the term of office, my colleague, Mr Göncz, and I forwarded to all parliamentary parties the expectations of the national communities in this mandate and during this difficult period that awaits us. The Five-Parties Coalition, which was formed in the meantime, responded to this letter with a proposal for an agreement on cooperation with the coalition, in which we were then involved. We signed it the day before yesterday and also enjoy the support of all organisations of the national communities, both Italian and Hungarian. Allow me to quote the more operational part of this agreement, which says: "The signatories to the treaty agree on the importance of maintaining the national and cultural identity of the Italian and Hungarian national communities and the specificity of the nationality of the mixed area. They therefore agree that the level of specific rights of the national communities so far constitutes a starting point for their further development. In order to implement measures against assimilation in all areas of vital importance for the development and existence of both national communities, including the promotion of economic and infrastructure development of national mixed areas, focusing on the creation of new jobs and the creation of an economic basis for national communities. Particular attention should be paid to strengthening the organisations and institutions of national communities, their languages and cultures, as well as the autonomy of indigenous national communities. To create a favourable social climate for the implementation of policies relating to the Italian and Hungarian national communities. In order to ensure the appropriate socio-political and economic situation of the Italian and Hungarian national communities in Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will draw up a bill for the protection of the Italian and Hungarian national communities to date. I think this text is very important, it is important for the national communities, it is also important for relations and democracy and certain values in Slovenia. On the basis of this, Mr Göncz and I will support the candidate for a mandate, support this government and we will have a hard and responsible work to do from here. National communities will be able to contribute to the overall better future of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u11	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Positive Slovenia, Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u12	Honourable President of the National Assembly, candidate for a term of office, colleague and colleague! Today we will vote on the Proposal for the election of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Almost two months after the first early elections in Slovenia, today we are expected to get a candidate for the composition of the government, which has already been able to raise serious doubts about its intentions before it is confirmed. And let's take some time and take a closer look at this coalition that's currently forming with us. In the Coalition Treaty, the parties pledged that, I quote, "the coalition will be committed to the values of individual freedom, which can be limited only to the rights and freedoms of others, to the values of tolerance, to the respect of ethical and other minor persons and to the respect of other thinkers. The coalition will strive for the highest possible level of culture of political dialogue based on the strength of the arguments without personal discredits, intolerance and insulting statements. Politics will not interfere with the work of the media, editors and journalists, the limits of freedom of press work can only be law and professional ethics. The coalition will respect state institutions in the spirit of state-of-the-art and ensure good cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly, the President of the Republic and the judiciary." The coalition will respect state institutions in the spirit of state-of-the-art, but at the same time, it will politically subordinate the prosecution to the Ministry of the Interior, which will be led by the Vice-President of the Party whose President is in court in Slovenia. The activities of him and his clients shall also be checked by the detection and prosecution authorities in two other countries. The coalition will respect these institutions, but the future Prime Minister is nevertheless unable to find time and show respect for the court by participating in judicial proceedings where his guilt in the Patria affair is decided. The coalition will respect the Institute of the President of the Republic, but the largest coalition party is attacking it with document editing. Politics will not interfere with the work of the media, editors and journalists, but at the same time the SDS party wonders: "How long will electricity customers pay quasi leftist "blouses" at Studio City? Last but not least, the coalition will seek to maximize the culture of political dialogue by abolishing the Ministry of Culture for the purpose of rationalisation and saving, while still finding a place for the ministry of Slovenians around the world. Dr Vinko Gorenak, when adopting the Government Act on the Internal Policy Committee, ensured on Thursday that the coalition with the amendment at the meeting of the National Assembly would end the disputed submission of the State Prosecutor's Office to the Minister for Home Affairs, and we see that this did not happen. It is merely a practical non-resistance for the discipline of coalition Members and Members. Ladies and gentlemen, are you still surprised we don't believe you? However, we must not be overly critical. Last but not least today we are deciding on a proposal for the Prime Minister of the Government submitted by the coalition for the exit of Slovenia from the crisis. So a coalition of people who have the best intentions and are aware of the serious situation that Slovenia is in. A coalition that benefits the state over their own. Last time they said we had the first early elections in Slovenia because the previous ruling set did not deal with the country and its problems, but only with itself. However, we cannot go beyond the fact that, in all the high-flying words, this coalition is no different. The president of the second largest coalition party is leaving for the government and is working hard to maintain the post of President of the National Assembly. The president of the party who stressed in the electoral campaign that both SDS and Positive Slovenia should not have an internal affairs portfolio, because this would be very bad for Slovenia and for confidence in the rule of law, is now ready to leave this place to the party whose president is in the process for the price of a comfortable chair in the National Assembly and for the avoidance of responsibility in the Government. And he's also giving him control of the state's attorney's office. This same gentleman, as we have already said, is tirelessly looking for the Minister of Justice, as two candidates have already given him a basket, but he still does not understand that both of them are telling him the same thing: we are not prepared to work in this way. On the other hand, the president of another coalition party admits that he also does not smell too much going to the government. In the course of the economic and financial crisis, the president of the smallest coalition party wants to run a charter-free portfolio for Slovenians around the world. That's how we read it. Even though we are abolishing the Ministry of Culture, which cannot find its place under the blue sky and the yellow sun in the incoming government. Finally, we are pleased to see at least two coalition parties showing up for work in the executive branch. Thus, the SDS wants to improve its confidence in the rule of law, in spite of the two decisions of the Constitutional Court which are not in favour of it, the prosecution submits to the police. There's nothing to add, efficiency over everything and above. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, we still haven't heard and seen anything about the 800 million euro savings. If we subtract the words of the candidate for Prime Minister who said, I quote, "as much as we will create, we will spend as much." But he tells the unions, "you can ask for what you want if there's no finances, there'll be no listening." An interesting start to social dialogue. With such actions, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot expect our support. So where does the support for the candidate for Prime Minister take us? At the time of the elections until now we have heard the Lord ensure that the incoming government will not complete its mandate, because the results of the elections are not correct. At the time of the elections until now, we have seen gentlemen visit the President of the Republic for the first time in two years because this was an opportunistic case. At the time of the elections until now, we have seen how pre-election promises to defend the independence of the rule of law at all costs become irrelevant when it is necessary to fight for the comfortable position of the first Member State and Members. At the time of the elections until now, we have seen how expert opinions do not withstand the pressure of political trade and how lying is a legitimate tool in achieving political objectives. At the time of the formation of the coalition agreement, we heard the president of the second largest coalition party talk about how his party managed to introduce a provision that gives parties the right to their own opinions and to vote against the coalition on individual issues. And this same gentleman yesterday freely stated that, although his party eventually changed its opinion on the transfer of the Prosecutor's Office to the Ministry of the Interior, he failed to convince the other coalition partners of this. But Mr Virant, did you not correctly claim that you have achieved the very fact that you can vote in accordance with your beliefs, so why not? Today we have heard a candidate for the Prime Minister of the Government, who, apart from the problems that we are all aware of, has not created anything new for a long time. According to coalition parties' forecasts, we were expecting a vision of a way out of the crisis, but we heard nothing but savings forecasts. The candidate for Prime Minister of the Government said that more money would be devoted to activities and less bureaucracy, but he did not say how out of the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, your coalition treaty cannot be trusted because you have already violated it several times, and the candidate for Prime Minister has not even been elected. This way we cannot trust him, and therefore Positive Slovenia will not vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u13	On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, Mr Zvonko Cernač has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u14	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, all present! In Slovenia, after more than one year of government crisis on 4 December last year, we had early parliamentary elections. There was a relative victory and twenty-eight seats recorded by the List of Zoran Jankovic – Positive Slovenia and the second most powerful party of the Slovenian Democratic Party received two less parliamentary mandates. In line with the long-standing parliamentary tradition and taking into account the electoral outcome, we have already said in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we expect the President of the State, Dr Danilo Türk, to give a mandate for the composition of the government to the relative winner. On the part of Dr Danil Türk, before the elections, when it was pointed out that the relative winner of the elections would be the Slovenian Democratic Party, there were significant statements that he would think carefully about who he would give the term of office for the composition of the government after the elections, not necessarily the relative winner. For us, the opposite has never been true, and this time there is no doubt that the first opportunity must be given to the relative winner of the election. At the same time, we have also said that the situation in the country is difficult, acute and that we need an operational and competent government as soon as possible. We have also proposed constitutional changes in this direction before and after the elections. If they had been accepted, such complications as we have witnessed in the event of Mr Zoran Jankovic's unsuccessful candidacy would not have occurred. If the relative winner did not win the majority in the National Assembly, which in this case happened, we expected Dr Danilo Türk, President of the State, to grant the mandate for the composition of the government to the one who has the support provided for appointment in the National Assembly. That didn't happen. Although Mr Janša had the support of fifty Members and Members for the election and, subsequently, the support of both Members of the Nationality, i.e. twenty-five votes, the President of the State did not propose him as a mandate-holder. We therefore have before us the proposal to appoint Mr Janez Janša as Prime Minister, signed by the 50 Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary groups, the National Gazette of Gregor Virant, the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia – the Christian People's Party. However, Mr Janša's appointment as Prime Minister, as we have heard, is also supported by the representative of Hungarian and Italian nationalities, which means that this proposal enjoys the support of almost 60% of the members of this national assembly, which represents almost six thousand elections and electorates, or more than 50% of the electorate and electorate. The proposal is therefore legitimate, transparent and, therefore, it must also be regarded as offensive in this place as pre-derogation of the opposition's part that this proposal will receive the votes marked in secret. There is no need for this, do not judge the conduct of others by your actions, for the content of this proposal is the one that connects us. The coalition agreement, which we have called the Treaty on Slovenia, is based on the knowledge that the economic situation in the country is difficult and that it also causes a social crisis and a developmental stalemate. This Treaty is based on the knowledge that the international environment, in particular the European environment, is unstable and that we cannot expect a rapid improvement in this direction. It comes from the knowledge that the financial crisis in general and the euro crisis can be further exacerbated. This Treaty stems from the knowledge that the transition, despite a decision on democracy and the social market economy, has been ongoing for 20 years with its anomalies and side effects. It comes from the knowledge that the key elements of the social market economy, an effective and fair rule of law, a just social state and free markets do not work satisfactorily. It comes from the knowledge that economic operators and the public sector still manage the networks of the agreed economy to a certain extent. It comes from the knowledge that citizens and entrepreneurs do not all have equal opportunities to develop creative and entrepreneurial ambitions. However, it also comes from the values that connect us all together, I believe that more than the parties to the coalition treaty, from the freedom of an individual who can only be limited to the freedom of others and who can only be restricted by the State, if this is necessary to achieve the general public benefit, from solidarity that requires compassionate concern for the fellow man and the provision of equal opportunities for all, from connectivity and constructiveness, which will help to overcome old divisions and put all that unites us and connects us. It comes from patriotism, because we are aware of our debt to all those generations that have pushed the way towards our independent country, which is a means for the material and spiritual well-being of its inhabitants, out of respect for ethnic and other minorities, out of respect for those who think otherwise, which requires a patient dialogue based on the power of argument, from the belongings of the European ideas and the North Atlantic alliance, and from the common European foreign and security policy, adjusted to take responsibility for the expansion of the area of freedom, peace, respect for human rights and security, from the love of our children, whom we want to give better lives, from the respect of our ancestors, who trusted us with temporary protection, and in particular from the responsibility of the voters who have entrusted us with their voice, and from the genuine and democratic values of Slovenian independence. The fundamental objectives set out in the Treaty for Slovenia are, of course, important and fundamental. The fundamental objective is to further develop Slovenia faster than the average of the European Union since 2013 in order to reduce the number of unemployed people, to raise employment to the Lisbon objective, thereby increasing the standard of living and the well-being of people living in Slovenia. Public financial consolidation based on a more rational functioning of the state and the public sector and economic growth and job creation. Regulation of payment non-discipline by measures to ensure that economic disputes are resolved at the time of the European average and by measures to ease the so-called credit crunch. Meeting the commitments of the European Union's Stability and Growth Pact, improving the institutional framework and creating a favourable field for foreign and domestic investment. The withdrawal of the State from the current management, staffing and operation of state-owned enterprises and the sale of undertakings, provided that it is optimal, rational and that the State retains a share in a small number of strategic enterprises which allows for an impact on their fundamental decisions. A fair and effective functioning of the rule of law and legal certainty, sustainable development, a balance between the social state and a more competitive market economy, a reduction in public spending, a stable system of pension and health insurance based on the principle of fairness, transparency and intergenerational solidarity. The favourable conditions for cultural growth and the strengthening of Slovenian and European identity, the improvement of the conditions for the design and development of families and the increase of fertility, a safe, friendly and healthy living environment, an effective fight against clienteleism and corruption, quality, effective and fair governance with the country, in principle, that the state and all public sector institutions serve as a service to citizens and the economy and do not constitute an obstacle to them. And, of course, the successful enforcement of Slovenia in the world and the pursuit of national objectives, as well as the common European foreign and security policy, the adjusted assumption of responsibility for the expansion of the space of freedom, peace, respect for human rights and security. However, in this Treaty for Slovenia, there is, of course, no division of responsibility by sector. This is the subject of a future prime minister or prime minister and the agreement of all coalition partners. Thus, some in this room obviously know something that even the signatories themselves do not know. The proposal for the appointment of the Prime Minister was tabled after the signed Treaty on Slovenia. In this proposal, on the one hand, we are based on the real assessment of the situation in which Slovenia, which Mr Janša referred to in the introductions, is based on the economic situation in the country and in the countries on which we are most dependent. This assessment suggests that the situation is more acute than it was in 2009, both at macro and micro levels. On the other hand, we are making a firm commitment to reinvigorating Slovenia. The most difficult will be the first two years when public spending on the one hand has to be cut down, and on the other the opportunities for development, the basis of which are new jobs. It will be even more difficult because the state apparatus has been in some sort of dead course for almost a year, without clear direction and effective guidance. Information on the taking-over of new financial obligations by individual budgetary users not necessary for the operation of the State is being made public. The Ministry of Environment and Space, which is being reorganised, has moved to a new location in recent days, resulting in unnecessary damage on purpose. Part of one of the other ministries moved through the system of an NPU. The largest state bank of NLB is headquartered and needs an expensive financial injection. The economy is down. Credit lines are closed. In the presentation of the candidate for the mandate, we have heard that the banks' flows are in the opposite direction. Companies pay more in the banking sector than they get credit lines from it. Unfortunately, some have still not changed their minds and obviously do not understand that money does not come from budget lines but that it must be earned. Credit rating's dropping. Just yesterday, we fell for a city lower, with a negative forward forecast. However, each such fall means Slovenian taxation costs, which are measured at more than 100 million euros per year. With each day of extension of this agony, the work that the new government will have to do will be harder, and more sacrifices and more denials will be needed. The future Prime Minister and the entire government are facing hard work. It will need more reason and more cooperation than has been detected by the biggest opposition party in recent days and today. In no case, however, without a broader agreement on fundamental development and social issues, the opposition and the social partners will not be involved. But we are confident that we can do this — together, for the Treaty of Slovenia is open. Of course, most of the responsibility lies with the signatories. But if it comes true, we'll all succeed. In this case, Slovenia and its people will be the winner. In addition to the content, of course, it is also important who will execute this content. The government led by Mr Janez Janša in 2004 to 2008 was the only government to have completed this mandate with the same partners as it started. It's a success. This is proved by the figures, the results, even by our political opponents, and above all this is recognised by the international environment. All these circumstances give positive signals to international markets. If more support is available to them, these signals will be even stronger. On the other hand, our credit rating, our position in the international public, and consequently our people's standard, depends to the greatest extent on them. I believe, my fellow Members and my fellow Members, that, in conclusion, it is not necessary to stress that Mr Janez Janša enjoys the full support of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. I also believe that together we will all be able to manage enough strength, wisdom and understanding to agree on the most important decisions on which our future depends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u15	Thank you so much for your attitude. The next position will be presented on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. In the period following the early elections, the Social Democrats acted rationally and responsibly, with the aim of forming the government as soon as possible. We believe that we could have the government in the first round when he had the opportunity to form the government, Mr Zoran Jankovic. With an untapped opportunity, the process has been extended and Slovenia has been losing valuable time since September of last year, which could be used to combat the economic and financial crisis. In the second round, the Social Democrats did not propose their candidate, because we did not want to further complicate the already so politicised situation, since there were two parallel processes for making coalition commitments. We have actively participated in the formation of a coalition commitment. We have also decided that the proposal offered in the second round is not our second political choice. We have taken such a position both because of the programme differences and because of the leadership differences in operation. The reason for the decision is also that several parties to the previous government have accumulated a number of problems in reform policy. It is difficult to make an alliance with customers who are more of a party than the country. That is why we concluded that we will act as an experienced and state-favouring opposition. The government of Borut Pahor had the opportunity to carry out reforms as smoothly as possible. She was prevented from doing so. Therefore, a more ambitious approach will be needed, and it is partly the fault of several parties who will now have to do something that could already be done. But let us look ahead and follow the good experience of how countries in the European Union and also our neighbourhood are being saved. There is a demanding process in the European Union for establishing a common fiscal policy and fortifying the euro. For Social Democrats, Europe is not an external policy, but a domestic policy in which we want to actively participate. Social Democrats also understand the economic situation you are entering, and we are aware that you need an incentive to keep quiet. A lot of information proves that Slovenia was not ready for entry into the economic and financial crisis in 2008. It is obvious that at the time you did not understand what was going on and were not prepared to tell the public how difficult the recession will be for Slovenia. Nevertheless, at first we have taken care of people, businesses that have lost markets overnight, and have courageously embarked on the development of the necessary reforms to ensure long-term security for people and their well-being, the stable development of the economy and thus the countries. That there will be no excuses for the previous government, we would also like to remind you of the ease of creating a public opinion against the ready reforms adopted in the National Assembly and how they fell at the referendums. All of this has caused great damage. The great referendum Sunday literally killed the reformist mentality. And now, Mr Janez Janša, it is your great opportunity and responsibility to restore this mentality. We note, however, that in these circumstances all knowledge and determination to handle problems is in vain if there is no patience and patience. On these experiences, the coordination of parliamentary parties was awakened in Villa Podoržnik 10 days ago. It is anticipated that the Prime Minister will lead the coordination and that the Presidents of individual parties will also be able to propose a reference. Such an agreement is much more valuable than any signing of cooperation agreements. As an experienced and state-of-the-art opposition, we will be critical and look at you under your fingertips, but we will also participate in large, necessary projects for the development of Slovenia if necessary. At the same time, we will represent a political alternative for the Social Democrats, which is of paramount importance in democratic systems, particularly in times of deep social crises. Taking into account the fact that this is an important programme and value difference between the Social Democrats and the emerging government, we will vote in the Group of Social Democrats against the proposal to elect Mr Janez Janša as the mandate holder for the composition of the new Slovenian government.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u17	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, the position will be presented by Dr Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u18	Thank you, dear candidate, colleagues and colleagues! Today, with eight votes, the National List will support Janez Janš as the candidate for the Government's term of office. If we elect a mandate-holder by evening in accordance with the signed coalition agreement, we will allow Slovenia to reach the government with full powers by 10 February. The immediate formation of a government is urgently needed. The government and the National Assembly will have to roll up their sleeves immediately. Times are difficult and people from the government and parliament expect measures that will give them hope for a better tomorrow. After three years of stagnation, catastrophically poor government and unbearablely easy borrowing, the time has come for change. As a central political party, the citizens' list had to decide when entering the centre or centre right coalition. The left-centre option was highlighted by the relative victory of Positive Slovenia in the December 4th elections last year, and the second option was seriously opened when the National Assembly was set up on 21 December last year, when the ad hoc coalition of the two-and-fifty Members and Members provided all the necessary decisions for Parliament to start working. A day later, we received a serious offer of a coalition contract from the party with the second best election result. In deciding on the dilemma between the left-centre and right-centre coalition, the relative victory of Positive Slovenia could not have been the only criteria. This decision was weighty, but it was not such as to delay procedures in any way. As a result of our decision-making, the procedures were neither for a day nor a minute longer, for we have always taken all our decisions within the time limit. We had to ask ourselves which coalition represents a better option for Slovenia in these difficult times of crisis. The coalition with Zoran Jankovic, who was given the first chance as a relative winner, we rejected, after careful consideration and debate in the world, the party despite severe media pressures. We are too different in terms of the concept of government, too many differences are in our programmes. We also had serious doubts as to whether Jankovic's coalition could be managed by informal networks adopting the country. There was also a serious concern in view of the severe contradiction between the presidents of the two potential most powerful coalition partners, Jankovic and Pahor, at the constitutional meeting of the National Assembly on 21 December. How would there be a coalition in which the strongest party thus accounts with its closest and most natural coalition partner and in which the president of the other most powerful parties has very serious concerns about the mandate holder? Intransparency, shopping and manipulation of the number of votes in support of the vote on candidate Jankovic have only strengthened us in the belief that we have done the right thing. Because of our decision, we received heavy charges. The idea that any decision that does not mean joining the coalition with Zoran Jankovic is treason, collaboration, emancipation, Janš's circuit, and I don't know what else, we reject. We live in a free country where a political party can freely decide in which coalition to better implement its programme. Therefore, we ask positive Slovenia to accept our decision and to stop making our statements at our expense. When we spoke against the coalition with you, we did not define ourselves as your enemies or opponents, even though you want to see us this way. Regardless of the fact that we will obviously be in the coalition and you in the opposition, we will have to participate properly until the next elections for the benefit of the citizens. In the Citizens' List, we will always advocate that all the opposition's useful proposals be taken into account. The developments regarding the government law also showed that we wanted to do so. Our wish was, although the basic idea of transferring not the State Prosecutor's Office, but the powers that the Minister has in relation to the State Prosecutor's Office, from one to the other minister on the basis of ours, was written in our programme and also on our initiative as enshrined in the Coalition Treaty to understand each other, we have, however, once again called on the coalition partners to consider this decision before the decision, before voting to allow the law to come through the National Assembly smoothly, if possible, with the consent of the opposition, also because it is a good law because it means rationalisation, where for the first time in history the number of ministries, the number of departments, therefore it is a shame that some of the trial that this transfer has caused is entirely unjustifiable. The coalition partners disagreed, pointed to the provisions of the coalition treaty, and here we had to give them the right. Even if our unilateral reservation was expressed, it was only unilateral, and we adhered to a coalition agreement. This is what we will do in the future. If the opposition makes useful proposals, we will support them. At this point, however, we were bound by the coalition treaty, Mr Möderndorfer, we were not left to coalition freedom. When Zoran Jankovic was not given a mandate in the National Assembly for the composition of the government, we immediately resumed negotiations for a coalition agreement with SDS, DeSUS, SLS and NSI parties. From the very beginning, the Treaty had a clear concept, which is in the most important parts, in the field of economy, finance and the rule of law, similar to ours. In intensive coordination, the text of the Coalition Treaty has also improved significantly. Five parties entered in this coalition contract a common denominator, measures to start the economy, balance public finances and establish or strengthen the rule of law. In the area of start-up measures, tax burdens are of particular importance to us, particularly those aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises, the flexibility of the labour market and what is called radical debirocratisation in the Coalition Treaty is also very important to us, and the simplification of procedures in all areas. I have done a lot of this myself in the 2004-2008 mandate, a huge simplification has been achieved, let's say in the area of business registration we are among the best in the world, among the best in Europe, but in many areas we are still very weak, such as in the area of licensing, land change, licensing procedures and environmental, environmental, environmental, water-related and so on, months and months and blocking development, blocking investment and preventing the creation of new jobs. Bureaucratation has become somewhat rusty in recent years and will need to be reinvigorated. Ideological issues and questions about the interpretation of the past history of the coalition will not open up. On the proposal of the Civil Code, liberal values have also been introduced into the Coalition Treaty, including tolerance, respect for ethnic and other minorities, and respect for other thinkers and so-called coalition freedom, and each party shall be defined and decided freely on all matters not covered by the Treaty. The Civil Code will be a partner on which the coalition can rely as long as the provisions of the Coalition Treaty are respected. And I believe that this partnership will last for four years. As a young, innovative, middle political option, the topsieves fell during and during the election campaign: now to the left, now to the right. Once we were declared traitors of Slovenian spring, the second time Janša's Trojan horse. We have also been the target of manipulations in recent days, trying to convince people that we have been in negotiations for right-centre coalition non-majority and leniency. The facts speak contrary. We have achieved a great deal for a party with only eight mandates in the National Assembly in these negotiations, both in the area of the programme and in the field of influence in the coalition. With regard to the distribution of resources, we had identical requirements or identical proposals for this coalition as for the potential coalition with Zoran Jankovic. Once again we have achieved, with the agreement of the coalition partners, this can change until the proposal for a list of ministers, excellent conditions – leading the judiciary and the financial ministry and the National Assembly. Even in this coalition, we would like not to be taken over by the most powerful coalition party, but, excuse me, with 8% of the votes cast, we are not the strongest party in the coalition, so that we can dictate these conditions and that everything depends on us. We're proud of the negotiating achievement. This achievement, when it comes to the sharing of influence and responsibility, cannot be compared with what has been achieved in the negotiations with Mr Jankovic, since the agreement of Jankovic's potential coalition partners on these issues has not been or has not been signed. Therefore, we would ask that these manipulations be stopped. And that. In recent days, there has been a lot of demeaning talk about the functions of the National Assembly. Even the president of one of the coalition parties, unfortunately, I must say this, has marked the work in Parliament, quote: 'Hide between parliamentary benches'. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the National Assembly is the centre of Slovenian democracy. And whoever is demeaning him is demeaning only democracy and thus the citizens and citizens who form the composition of this national assembly in the elections. And with this criticism, I want to protect the integrity of the Slovenian Parliament and of all Members and Members. And when you get a glimpse of who's going to be running the National Assembly and so on. For the first time in the history of Slovenian Parliamentarianism, there is a problem that the second most powerful coalition party is led by the National Assembly. I don't remember all these years in history that this would ever be a problem until the Civil War came along. Clearly, we are seriously, severely disturbed that almost everything that has ever happened or that anyone ever says or ever does is disturbing and wrong in our case. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let today's vote on the mandate holder and the vote on the government not build a wall between coalition parties and opposition parties on 10 February. Citizens and citizens from all of us expect hard work and real moves, as well as cooperation. We are holding together all coalition and opposition Members, and let us not disappoint them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal of the Group of Members to elect Mr Ivan Janez Janša from the National Assembly for President of the Government, I am opening a debate on Members and Members. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I have prepared a rather calm performance, yet I cannot, in the introduction, pass that I have already been challenged and labeled a liar or something in the positions of the members of the groups. Mr. Möderndorfer spoke about how I announced that amendment on Thursday. I've made it very clear once in the National Assembly that this is true, because it's also in the Magnetgram. However, I also made it very clear in the debate that the coalition of all parties decided that the amendment was not necessary. I don't see anything at all in this. Today, too, there is talk about subordinated the prosecution to the police and so on. This is about some planned public opinion creation that has no basis in real facts. And yet let me go in the order I imagined. The elections are behind us, the elections were premature, and it was kind of normal for the winner, the relative winner, to try to form a coalition. In fact, we have also made it very clear that we expect the President of the State to give him a mandate to form a government, but I will not go into how this government was formed. The president of the National Assembly or of this coalition spoke about this, but something else is being said. I will say so, look, in a way, there is a situation where all citizens or most of our citizens expect that the relative winner of the election is also a mandate-holder. And all that talk about being a fraud to the people, and I don't know what it's all about, it's completely irrelevant. In recent years, we have seven countries in Europe where the coalition has been formed in exactly the same way as we have here. Why? Because the relative winner failed to create this coalition. He didn't make it to the coalition contract and then someone else put it together. Some other coalition was formed. So in Slovenia, there is nothing special about this. I am sorry how the President is, that is, the leader of the positive Slovenia parliamentary group, which in the sign bears some positiveism already in the title verbally, was happy to slap, if I may say so, both the candidate and the president of the National Assembly as well as all the other leaders of the political parties in the coalition. I am well aware that it is likely that at least these two political parties, I think of the Civil Gazette and DeSUS, will be in trouble because they will receive such criticism as we have seen them in the last few days. Although it has to be made very clear, yes, where does it say that a political party has to automatically support someone? Where does it say that? It is probably the free will of political parties to form coalition connections themselves, as they imagined. I was very pleased last day when I heard some of the predictions of the future opposition, "we will be a constructive opposition", as Mr Jankovic said. Mr Pahor also wrote in this regard. Everything's nice and well, great. But we're voting the first law, and it's already a prediction that he'll go to the Constitutional Court. Good too, because this is the right of a certain number of Members to do so. Of course, it will probably have to explain to the citizens why the future government could then have eighteen ministers and not twelve. But this is your free will. Maybe there's another way to conclude. Look, I worked alone as Secretary of State in the government 2004-2008. Let me remind you that this was the only government, I repeat, the only government in Slovenia, where the coalition lasted four years. All coalitions have fallen apart, except for those in the 2004-2008 mandate. Mr Janša, a candidate, led this coalition at the time. Let me remind you that we also presided at that time. And all the things, everything that's attributed to him, are kind of media conditional. And I'm gonna end up like this. See, our first candidate for Prime Minister, on whom we voted, is considered in this public image to be a positive person, an extremely capable manager, a savior of Slovenia, etc. The candidate we're talking about today, and it's about the highway, and I'm talking about what the media, the excruciator, the ripper, the profiteer, the arms dealer, the raw material, and so on. My dears, especially those who report, may wonder how he forced these five parties to join the coalition or something. Yeah, how's that, my dear? No one can be forced to join the coalition, two parties continue to predict that they are going to the right-centre coalition and remain in the process. Two parties, however, acted politically wisely and probably made voluntary decisions. Therefore, it will also have to be asked how that the most positive person in this country cannot get five customers and the one who considers such a negative person succeeds. Yeah, how's that? We should probably also ask ourselves about the reality of the image of our media space, if you want, and the creation of a public opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Only Bevk, get ready for the mags. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! It is already clear today that the non-trust of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia brought more damage to the country last September than it did to the State. We had to go to early elections, the country stood still, and for almost six months we have been waiting for a mandate-holder whose country's president denies him full legitimacy and a new government. During this time we have already twice experienced a reduction in Slovenia's credit rating, money becomes a daily hold for both the country and the citizens. On the other hand, the government could not act or could not act because it was only able to carry out ongoing business. If we did not have early elections, we would also avoid the ten million costs that arise every day because we do not yet have governments. As the candidate for Prime Minister Janez Janša said earlier. The government of Borut Pahor, which is saying goodbye, has been regarded as a reform government, all of which have been thrown under the feet from the start. Here I am thinking of some coalition partners as well as the then opposition at the head of SDS and trade unions. Some of the political parties that have consistently demolished the outgoing government have not come to the National Assembly at all. The biggest opposition party, which was predestined to win, reached only a second place in the elections. And this second place, for the first time in the history of Slovenian parliamentary practice, gives her the opportunity to form a government. Especially because of the political acrobatics of the National Gazette, which first negotiated on all sides until it finally landed in the arms of its natural ally. With full respect for the electoral outcome, the situation today would be completely different. Today, the most likely new Prime Minister Janez Janša stressed that we urgently need long-term structural changes in Slovenia and that we need to send a clear signal to the international community that we are able to stabilise the government or the country. As leader of the opposition, however, he did everything he could to ensure that the reforms of the outgoing governments fell one by one, especially on a large referendum Sunday last June, when pension reform also fell. Of course, trade unions have also played an important role here, but it should be stressed that the opposition at the time, or at least a large part of it at the referendums, has also broken laws that have been aligned with the social partners. It follows from this that, in the previous term, we were not confronted with a state-of-the-art opposition. The social democrats of the new candidate for Prime Minister will not be supported. We will be critical of the new Prime Minister and the new government. The Social Democrats will certainly be a more state-favouring opposition than they were in the previous term. It will soon be revealed whether in our country it is only a struggle for power and division of prey or whether we want to do something good for the country and its citizens. When a coalition agreement is made publicly available, there are also some other substantive issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Katarina Hotch. Get Mr. Franz Jurša ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! There's been a lot of talk lately about legitimacy. Moreover, in Slovenia we have two new types of legitimacy: full and incomplete, and the difference between them is a few percent. It saddens me that in the light of political interests new legal concepts are being invented, which are being further developed into a cellophane diplomatic language. I am of the opinion that today more than half of Slovenia, which, through elected representatives, Members and Members of Parliament, proposes the full legitimacy of Mr Janez Janša as its mandate holder. When the coalition was formed, it turned out that our political system was oriented to determine the winner's ability to cooperate. And that's the wealth of the political system. The coalition that is proposing a mandate-holder today has proved that it is capable of cooperation. And I am sure that in the future it will be recognized as a coalition capable of cooperating with other thinkers. At the same time, I would stress that I am not only a member of the National List, but also a representative of Zagorjanov, Zagorje, where there is a liberal thought at home. And my vote for you, Mr Janša, is to encourage you to truly be the president of all, including those who have different beliefs or attitudes. And in this spirit, in our own way, I shall conclude by knapsack: Good luck! Don't let down the working class!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Last October at the Bled Congress, on 21 October, the DeSUS Party, which I belong to, adopted its programme to perform in the early elections that we had on 4 December last year. The programme states in the first indent: "We will not go to the far left, we will not go to the far right, but we are interested in the implementation of our adopted programme." We have also clearly divided ideological questions. We stand for the Church to separate from the state. We have a positive attitude towards national liberation. And to everyone with whom we joined the coalition, we have also made this clear and unequivocal. The programme, which was adopted, was based on life matters. We have more young people in our client than we have in the past, but older members still dominate. We are aware, despite the fact that most pensioners, that without emphasis on the economy there is no possibility of sharing, we have also written in the programme – in the first place the economy, then the large and important state investments, because we can bring the country out of the economic crisis with them. Emphasis was given primarily to employment of younger and older generations, culture, sport, education, and, of course, how thorough – the reduction of the social directorate. In no case have we forgotten about social welfare, this is our fundamental value and the fundamental task of supporting pensioners, those receiving social assistance, and especially those on the edge of social life. We are aware that reforms must be implemented. Some here in the National Assembly, with whom I also sat in the previous term, will say so because you did not do so. Yes, we did not support pension reform because it was not sufficiently coordinated with the social partners because it was not harmonised within the coalition partners and because it was simply and simply not fair to all the same. We are aware that without pension reform we will not be able to implement all these appropriate measures that would lead Slovenia to a better tomorrow. Let me say that, however, at the DeSUS party, we were convinced that it was necessary to have talks with the relative winner of these elections, Mr Jankovic, first. We have also done so, and we have done so until then until we have simply and simply realized that Mr Jankovic, due to the lack of votes in the National Assembly, cannot form an appropriate coalition and has not been appointed Prime Minister candidate. However, because we did not want a political crisis, we decided to go to the talks, to negotiate with the right-wing parties, who also offered us this cooperation. We have succeeded and agreed on the measures that are important from our programme to actually implement the programme, as far as we have received in the coalition that was formed with the relative winner. We realize it won't be easy, it won't be easy. I would like Mr Janša to form a good government that will be successful and will take us on a better day for Slovenia tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u27	Thank you very much. It's mag. Matthew Tonin. Get ready for Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u28	Honourable Presidents, dear colleagues and distinguished candidates for the term of office! Let me be allowed to speak in parables today. The position of Slovenia is about the same as that of the famous Costa Concordia. I'm sure you'll agree. At this point, our ship is heading towards the cores. And it's up to the new captain to turn this ship off. I can say that Nova Slovenija will remain on this ship and will help the captain to divert the ship from the core. Although many counselors encourage us, they tell us, "it would not be easier for New Slovenia if you stayed in the opposition at this point, you are only four". That's right. It'd be easier. But we didn't go to the polls to make it easy for us, but to do something for our beloved country. In the 2004-2008 mandate, I think we have achieved great results. The ministers of Nova Slovenije also received great recognition, and we paid a great price for it. We have already put the country before a party in 2004-2008. And that is what we intend to do in the new mandate. Mr Weber spoke earlier about how the opposition was in the mandate, when we were not in Parliament, inoperable and that it was plaguing. Perhaps he forgot to mention that the coalition was the one – the one that brought down the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor. I think this should be further pointed out. Let me say the next thing. At this point, the responsibility to lead the country is assumed by the coalition, which has so far endured from the beginning to the end in an unaltered form. That's the first thing. Secondly, we have tackled some essential and key issues in the 2004-2008 mandate. Last but not least, this coalition is headed by a man with the highest mandate experience today. Nor is it indisputable when we speak of the critical and difficult moments ahead of us. I'd like to say one more card or two for the responsible attitude. First of all, my colleagues from Dessus. They could easily insist on some imaginary ideological differences, and they decided to put the country in front of the party. And one more thing, perhaps, is that the voters of DeSUS, who are now attacking Mr Karl Erjavac, I am pleased to say that the Church is already separate from the state, this is the first time. The second thing is, those who talk about the school verduke, let me make it clear and loud that Nova Slovenija is not about the fact that there is going to be a believer in schools, that there will be no tension or problems, I am clearly and frankly speaking. Next thing you know, there's a congratulations to Mr. Pahor. I think that Mr Pahor wrote a nice and very clear letter when he said that this future new government cannot be denied legitimacy and that this is an indisputable right and that this is a democracy. I'm fixing it here. While the President of the Republic, who is supposed to connect all of us, speaks somewhat differently and in some ways brings tension into this political space, which is not good. I hope that, unfortunately, Mr Pahor is not here now, but his fellow Social Democrats will tell him that in the fall, however, he should choose to run. I think he might be a very good candidate. Don't forget to tell him. So he's a candidate for the president of the state. I'd like to draw your attention to one more thing, 1990. At this point, it is said that for the first time in history, the prime minister or prime minister will be someone who comes from the second largest party. It won't be the first time. Those of you who know history, I am a little younger, but I know this part of history. In 1990, the party won the Democratic Renewal, while others were ZSMS and the third was the Slovenian Christian Democracy. Mr Jakič will probably recall that Mr Lojze Peterle was at the time composed of the government, because he had a majority in the context of Demos in Parliament, and therefore Mr Kučan did not even consider whether he would give the mandate to a third party, not to a third party, but to a third party. And it's clear why he did. If I were to conclude slowly, I would say that there must be extremely difficult times ahead. I just hope that what you're saying is that this is gonna be serious, that we're not gonna drag one of these cars forward, and the other one you're gonna take back. I hope it holds what you're saying to be a constructive opposition. And one last sentence, if I may paraphrase a little. Mr Erjavec said that by taking responsibility for leading the government, this is the path to hell. I'll say at least that's the way to the joke, because from the joke, at least there's a solution to heaven, and from hell, there's nothing left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The text is by Dr. László Göncz. Get ready, Mrs. Sasha Kos.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As I myself have received many letters in the past, I will start my debate a little wider. We are living at a time when the situation has changed significantly over a decade before. Industry, craft, service activities cannot create products, products that we used to need, because today our expectations are significantly different. The standard of living is objectively higher in Slovenia as well, thank God, and unfortunately it has also brought a lot of inequality to our society in terms of wealth and goods and corruption, and also very unfavourable demographic trends. So today, we can see that nothing is what it used to be. A sincere view of the mirror would be needed, each first looking into his own eyes and then looking into everyone else’s eyes. This should then be followed by a substantial mental leap, changes in the overall range of socialisation and awareness and structural changes in education, which would in fact be based on qualitative, moral and social values. We should leave behind stereotyped thinking based on some lost illusions. In recent years, there has also been an extreme polarisation of society in a political sense and many times increased opportunities for citizens to obtain information, good and bad or objective and misleading. Citizens in difficult times expect some sort of savior, which of course is not and cannot be. The problem is also that most citizens view potential candidates from a relatively narrow political or ideological perspective. The possibilities for gradual recovery are, of course, or must be, sought together. In doing so, the new government will have to stress both the balancing of public finances, focusing on job creation and structural change, taking into account the unequal social situation of the population as well as the issue of sanctioning unjustly acquired property. In the circle of indigenous national communities, we are trying to face the situation honestly. We are convinced that, despite the difficult times in the current constitutional and financial framework, much can be done in the area of transparency and systemic upgrading of the model of protection of the rights of indigenous national communities in Slovenia. This common intention is also enshrined in an agreement on cooperation between the potential new government coalition and members of the national communities. To our mission, we have also set ourselves up as members of the national communities with regard to the creation of a new government. In this regard, the most important guide was, of course, in addition to the priority in the field of the regulation and development of the national communities, that the proposed mandate-holder should have at least a clear minimum majority, and that a Member of the national communities cannot decide on the client or ideological colour of the potential coalition. The first attempt by a relative winner has not been successful. Let us hope that today's elections will be successful and that this will end the period of unstable political conditions in the country. As Mr Battelli pointed out in his position, we will today support the proposed mandate-holder. Let me stress this, as we have said several times in recent days, by signing the cooperation agreement, we have set a good basis for an honest relationship between Members of the national communities and a potential government. Of course, this does not mean that we would be an integral part of the coalition, which the proposed mandate-holder and the presidents of the parties who signed the agreement understand as well. Therefore, I would like to see the proposed measures, laws and programmes proposed in the next period, which we will also be able to support because they will be professionally appropriate. Above all, this is our condition in supporting the proposals of the new government. We don't want to go into client and ideological debates in the future either. Finally, let me say that the relationship of all parties to our positions has been maximized. The position of organisations of both nationalities has also been uniform, although pressure of the public has sometimes been over-potential, unilateral or even partial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sasha Kos has the floor. Get ready, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I'm gonna touch the Ministry of Culture again. Yesterday, I received a public protest from the Gloss syndicate with the intention of abolishing the Ministry of Culture. This suggests that so far Slovenian policy of all colors has been heard about the development of culture, as well as at the status and symbolic level of the Ministry of Culture. Surprisingly, this good practice is intended to be interrupted by a group of political parties that were carriers of Slovenian spring, despite the fact that at the most crucial moments they had important support from most cultural creators and intellectuals. The following also mentions that caring for culture in a small nation and a young country must be 100 times more important than caring for culture in large and adult members of the same family. This protest is signed by Doro Hvalica, President of the Gloss Union. As we all know, culture is our basic foundation and the indelible content of recognition and reality. Slovenian culture is much older than the Slovenian state, much older than when Primož Trubar wrote down the name that unites us and represents us as a nation and now two decades as a country. We have founded, persisted, solidified our own identities for even longer than the thousand years of Slovenian language. The role of culture has not diminished with Slovenian statehood when the Republic of Slovenia joined the European Union, its role has only increased as culture, the most recognizable and decisive diversity, spiritual wealth, is of lasting value, the uniqueness of each member. Cultural creativity, power and originality and creativity depend on us, our human, political, nation-building maturity. Our spiritual and national substance can preserve, nurture and develop an effective, widely understood independent cultural policy. Article 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states: "The State is concerned about the consistent development of Slovenia." This will certainly not be possible, because I am very concerned that the Ministry of Culture will be united or each merger will bring about dependence or adaptation and compromises, which does not lead to progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u33	Thank you very much. It's mag. Andrej Šircelj, prepare Andrej Črnak Maglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u34	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues, esteemed colleagues! I am pleased today that the candidate for Prime Minister of the Government, in his opening address, has presented the actual situation, namely the situation prepared by the Government's official service, which demonstrates the complexity of international economic relations, which shows the complexity of the economy both in Europe and in the world and, of course, because we are part of Europe and part of the world, too. Yesterday another agency lowered Slovenia's rating, money is more expensive today. Since money is more expensive, the lives of citizens and citizens will also be more expensive. Banks will have to pay higher interest on these new loans if they want to be in debt, and it seems they will have to be in debt to pay already accepted debts. Long-term payment of higher interest means poverty.The State, company or bank must provide a guarantee in such or other form to rent the loan. And when it's actually not possible to pay interest or principal, it comes down to borrowing credit to pay off another loan. And eventually, the loan takes over the company, takes over the bank and takes over the country. This may, of course, be a negative scenario, but I am glad that a coalition treaty, the main part of which is economic measures, has been signed, are measures that will drive this country out of the crisis and that will show and move towards economic growth and that will also lead to more jobs. It is not the sole objective of economic growth, and the objective is also to create jobs at a time when we have more than a hundred ten thousand employees, they are probably even more important. Therefore, the measures envisaged by the Coalition Treaty are designed to rehabilitate the banking system, which means, in other words, that banks will be able to start lending, that banks will actually be exempt from these bad loans, that they will no longer have them, that they will transfer them to another organisation, and that will make it easier for them to lend to the economy and the population. This is one of the conditions for the economy to come to life and for medium- and small-sized enterprises to come to life. I also think that this is important for large companies, but today we actually have some kind of relationship between small and medium-sized enterprises. Another important measure is the one relating to the rehabilitation of public finances. In other words, we have spent the last three years about 20% more than we create. And if we spend more than we create, we're in debt. The state is in debt. And if the state over-indebted, that means that it will have to pay more and more interest. Today, the debt is 16 billion euros, three years ago it amounted to EUR 8 billion. Some compare these billions with gross social product; after all, this is a professional indicator in the European Union and elsewhere, but what is worrying is the direction of development, a trend in this debt. The debt trend means higher interest payments. In Slovenia we will have to agree to spend as much as we create. This ensured that the debt would cease. However, I do not think that this will be enough for the development, growth of the economy to increase the competitiveness of the economy. This will not be largely enough because the economy needs better measures, it needs a better environment in which it can manage better and sell its products more easily at home and abroad and provide services. Under these conditions, certain measures will have to be taken, and laws will have to be adopted to provide for simplified taxation for small and medium-sized enterprises, the so-called flat-rate taxation. In addition, it will be necessary to relieve those most creative people of excessive taxes. This can be done by changing the income scale, even with the so-called social cap they have, by the way, introduced in the vast majority of European countries. The combination of these measures, the rehabilitation of the banking system, at the same time the application of the principle that we will spend as much as we create and the improvement of the management conditions are those measures that will drive the country out of the crisis. And the mandate-holder or future mandate-holder, I hope that Mr Janez Janša, the future mandate-holder, is behind a programme that is the one that actually can or will help the country come out of the crisis. This is what he and the entire ministerial team are committed to showing better results after a year and a half, or after two years. And that's why it's up to Mr. Janez Janša to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Stanko Stepišnik. Procedural. Please choose a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u36	I propose, Mr Vice-President, that we suspend this meeting for a short time so that the candidate for a term of office can return to the Chamber, because this debate is intended for him, he speaks of him, despite the fact that I allow the opportunity for the candidate to listen to this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u37	I'm sure the candidate for the term is listening to our debate. We understand, however, that he cannot be present every minute, and I suppose he will join us during the debate. The word, as it is said, has Dr. Andrej Črnak Mglič to prepare himself for the mag. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u38	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, hello! Today we are talking about a candidate for a term of office for a future four-year period, and in introduction, let me say that I do not intend to support the candidate. First of all, I do not intend to support it because I expect the continuity and continuation of what has already been seen from 2004-2008, which has been reflected in the authoritarian way in which government and state, political culture, is also an integral part of not even listening to us, striving to subjugate relevant social systems. However, most of my concerns are related to substantive reasons. The programme, the main holder of which is a candidate for a mandate, builds its legitimacy on various points. First, on a quick sale of state property. We know that many members of his coalition spoke very carefully about the state silver and its sale. Now, in the program itself, we can read that we will no longer have any major concerns here. What is even more worrying is that this sale will take place during the economic recession, which means that we will get much less for the seized than we could possibly have. Secondly, due to the high capital burden, which, of course, does not necessarily have to have positive effects everywhere and always on positive economic growth and higher employment. The assessment of the macroeconomic consequences of the more important proposed measures, Mr Majcn and Čok, has shown that the balance is not always positive, but it should be stressed that at least for a short period of time, until the positive effects show up, the deficit we will thus have to be offset in some way, at least after an estimated billions of euros. From what sources will we cover this? The answer is implied. Under the formula of greater competitiveness is the secret privatisation of the public sector and the elimination of the social state. It is common for all to bear the name of the introduction of neoliberal or liberalisation of measures. The result from the aspects of human well-being is well known. It will bring a new distribution of income among the population, it is known for the benefit of someone. If I focus a little more on the abolition of the social state or the fundamental reforms that will [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u39	Dr. Črnak Meglič, due to technical problems, you will be given the floor again because the procedural time is currently considered, not the time of the group. Now you've been turned off and, just for a moment, please get your word back immediately and the time will be adjusted. You have to wait one minute. Carry on, Dr. Blackakov.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u40	I would like to speak further specifically about the social state itself or the fundamental reforms that you are planning and, above all, about the pension system, which we all jointly consider to be one of those systems on which the social state is actually an elephant. The biggest shock I experienced today, I think I quite understand that we do not need a pension reform by 2015. Okay, if that's what we think in Slovenia. But very soon, our international partners will convince us that we need a pension reform. At the same time, it is worth stressing, and we will later implement it, and action will have to be sharper. As I understood the content of the changes in the pension system, intergenerational solidarity was to be reduced, individualisation and strengthening of the second and third pillars introduced. These are the characteristics of the system of so-called national accounts. In the countries where this system is established, let me say it has grown organic. Since the beginning of the establishment of pension insurance, where they have moved radically from one system, the evidence system, as we have, into the new system of national accounts, has been seriously hampered by the pension system, which has also been reflected in the deterioration of the social situation of future pensioners. Let me further stress that, in fact, this system means that future pensioners will have to take greater care of their own social security at the time of retirement. If we make a hypothetical bill, if we pay a thousand 500 euros and an average contribution rate of 23.5%, and split this part in half, the first part, which will be solidarity and the second part of our own contributions, we will find that with the contributions paid, future pensioners, with reduced solidarity, can expect lower pensions than they are today. This is especially true of those with lower incomes. Of course, higher pensions will be available to those who will be able to afford additional insurance, especially those which will be burdened with a social cap, which costs 240 million, by the way, and will have to be covered in both insurance systems. If I continue, the cross-cutting set of values and programme objectives of the party to which I belong and the programme offered by Mr Janez Janša as mandate-holder lead me to the decision not to support you. The responsibility for electing a mandate holder is thus in the hands of your allies. This does not mean that I will not support solutions that I will conclude are good for people and for the country. For we are a very constructive party to the social democrats, and we are not burdened by the power to act contrary to the interests of the state and the people. We also understand politics consistently as acting for the public good. On your offer, however, the solution depends on which one we support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Stanko Stepichnik. Get Mrs. Alenka Pavlich ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! There's been a lot of talk today about the program. The future mandate-holder outlined a lot of statistical and analytical data. But a good programme or a bad programme must have at least the objectives and measures of how to achieve these objectives. Above all, there is a shortage in this programme of how, by what, to start an economy at any time. What to do to encourage the economy to invest and start employment? What, how and when to launch development and research? Employment, development, research and economic start-up are the basis for solving today's situation in Slovenia, and I think we all agree. The economic programme should outline how, in one year, at least 15,000 unemployed people will be employed and 5,000 young people coming each year, and probably a few thousand more who will lose their jobs this year and next year. The economic crisis is extremely severe. I come from the economy myself, I have more than 30 years of experience, and I must say that today, as I talk to people, all companies are over-indebted, they have to pay back money to banks, that they are paying off their union loans they have hired. And probably this year the economy can't count on any money for serious technological investments, for development and research. I'm very worried about that, because there's going to be more unemployed. Since there are no specific objectives and proper measures in this programme, I am afraid and will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u43	Thank you so much for saying that. Ms Alenka Pavlič has the floor, Ms Eva Irgl is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u44	Thank you very much. All due respect! I will vote against the election of Janez Janša as mandate-holder. Why? I have worked for almost half my life in Intereuropa, which has since been a radical horse of the Slovenian economy. I gave 20 of the most productive years to this company. You're gonna ask me what happened. In 2004 the government of Janez Janša took place. State-owned companies have become the hostage of this policy and interests. Mr Zoran Jankovic was taken from Mercator and Mr Andrej Lošin brought us to Intereuropa. Does that sound familiar? The 130-million-dollar investment sank 60 years of corporate tradition and 20 years of my work and effort. Intereuropa is drowning in a loan that will never be repaid. Employees are not to blame for the poor health of the company. Without State aid, the company will not be able to meet its 70th anniversary. I've never been particularly politically defined. Now I know exactly that I never want such a policy again. You're talking about selling state property. We do not want you to sell it to us — the property that our fathers and mothers have created with hard work throughout our lives. You sold our iron and all the Slovenian steel industry for some change. Now you're going to sell the roads that connect us. Nor do we want Gorenjeks to remove top wood from our own backyard and sell it for the best furniture. The government and the mandate-holder we are voting on today have already ruled from 2004 to 2008. It was the time of the fat cows, and at that time she didn't save anything, she left an empty cash register. Sir, future mandate-holder, you are presenting yourself as the savior who will save the entire economy in times that are most difficult to overcome since independence. It is also very interesting that last year you called for a boycott of the reforms of the previous government and for early elections. Now you are talking about the necessity of reforms and you are inviting Mr Pahor to a broad coalition. I don't understand you. Your authority is important to you, not the state. When we voted on Commissioner Zoran Jankovic at the previous meeting, all Slovenia saw that your Members should not think with their own heads and that you prevented psychological pressure from voting because it was a secret vote. How are you going to check today to see if your MPs circled "for" or "against"? I am also interested in how you will act today as a member of the minority, unfortunately they are not here because in the previous vote they claimed they did not want to be a language on the scale. Since they have repeatedly argued publicly that they do not want to decide on the Slovenian government, it would be fair for citizens to abstain or vote against this time. I'm not going to ask you today, but I'm going to ask you to think about everything that's going to happen to you. In Kranjska Gora, in Jesenica, in Žirovnica, in Radovljica, in Bled and in Bohinj, electives and voters clearly showed whom they wanted. Of course, they're not among the 600 grand you claim to be supported. That's why I'm not going to support you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Eva Irgle, prepare yourself for the Mag. Melita Zupevec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and honourable Members! Today is certainly a very important and positive day, both for all of us sitting here in this national assembly, as for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, because we will finally be given a mandate for the composition of the government after all the unsuccessful attempts and after all the situations we have witnessed in the last two months. On December 4th, we had early elections. On them, Positive Slovenia with Mr Zoran Jankovic received exactly two parliamentary mandates more than the Slovenian Democratic Party. The President of the State, as is customary and, of course, the only right thing, gave the first opportunity to become a mandate-holder, Mr Zoran Jankovic. His fellow Members argued in the media and in the public that he had eighty votes guaranteed. Well, in the end, it came to light and revealed that it doesn't even have its own kind of two votes. In the end, Mr Zoran Jankovic won only twenty-two votes for the President of the Government, which also gives some weight to what kind of candidate he is. Today, however, we have before us a new candidate for Prime Minister Janez Janša. The proposal was tabled by the parliamentary groups because the President of the State did not decide to give that confidence to the other person in the elections. However, I must say that the President of the State, through his actions, has proved to be extremely double-faced in this latter case, even when we are talking about the relationship between the two biggest presidents of the parties, in relation to Janez Janša, whom we consider to be a candidate today, and with Mr Zoran Jankovic. If it is the first, says Mr Janez Janša, he has already waived any possibility of proposing him as a mandate holder or candidate for a term of office, but has offered another as a dry gold, although the first had the support provided in the National Assembly, and the second was obviously no longer. Mr President of the State said that Mr Janez Janša could not propose a candidate for the Prime Minister of the Government, because he should be challenged because he is in criminal proceedings in the built-up Patria affair, which, after recent events, as we can see, is falling down like a house of cards. In my previous mandate, I have led the Patricia investigative committee, and I must say that we have come up with extremely interesting findings, even in those sessions that have taken place in closed work that I cannot talk about, but they are of exceptional importance and say a lot of things. Of course, Mr Zoran Jankovic, on the other hand, was an extremely suitable candidate because he was an excellent economist because he won the elections. This, Mr Jankovic, is not disputed and it is right to give you this opportunity, but it is important to be careful, because there are also some dark clouds of money laundering, suspicion of tax evasion, suspicion of land trading, suspicion of damage to creditors. But to the President of the State, it's obviously a matter of measure. If we have a candidate on one side who is in a structured affair in which we have been searching for evidence for about four years or five years now, then we had a candidate in this National Assembly a long time ago, who also has some suspicions, which are also a lot of talk, which was also discussed by the Commission of Inquiry in this National Assembly, and there have also been extremely interesting results. But this candidate is irreparable and excellent for the President of the country, and he has every confidence I can remember. I will, of course, support Mr Janez Janša as Prime Minister of the Government, because I am convinced that he has all the qualities to be able to lead the government successfully, bravely and decisively, even in the situation in which the country is in. I also believe that he will continue to form such a government that will first be able to stabilise the finances and establish such a level that, after a year and a half or two, we will be able to sail out of this crisis that we are in. Of course, many things will have to be taken away. I will also support Mr Janez Janša as Prime Minister of the Government because he has proved himself an excellent leader during the Presidency of the European Union. It is also appreciated by European leaders. This is still extremely important today when the country is not in a pink situation and we will need partners outside Slovenia. Undoubtedly, John Janša is a man in this 20 - year political space who leaves no one cold. Someone might like it, someone less, they leave mixed feelings, but they certainly don't leave anyone cold. But for 20 years it's been continuously through the media, which we know how most of them have been positioned all this time, and then it's also demonized in public. We have also heard this a number of times today from debates between Members and Members. Authoritarian leader. Although he only wants to put this country in order. I am convinced that this is what citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia want. But that's the way it is in this country. I am sure, even in view of his speech today, which he gave at the outset, which was significantly wider than his predecessor's speech a few weeks or fourteen days ago when he was a candidate for Prime Minister, I am convinced that this is the best solution for this country right now. But it is so that, especially in the left political field, because of the preservation of the privileges that some have had for years and years, since 1945, I will not dispute about the half-lived history, because I do not want to, although other colleagues have started it, but it does not seem important and priority to me. Priority is given to establishing a healthy economy. But all must be done, only that John Janša does not come into power. That's the only target left in 20 years. And I read in one of the forums, and I thought it was an interesting idea: on the left we would do anything, only if Janez Janša did not come into power, even Mika Misko would be supported by the Prime Minister, even though this is American. I don't think it's right to laugh at ideas like that, but they're still real. Also, many of the talks that have been triggered in the last week point to this. I will support the candidate for Prime Minister Janez Janša because I have confidence that his government will finally establish order in this country to restore people's confidence in the institutions of the rule of law and also in politics. If we want to do this, we need to make some key cuts. For example, we must step on economic crime, with corruption and customerism in this country, although the former candidate for Prime Minister Mr Zoran Jankovic says there is no corruption in this country. Although all experts, including those with round tables on the subject, agree that corruption is a major problem in this country. Finally, because of corruption in the previous term, one of the ministers also resigned. I am confident that the Prime Minister will form such a government that will function well. Everything will not be nice, beautiful, difficult moments will be present, it is difficult to maintain all coalition partners to finally lead to some good decision for the Slovenian country and Slovenian nation. I believe that if we are optimistic, if we are positive, as they say in Positive Slovenia, then we will succeed. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Melita Zupevec. Get Mr. Matjaž Han ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think the concerns of my colleague Eva Irgle are too great. Janez Janša is coming to power. Today I listened carefully to the speech of the candidate for future Prime Minister of the Government. My modest comment is that the future president of the government has apparently stuck in the past. No concrete commitments, no optimistic outlook in the future, no concrete projects, just talking in principle about the stabilisation of public finances, the start of economic growth and the creation of new jobs, and in particular about saving. So there may not be another comparison. Date 23. 11. 2004 bears a contract that has also been signed by four parties signing political commitments for the future today. One party was missing, but otherwise they were the same political actors with similar commitments as we hear and see today. Economic growth, improving the tax environment, more cost-effective public spending, a stable system of pension and health care, better functioning of the rule of law, combating corruption and customerism, above all, leading by example. They also advocated a gradual and transparent withdrawal of the country from the economy. In 2008, when we drew the line over this mandate, we also had record inflation with high economic growth. Active anti-inflation measures would allow for lower inflation than they were. The reckless tax reform has abolished the investment relief. Today, I see that this investment relief is coming back into some new coalition contract. This reckless tax reform, according to the Chamber of Commerce, increased the efficient taxation of businesses at that time. The tax reform also abolished 4% of the tax relief to address the housing problem. 145 thousand 825 taxpayers were deprived of this relief. The highest grade was the most burdened with income. Since the beginning of 2005, economic growth has been based on increased indebtedness and so on. We have also been extremely poor in drawing on European funds. During the 2004-2008 term, most of the acquisitions took place throughout the history of independent Slovenia, and in particular, which is also crucial for today's economic and financial crisis, we expected to be completely unprepared. Today, someone has already mentioned the balance sheet of this mandate — damage to state property. Luka Koper, we hear today, was injured by millions, the damage is supposed to be more than 100 million euros. The case of Intereurope, the Slovenian steel industry was highlighted and not to mention further, Mercury, Iskraemeco, Alpine, Iskra, Jelovica and so on. I therefore ask the question here why citizens and citizens would believe that the same actors will do otherwise in another attempt. Why would they believe it would be better this time if it was worse for the first time? And why would they take the floor when they saw clearly these days that the word in this policy was no longer valid? It has been heard several times today that you have been called a coalition for a way out of the crisis. I would say that this is a coalition that has also contributed to the crisis. In May 2001, Janez Janša said that early elections seemed to be an elegant way out of the current political situation. Today you are all talking about how Slovenia has decreased its rating, how the number of unemployed has increased, how our debt has been reflected, while some have been engaged in political over-acting in this country. In the moments that were crucial for this country, for the fate of Slovenia, for citizens and citizens, when they were key structural reforms, some thought only about one side, that is how to get into power. I'm interested in another thing. Why in the days that were serious already in 2009, not just today, in the times that called for action, after reforms, why did some call for three times no, three times against, against pension reform, against the government, against the measures that were necessary for this country? Now that I've read one of the versions of your coalition contract, I believe it's real, it's not fake or something else. I must say that I have been moved by how many beautiful, beautiful words on the first page about connectivity and constructiveness, respect for those who think differently, denial of personal discredits, intolerances and insults, on the basis of truthfulness, on the just and effective functioning of the rule of law, and on leadership by example and criteria for the personal composition of the government: good knowledge of the core, professional competences, personal integrity. By the names that appear in the media, I hope to say that this government will be most politically, read and write, cliently profiled of all, if you have set as the first criterion that each of the presidents of the coalition parties will also be the minister, I wonder, given the decline in the number of resources, how many seats will be left for experts in this government, for those of you in these difficult times, and this is what you are always stressing, so much needs. I think this government is starting with a poor journey, with a journey of current circumstances, with a journey of some kind of political dribbling. Last time someone asked me an interesting question. He asked me, "Do you have any idea what it would be like if Janez Janša won the elections and the government was composed of Zoran Jankovic?" I prefer not to answer that question — impossible. I think this man answered his own question. Today, as has been said, many views of the past, we have heard a lot of statistics. The forecasts of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development can be found on their website. I also looked at them before the candidate mentioned them, and they show a slightly wider picture than the one that was painted. Slovenia is not in the oasis and Slovenia is part of the European Union and is fighting as other countries are fighting more or less successfully. And at the end of the day, I'd say just one more thing. Let me paraphrase a river, but before I say that, maybe one thing. Earlier, a fellow Virant spoke about how well they had been negotiating in another coalition, how, according to the number of seats they had in the National Assembly, the percentages they received in the elections had been maximized. It just doesn't hold. It's a simple deception. I'm going to say out loud what the cut was like in another possible coalition. The positive Slovenia belonged to 5 ministerial cities, SD – 3, the National Gazette of Gregor Virant – 3 and the customer DeSUS – 2. I believe that some of you can count very well, so you know that in some other combination Mr Virant has argued significantly better. In addition, it was explicitly agreed that the National Gazette of Gregor Virant belonged to the Ministry of Finance and Home Affairs and that the National Gazette of Gregor Virant would retain the City of the National Assembly. So much for it to be black on white, and it will be written in a magnetogram, what was actually agreed and what now, the day after that, is spoken to the public. And as I say, just one more thing. I looked at your new coalition contracts. I listened carefully to what you were saying in those days, and I would paraphrase a famous river, and I would translate it into Slovenian: "If I didn't know you, I would pay you dearly." I already know you, so I will not vote for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor, Mr Janez Ribič is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respectable candidate for a term of office, respected colleagues and colleagues! I must say, according to Eve and Meliti, it's very difficult to perform, but still. It is interesting today to listen to these debates, in particular to the central policy when it speaks of principle, when it speaks of honesty, when it is moralised and when it is particularly national. That is why I like Mrs Melita's conclusion when she touched Mr Virant and his list. First of all, I will not support Mr Janša as a mandate-holder, even though I know that Slovenia urgently needs a government, a government that will be operational, which will make difficult decisions. And since I have heard today from the speakers, especially from the leaders of the parliamentary groups, Mr Janša has enough votes to be able to form a government, I, as a Member of the Social Democrats, wish him to do all the good for the Slovenians and Slovenians, for the citizens and citizens, and, unlike his party in the previous term, we will help the Social Democrats in making the most difficult decisions and will not overthrow the government from minute to minute. Today it was heard a lot about content, but on A4 format it is possible to write a lot of things, but in life they count the actions and count the results in life. That is why these results are likely, given the situation not only in Slovenia, but in general in Europe and the world, to achieve a little bit more if we do not really all come together, all the parties together, and watch the well-being of our people in particular. My choice was Mr Jankovic as a mandate-holder, for a simple reason because he won the elections, but that is not the main reason that I saw in him some knowledge of the economy and the results he had. We have known Mr Janez Janša for 20 years, one of the last 12 years, and we cannot tell him that he is not a successful politician. However, the actions he did during his term of office when he led the government are not the most enjoyable or convincing to me. Today it has been most heard by all of you in the economy what needs to be done for the economy, and it is in this area that I think that Mr Janez Janša has made the most mistakes in that mandate. Most of all, because it's human resources back then, I'm not going to say tsunamis, but with human resources solutions, I'm going to do a lot of damage to the Slovenian economy or to the best companies we've ever had. To the positions of CEOs, the presidents of the administration brought their most loyal, I apologize, soldiers who, apart from the image of their President, brought nothing else to the company, no content, but took a lot of money, and made great mistakes. Colleagues have already told which companies they were, and I think a mistake was made at the time. And if he learns something from that mistake, then maybe I can be a little more positively surprised. Another issue that is very controversial, however, is the privatisation or takeover of companies that did not benefit us at the time, because we created or created the tycoons and they destroyed the most healthy companies that show us these cores in these difficult economic conditions today. So I have to say I'm the most concerned here. Therefore, Mr Janša, when you are changing some people, because some people need to be replaced, I must say this, especially in the banking sector, especially look at the expertise and not the belongings of your client. Now, there are only two other things about principle — with which I started at the beginning — among the middle parties. Mr Virant was an expert in the previous term as a professor and did not take advantage of the opportunity not to moralise, not to professionally assess the previous government, the previous president, how ineffective he is, how indisputable he is, how weak the government is, and so on, how politics plays in such ways, but Mr Virant, with his client, demonstrated in 14 days what he knows what he can do. I don't think any policy has been able to destroy the parties in 14 days. And when he said one of the main reasons that he did not go to Mr Jankovic's coalition – because Mr Jankovic and Mr Borut Pahor had started something and so on, I think he was not at all involved and he doesn't know what they were talking about and none of us knows, but the media wrote about how Mr Janš and Mr Virant argued, but it was probably not a problem for Mr Virant. Mr Virant made a correctional exam, a mistake he made before the elections, when he stepped out of the party or when he went his way, he was now correcting. And yet I want this coalition, which today appears to be successful. I won't stand by her side on this mission, but I won't. I will support all the reforms that the Social Democrats and the previous government have foreseen need to be done. Mr Janez Janša, I wish you, given the result, we anticipate this, happy, because happiness will also be needed in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor to prepare Mrs Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u52	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable candidate for the term of office of the Government, honourable Members and gentlemen! Before making important decisions, I always wonder whether I am answering the question of life by my own actions. Over the past few months, many of us and many important factors in the country have dealt with the future Prime Minister of the Government in a totally lifeless way. Overnight, they tried to create, create a personality that would defeat the main favorite in the elections. That's intolerable, lifeless. The person to lead the country is built and confirmed over many years, decades, but today it is possible with the power of the media and national state-of-the-art authority to create a social excellence, an ally and also a candidate for the Prime Minister of the Government. And that's what happened. And the first test confirmed that the media image of the relative winner did not match his life view, so he did not provide any minimal support among the electorates of the people. Today we are back to the question of life. I would be more pleased to see in recent years a person who will lead the country even more confidently than we expect from today's candidate. He didn't. That is why every deviation from today's candidate is completely lifeless. Inanimate answers to life’s questions are always harmful, and they can be tragic. That is why we will have to – for the future of the country – mentally reshape the responses of the President of the Republic to reality. The non-recognition of legitimacy to the candidate could be welcomed if he offered a better solution through his proposal, provided on higher ethical criteria. However, to refer only to the legal and formal dimension of the judicial procedure, but to a complete disregard of the fact that burdens another candidate, obviously his favorite, means denying the idea of justice and non-lifelessness. That's why I'm voting for the candidate, and I'm calling on everyone to do this. It's simply an answer to the question that life poses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! Slovenia needs sufficient knowledge, experience, will and patience to overcome the difficult economic situation, the economic and financial crisis, as well as the crisis of personal values. Mr Zoran Jankovic, President of Positive Slovenia, presented such a programme on 11 January this year. Today, too, we had an opportunity to hear a presentation of the government's programming designs, the candidate for Prime Minister Ivan Janez Janša. I am pleased that today, when we look at the priorities in Slovenia, when we look at the presentation of one programme, another programme, we find that we are together, together, to the extent that we all want to achieve the following goals: economic growth, new jobs, quality transport links to Slovenia, such as the 3rd and 4th development axes, and in particular we want to work for the well-being of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Surely our electorates and voters of each of us, each of the political parties, look differently. Expectations were probably different. And if we look at life as such — in the lives of many important people, movements have made life easier for modern - day humans. These are innovators, developers, as many colleagues and colleagues have already talked about the economy today, or as my colleague mag has been saying. Stanko Stepichnik. However, this is much more difficult to define in politics, as every time changes are made too often on the basis of the desire, desire and ambition of power, even with demonstrated trust. It is always necessary to bear in mind the great responsibility and responsibility for possible incorrect decisions, the consequences of which are, unfortunately, the most common people, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who are often on the verge of survival, especially in areas that are far from major economic and urban centres. Growing a vine requires a lot of love, patience, and visions for the future. I also wish a set of these virtues to the future Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Ivan Janez Janša, and a later ministerial team, and especially constructive cooperation with the constructive opposition, which, if so, will be represented by Positive Slovenia. The most important thing is actually working for the well-being of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Above all, in Positive Slovenia, we want to be country-efficient and constructive for the welfare of the life and work of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who trusted us in the greatest number.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. Get Mrs. Janja Klasinc ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u56	Dear Members and Members! It was no coincidence that we were in the early elections on 4 December 2011. These elections have been led by an inefficient government that has ruled us so far, which has not been able to deal effectively with the challenges of the economic crisis, which began in 2008, which has lasted and lasted. The measures adopted by the previous government at the outset indicated that it did not understand the depth of the crisis. Remember the measures we took when we took some financial assistance to companies to wait temporarily for workers to work, to reduce working time - these were measures that lasted six months. So, at the time, the government thought that the crisis would last six months. A lot of money was spent on people not working, but there were no measures for economic activity, to increase the functioning of economic operators. The figures shown in the introduction are the figures of the official institutions of this Government and reflect the actual situation during these years. So the early elections were not a coincidence, they were a result, a completely simple result of the fact that the government was not able to face the situation. That is why the crisis has deepened in both the economic, social and, finally, the political sphere. And, of course, we are before we form a different government. Now those who have ruled us in this or another party's image explain to us how the previous mandate was weak, especially in the economic field, although it is more than clear that all numbers, international comparisons and, last but not least, independent opinions of both domestic and foreign economists say the opposite. Slovenia was at the time coming to Europe, consolidating public finances, having a flat budget, record low unemployment and, of course, the results are clear, well-known and are not only seen by those who, of course, have some political glasses in front of their eyes and, of course, do not see through them, except what is drawn from the inside of those glasses. So again we get a mandate holder who knew at a time that was different from the present, in a time of better economic conditions to upgrade this situation, so Slovenia grew faster than others, reducing the backlog of others, while in a mandate that expires, we unfortunately increased again. We are actually getting a mandate-holder who does not accept this challenge as some personal challenge, if that's some new experience in a life I don't know, it's respectable and I'm going to do it. No! No! Mr. Janez Janša knows what it is to be a mandate-holder, he was four years old. He knows that in the circumstances that await us, this personally causes many, many problems, denials, not least the lack of time for everyone around him and, of course, the commitment to the state or situation in which the state is located and the outcome of these situations. Slovenia is therefore at a time when a single mandate-holder cannot find a solution, and we must help him all, including this Parliament, and therefore, respectable colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, would be pleased to try to find common nominees in these key areas, which have been mentioned – the area of consolidation of public finances, the area of economic activity and the creation of new quality jobs in the country. We have an ideal opportunity and, of course, we who are now making a coalition are also responsible. I would, of course, like to see that you are part of the responsibility, of course, in a smaller form, including all the others who co-decision in this high assembly. Your Honor, we have a hard job ahead of us. It's probably gonna be hard to turn the numbers up, but we have to. We have to because we want this Slovenia good. And we also need them because I believe that nobody here cares what happens tomorrow, and we are aiming to improve the situation before any other, in particular the personal objectives. I will be happy to support the mandate-holder and also all that leads Slovenia from the situation it is in.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Klasinc has the floor. Get Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u58	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! It is certainly possible to agree with everyone who knows that Slovenia today needs a capable, determined and experienced man at the head of the new Slovenian government, who would guarantee with his knowledge and achievements that he will be able to cope with the economic crisis, which is undoubtedly the greatest in the modern history of this world. That is why most Slovenian voters chose an experienced manager and not an experienced politician at the elections. This was certainly not the case, because experienced politicians have tried to deal successfully with economic problems several times, and this has not been the best for them. Voters are always right, we say. Well, then in this house this decision was overplayed, with a thoughtful game of political poker. That is why today we are deciding on the mandate of someone else – Mr Janez Janša. Today we have heard a great deal from the candidates for the term of office on his political experience and on the leadership of the government in the 2004-2008 mandate. Slovenia was indeed commended at the time for our Presidency of the European Union. But they weren't just compliments. At the time, Slovenia received reports of human rights violations – remember the deleted, Roma, the reduction of media freedom and the staff cleansing of other thinkers. In this mandate, the government of Janez Janša increased Slovenia's external debt by more than €10 billion at the time of prosperity. Today, on paper, he promises that there will be no more debt. And this is also for those things that sometimes require responsibility, of course, in combination with European funds, for example. When the crisis began years ago, I well recall my first days in the previous Congress, fellow Members of the previous SDS laughed at all of us and the mandate-holder Borut Pahor when he said that there was a serious economic crisis in Europe and the world. At that time, you denied, colleagues, the crisis, and then, when this coalition has tried to solve this crisis, even in my opinion, not always the most successful, but trying to solve it, you have successfully mined all the attempts. Therefore, I cannot understand how someone who has rejected all reforms can today reform Slovenia. These are past experiences. I was expecting to hear something else today. The opening speech, almost an hour's speech by the candidate for the mandate, has convinced me, and we still don't know how we're going to get out of this crisis today. For an hour we listened to the summary report of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis on the state of Slovenia, Europe and the world. Most of the Members we are sitting here, I am sure that we are facing this situation very seriously and that we know it. And most Slovenians also know that today is a crisis. I would only compare this introduction, if you remember, with the introduction of our candidate, Mr Jankovic, who did not speak so much about the state itself, but said how he intended to resolve this crisis. The second great burden that I see and, of course, I cannot support this candidate for a term of office is the legal indictment in the case of Patria, which Mr Janez Janša has in Slovenia. This is a burden not only on his shoulders, but also on the shoulders of the entire party. In doing so, I would like to warn all those who have warned today that these are constructions, that a person may be able to believe because until a person is convicted, of course, he is innocent. But let us not forget that the trials are also taking place in Austria and Finland. But to be a construct in all of Europe, it'll be harder for someone to convince me. Nor would I equate this legal indictment with various suspicions and investigations of other political figures in Slovenia, including our President. You know, there's a suspicion, there's more to the investigation, but, excuse me, a legal indictment is a serious matter. This is, of course, legal with us in Slovenia. Someone who's in this process can run for the highest cities. In my personal opinion, this is not legitimate. And in my personal opinion, that's not moral. And I'll tell you why. Years ago, I was running as a state official for a high-ranking official in the government. And after a recent law on civil servants, written by Mr Virant, I had to bring not only a certificate of impunity but also a confirmation that I am not in any criminal proceedings, that I am not being investigated for not being treated. That is to say, for a higher official, you must be spotless, for the President of the Government, for a Member of Parliament, and for the President of the country you can also be soiled in our country. I don't think that's right, and I think it's our joint task to remove such an anomaly in the future. But now I'd like to move on to a coalition contract that you and your coalition partners have written. I've read it very carefully in the last two days, and I have to say that I run into a lot of contradictions and some pretty unfulfilled promises. For example, Slovenia is expected to benefit from lower taxes, smaller contributions and other various facilitations and, on the other hand, measures are proposed to help in a semi-destructed economy to come out of the economic crisis. Some are welcome, I will not say anything, and I welcome them, again others are those who will be able to bring this economy into even greater crisis. But you don't have to be a doctor of science, that when you do all of this, you see that there will be less money in the budget on such proposals. And if there's less money, what's he gonna run out of? It will be lacking for the social state, for what the Constitution provides for citizens and citizens of this country. And what's the difference? Probably in private pockets. I'm worried about one more thing. This pension reform, if I understand correctly, has already warned my colleague, Mr. Maglicheva, that you think that pension reform is not necessary. In my opinion, it is very urgent. But the thinking that goes into this coalition just to put working time together as a condition for a full pension, that is 40 years, is in my opinion very harmful in today's situation. Why? Look, today young people are mostly uneducated, most of them have diplomas. And if you look at an intellectual who's about 30 years old today with an completed diploma, he's probably just starting his job or he hasn't even gotten it yet. And when will he retire? If he's 30 today, he'll retire at 70, 75. Is this what we want to have on the one hand worn out old women who will no longer be able to perform difficult tasks, and on the other hand intellectuals, young, full of elans who will be out of jobs? I think we need to think seriously about this reform and make it possible to make a social note, as already discussed by colleague Meglič. I wouldn't even discuss other proposals in this coalition, except one that made me very happy by DeSUS when they proposed a new 4th income class for the richest. This was also my three-year proposal in my previous party, with the Social Democrats, and unfortunately it was not accepted. In the coalition talks, positive Slovenia agreed with this proposal. We would have accepted it and arranged it so that the richest would really pay for it. As I very carefully read this coalition contract, DeSUS failed in the new coalition. Now we're going to think of it as the richest, that's what those who have 8, 10, 15 thousand euros a month, just a tax on luxury. What is luxury? It's an unspecified category. If they're yachts, someone can report them to somewhere else, not Slovenia. And let me finally talk about what I believe is the irresistibility of this coalition paper, by the area for which I am most qualified – foreign policy. I know that foreign policy is not the most important thing in this crisis, but this chapter says something about how to write. Let's see, I quote, what the Treaty says, "the coalition will reduce the number of diplomatic consular representations, especially in EU countries, to open them up," I stress, "diplomatic representations in the BRICS countries and others outside European countries." The BRICS countries, we know that they are Brazil, Russia, India and China. And now let's see where the country of the Republic of Slovenia has its diplomatic consular offices. In all of these four countries, he's had them for years, but he's probably been here copying pasta from some old programs. Let's see, we opened our embassy in Brazil in 2010, and there are two other consulates operating there. In Russia, we have had our embassy since 1992, as well as two consulates. The Slovenian Embassy in India has been operating for 10 years, since 2002, three consulates have been in India. And finally China. The former Foreign Minister Žbogar has already handed over to the authorities there a letter of confidence from the Republic of Slovenia as a young business administrator from 1993 onwards. And this is where we're supposed to open our new embassy?Oh, my God! We've got it all. It is similar with the objectives of economic diplomacy and development aid. Both are very successful at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It's been set up a long time, but it's developing successfully. Now, the coalition would like to propose that this move to other departments. For the first time, good experience and what works well, it is foolish to put it elsewhere, on the other hand, contrary to the 1963 Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, whereby economic diplomacy is one of the fundamental duties of diplomatic consular representations. Ladies and gentlemen. I would ask you not to sell us some goals, something that has worked successfully for a decade or more. Please don't make fun of our coalition agreement, too. She really didn't have 77 page buttons, but we didn't do copy paste, but we were setting the right targets for Slovenia. That is why I understand that you understand that I will not confirm the mandate.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Kavtičnik has the floor to prepare the mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Chairman. Hello, everyone! I listened attentively to the presentation of the candidate's programme for Prime Minister, perhaps also future Prime Minister of the Government, and somehow I would have believed him if I hadn't known him before or if I hadn't heard him before. However, Ivan Janez Janša's candidacy as President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will not be supported for a simple reason, which appears to be written also in the Slovenian river What Janezek learns, Janezek also knows. And everything he knows, we can see and feel, because, as we have already heard today, politics has been a constant in Slovenian politics for 20 years. He had many opportunities to prove, many times at the centre of attention, even in the face of various affairs. Therefore, it is normal that the President of the State did not offer him a candidate for a term of office, since the suspicion and crime, as we have heard or the criminal procedure, are not equal. We already know his political behavior, but we also know that he is extremely unpredictable and he is used to doing things differently than he speaks. It is an exceptional strategy to establish a situation "all against everything", when it is not in power. The candidate for President of the Slovenian Government is known for demanding military discipline – today I have heard that this is good – which he is trying to transfer to all areas of life and work in our country. I don't support his direction, his work and his philosophy, he's not acceptable to me, because I'm sure he's blocking creativity and because otherwise thinking people don't have an opportunity for affirmation. Therefore, the proposed person will not take part in my vote, but we have had a great opportunity here in the National Assembly to get for the President of the Government a person who has not yet been politically infected is an operative, a team worker, persistent and has an excellent sense of law and business decision. This has already been proven in practice many times. I am convinced that the president of the winning team of this year's early elections, Zoran Jankovic, is the one who should have given him the opportunity to bring into our policy a new culture and a different way of working than we have received and practiced so far. I am sure that our citizens would deserve this. Our people, the workers deserve to be paid a fair price for their honest work, we have heard that too. But I don't believe it, I don't believe it, because even at this meeting, I've had some lies in this term. People in our country deserve such policies and a government that will speak less and work more. They deserve employers who will respect the opportunity for people to prove themselves regardless of their political affiliation or world view. Under the government of Zoran Jankovic, no one should be afraid if he said his thoughts, he could vote in his conscience, and he should not be ashamed if he made a different decision than their leader. Zoran Jankovic respects all people, including those who are different and not the majority. I'm sorry that you played the opportunity to cooperate and work with Zoran Jankovic as Prime Minister of the Government. With this you have lost the opportunity to help our country, citizens and citizens to heal the economy more quickly, to create better conditions for their lives and to live in a country where there would be no fear, where there would be a special emphasis on Slovenian culture, the preservation of Slovenian tradition and the acquisition of national liberation struggle, free education. Today, we have heard that this coalition treaty also states that all children or young people will have the same starting points for and in education. This can only be done if we have free education. And it's really free that all programs can be free. But I can't imagine how we'll be able to offer equal opportunities when we record in the same note that we will give more emphasis to the privatisation of education. We can't sell out state property. Human tolerance must be increased and, of course, improved. With much more tolerance to think differently, we must begin immediately, not with words, but with actions. I am sure that you will soon realize that more than your goals are important ways to achieve the desired goals. Zoran Jankovic can choose paths that are safe for people and that we are never alone. Join the positive thinking people. I've heard of it today, and I believe it's a lot like that. There's still time, you're always welcome, and you'll always be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u61	The word has magic. Majda Potter. Prepare yourself, Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Mr Ivan Janša introduced a presentation of programming designs with the thesis "Times are serious, but they are not extraordinary." Now I don't know what happened at this time, aside from the early elections, that the thesis is completely different. It is true that Mr Ivan Janša did not often sit and listen to the performances of his fellow Members, but the speech went all the way towards presenting the apocalyptic conditions and chaos that was supposed to reign in this country, and also by acting in this direction, that confidence in many institutions of the country has been waved, we have come where we have come. Voters and voters will decide whether their expectations of the Messiah were justified or not, but some more water will have to flow. When we talk about the thesis "Times are serious but they are not extraordinary" – this was actually the issue of Borut Pahor and Social Democrats, even in the pre-election period. How others reacted to it, I don't know, but to say that today we monitored the data that came from state institutions and official data, that we didn't represent them before, but it's a little too bad, because everything we had in our hands we got from the same institutions that you got. Now it's just another fix. Mr Ivan Janša said that it was probably because sociologists were the ones who presented some of the data that it was not seen that sociology and diplomats were in society more than in nature and in other ways. Yeah. I don't know what he was taking into his hands, but I've been reading statistics for a long time from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, where everyone can learn about how the entries and diplomas move in individual study directions. It is true, however, that we have also set up a new private institution, a college or something else within the 2004/2008 mandate, which meant duplication of programmes. Now we'd like to have some sophisticated scientists and engineers at one time. This encouraged me to take a look at what the Coalition Treaty said about this. And I must say, these statements sound a little ominous. There is not one word in the Higher Education Programme or in the Science Programme about humanities or social science. I know that we can say that the programme, the coalition commitment, comes with those things that will be a priority and everything else will be a priority, but why would it have to be written in a coalition contract to reform the National Quality Agency in higher education, which has not been established for so long, will of course require the replacement of the current corporate composition of the NAKVIS world with autonomous experts. Doesn't that sound familiar? I think we will once again spend a good part of our mandate on amending the legislation that will go all the way to the extent of the mandate that will take place. Well, it's no wonder, then, that we read that the resolution on the national development programme of higher education will have to be supplemented. Yeah, there's something missing here, no. You're not going to complement her, but you're going to change her. This is resolution 2011-2020, because what is enshrined in the coalition contract is in conflict with what is enshrined in the resolution. It's like we slept for a while. And now just the one about the same starting positions. You know, the context is always very important and we don't all have the same starting position because we come from different backgrounds. That is why it is so much more important – and here we are the Social Democrats as an alternative to this programme – because we claim that special attention should be given to socially disadvantaged environments and young people in these environments and that they should be given real quality education. But it says here we're going to lower standards and standards in kindergartens and schools. And I could tell you a lot more. But that's all I'm gonna do. The demographic picture has not changed anything, and the knowledge of the necessity of pension reform has changed, which, by the way, in the transitional provisions also had a gradual introduction. And this, about experience, you know, the more I read the coalition contract, it seems to me that some have forgotten that there have been several other years since 2008, that there has been a crisis in between, and that the experience of fat cows does not bring a lot of experience to deal with crisis situations. What I am reading is that the experience of privatising and looting public property in that mandate will now continue this path in the public sphere. That's what I'm worried about, and that's actually what I'm not going to back up Ivan Janša for.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u63	I invite Mr Jožef Jerovsk to the floor, and Mr Joseph Horvat is preparing himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Today we set up or we like the mandate holder for the composition of the new Slovenian government. And, of course, it is normal to open up a whole range of questions, because in some way every citizen of this country depends on the individuality of the mandate holder and his abilities. On many occasions, though, where I look, this repetition has been said to be seen. Unfortunately, I have to say that no one has promised that because they can't promise. I would be happy if you could repeat the period of a marked konjunkture when there was low unemployment when they were summer and enthusiasm in Slovenia. When everything went up. Unfortunately, the mandate holder couldn't promise you this, because he's dealing with a bad legacy, with a difficult situation. Today, in some segments, the candidate for Prime Minister had to recall Winston Churchill at the beginning of the war when he announced and promised his citizens tears, sweat and blood. At that time, the United Kingdom was in an emergency, and the war was about to begin. The candidate said today that the situation is not yet extraordinary. They're serious. And to this, the seriousness of the situation has also been presented by views on the existing mandate. What is very serious and disturbing in our country? That, in the face of such a severe crisis, we are constantly witnessing the abuse of internal information in state banks, supervisors are now withdrawing again. At Nova Credit Bank Maribor was recently replaced by the president. I have repeatedly warned the minister that he would abuse everything because it is his habit. But they switched, and he abused the inside information again. It's the same in the Ljubljana Bank again. So it was a power that didn't put up real supervisors. And state banks have become into horrendous debt that weighs down every Slovenian citizen. But despite such circumstances, they are very serious, but they are not a state of war. We have a fight to improve. Despite this situation, we are not able to present a coalition in this period before the elections, but even more so from the moment it turned out that the candidate for Prime Minister of the Government, a relative winner, is afraid of his habits and habits that we have witnessed stigmatisation and extremely poor speech at the expense of a candidate who has already proven himself. When we are here in Parliament today, I must say that I expect from the opposition to be established a strong opposition attitude, because this is the best remedy for any government – a strong, firm, sometimes harsh opposition that can be constructive. The opposition that will control the government, the Prime Minister of the Government, will not be impatient, hostile. But we have the assurance that she will be. I'm afraid some of the signs show otherwise. Madam, who is the strong founding pillar of Positive Slovenia and its President, has given the worst hate speech in Slovenia, I think, in a history where she simply claims that part of the Slovenians must be hated. From this, however, Jakič’s colleague dislocated somewhat. But I haven't seen the party president's dislocation. I must say, I was a little shocked when I went to Parliament today. In fact, I went out of the garage across the street, and about ten meters ahead I saw an MP from the future, let's hope, opposition benches. When I thought about how I was going to talk to him, when he was probably going to have to pull over on the pedestrian crossing, and he's going to have to pull over a little bit to encourage him, someone called this Member after me, apparently after a nickname, and then she ran past the MP, of course she didn't say hello to me – what hasn't happened to me in 16 years to be ignored in this way. But that's not what this is about. It's about customs, it's about culture. While I have experience that in every term there is a Member or a Member who does not heal, sometimes out of anger or hatred, but it seems to me that this is too early. At the same time, I remembered that a colleague had earlier talked about a new culture. At the start of the campaign, however, I recall Mr Jankovic saying that he would give the Slovenians new values. That's when it made me very angry. Slovenians have good traditional values and we do not need anyone telling us that Slovenians will change with new values. We must respect the values that the Slovenians possess. I hope we have such a period before us to reconfirm our values. Why, in my opinion, was fear among the Members of the various parties, even among those who at least verbally supported you? Mr Jankovic was also afraid of the prevailing centralisation of Slovenia. He spoke all the time during this period that Ljubljana was wrongly damaged and flourishing. He doesn't even know Slovenia. Others are problems, not in Ljubljana. Ljubljana is privileged, we must say, financially. I believe that his plan was to take the lead of the government, to quickly repay Ljubljana's debts and to remain permanently recorded as a very successful Ljubljana mayor. That was his goal. Legitimate target. However, Slovenians and MEPs have come to appreciate that this was a very bad programme, catastrophic for Slovenians, the centralisation of Slovenia would happen and, of course, they rejected it. That is why I will be the candidate for the Prime Minister of the Government, who has a very different program, and we already know that he can lead Slovenia in a positive direction towards the conjuncture, and I hope that in four years we can say, "We have just chosen." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u65	He didn't take your statement, so you can't get the word now, but he gets the word Mr. Joseph Horvat, and then Gaspar Gaspar Misic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, the distinguished candidate for President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, distinguished visitors! I am kind of pleased that we have been able to maintain a relatively high cultural level of our communication, our discussions up to this point. I also note that there is a rather serious atmosphere in the National Assembly today. The reasons are clear. The country's diagnostic review, summarized in five points, shows the following. First time. 7 % interest rate on 10-year government bonds. Another time. 100 % increase in government debt over the last three years. Third time. 8.1% of the real decline in GDP in 2009, one of the biggest declines in the European Union. Fourth time. We are the third slowest economic growth in the European Union. And a fifth. Double the number of unemployed since 2008 in the economy, while at the same time a 0.6% increase in the number of employees in the public sector. I didn't even mention the double drop in the credit rating from the election to yesterday. However, I would like to point out that New Slovenia was not involved in this. So it is a force that is a serious situation in the country. Seriousness is not necessarily just negative or depressing. It is good for Slovenia to finally have the first serious candidate to form a new government today. It has a concept of governance, a political strategy that is valued in Europe, which is particularly important in Europe, where we are Slovenians, citizens and citizens of Slovenia, at home. It is this Europe that sent us hope signals on 25 January on the date of the signing of the Treaties for Slovenia 2012-2015. The most visible European politicians have sent us congratulations, to the presidents of coalition parties and thus to all voters. Some congratulations are also made through social networks, which can be accompanied by millions of people. And we're back to being serious. Therefore, the European Union has already made it clear that it is taking the new coalition with all seriousness. I also expect – and in New Slovenia all – that this coalition will also be a partnership coalition. When we talk about structural, urgent structural changes, allow me a brief summary of my conversation with a number of years of the most successful Slovenian economists. We made a comparison between the Republic of Slovenia and Austria in the area of higher education. See, Austria has exactly 4 times the population of the Republic of Slovenia, the number of students in Austria is 247 thousand 800 in the 2010/2011 study year. In Slovenia we had 107 thousand 134 students in the study year 2010/2011. Austria should therefore have 430 000 students per Slovenian account, and not only 274. Austria therefore has only 63% of students according to Slovenian criteria. But there is no problem here, students, in fact, politics has made a problem that our young graduates have and do not find employment and then we face the collapse of young Slovenian personalities. Here's the problem. I think that's what the candidate for Prime Minister has been talking about. One more word, if you'll excuse me, about the insubordination of the Ministry of Culture. The Ministry of Culture does not end it, but we combine it according to the example of many European countries, but in Slovenia it is so, everyone would like to reduce ministerial resources, in a way that the number of ministerial departments will increase. We're back on the books, that's just not going to work! Look at the case of Germany, I don't want us to be as good as Germany, I want us to be better. Bundesregierung – Deutschland, the Federal Government in Germany does not actually have a specific cultural base, but the culture is taken care of by the 8th Department of the Ministry of Education and Research. This area has eight compartments. And back to Austria. The Austrian Federal Government also has a culture united in a department called education, art and culture. And speaking of culture, I would like to commend a colleague who is not here, Mr Borut Pahor. His minister, Mrs Majda Shirca, cancelled the national celebrations for the three national holidays, August 17th, September 15th, November 23rd. Comrade Kardelj said, "a nation that is ashamed of its past is not worthy of its future." And Mr Pahor, despite the fact that there was no national celebration for the 17th August Day of the merger of the Premurese Slovenes with the native nations, came to the congregational celebration in my congregation. And for that, I want to publicly commend him. I would also like to point out that the Act on relations between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians outside its borders provides that this 20% of the Slovenian national body has its minister. We cannot attribute and add the Ministry of Culture even though Nova Slovenija [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u67	Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič has the floor and he should prepare himself for the mag. Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u68	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I wish so much for this day to end so that we can start concrete work. I find that some of you are knowingly moving away from the truth that would be most useful to this country. Many of you are great at conspiring, many of you are really for somewhere else, not for here in the temple of democracy, because twenty years of citizens and citizens are waiting for a positive result and they have not met it. And for Mr. Jožet Jerovšek, when you didn't give your word to our President, Zoran Jankovic. Positive Slovenia was the first to propose participation in the profits of employees in companies. Only work and hard work can save us and drive us out of the crisis, as our President has repeatedly stressed in his speeches: "To do honor and power!" As I come from the coast where Positive Slovenia has won decisively, it is clear who the electorates and voters on the coast have chosen as a mandate-holder during the economic crisis. I do not see a candidate for a mandate, which I do not see, among us, Mr Janez Ivan Janša as one of Slovenia's deserving independents, but in times of economic crisis Slovenia does not need a defender but an economist. I want to believe that this option has not yet been exhausted and that you will see this through Members and Members, who, despite the party's appeal, still think with your head. The economic failure of Janez Ivan Janša is witnessed by the coastal economy in a sad and fateful period during the 2004-2008 mandate, when the key companies of the economy have gone into an unnecessary financial crisis due to mismanagement. Of course, it is the objective responsibility of the then mandate-holder who has taken the wrong human resources decisions, and it has been shown here that they have the incompetent capacity to incapacitate the incapacitated who caused John Janša to lose the elections. He trusted the wrong people. That is why the logical question now arises – What lies ahead of us in the mandate? I therefore hope that in the event of a confirmation for a mandate holder you will see this as a correctional examination, and if you are re-staffed, you will do so with great caution, of course, if you wish to implement the projected prosperity and economic growth. And if you do, I see no reason not to have the opposition's support. We don't have economic growth. We are in charge of financing the public sector, ladies and gentlemen, this is the wrong world. Instead of investing more rapidly in infrastructure at home, which is essential for the development of the economy in the past, our successful companies preferred to invest in the infrastructure of other countries, which has brought them to their knees. And look at the fraction, all of this happened in the 2004-2008 term, during the so-called period of fat cows. Many have lost their jobs, the national balance sheet is negative, the crisis is bigger from year to year. The opposition, which today consists of a coalition, opposed all reforms, demolished the government and, consequently, I hope to say, the country as well. The latter claim is confirmed by the programmes of all parties and also by the content of the coalition contract. All rejected reforms are now urgent and priority. Very interesting. Nevertheless, I want to believe today that we will be able to correct many mistakes and that we will be able to take responsibility for all the decisions we will make in this so-called temple of democracy. And let us not be modeled by politicians and experts who persist in refusing to accept the responsibility for poor governance of the country, as we have felt and yet feel all of us, from farmers, on the Coast of Fishermen, workers, pensioners, craftsmen, entrepreneurs, public servants, scientists, culturers and, if you will, also athletes. Let me talk to you about a few other things that might happen. I am afraid that this is now primarily about the authority and personal interests of individuals. That's what I'm particularly warning you about. In addition, it bothers me that I am increasingly aware that there are two truths in Slovenia – left and right, and we explain democracy in our own way. It also bothers me that the current coalition for Slovenia is very clever, but it is unacceptable to play with basic democratic principles and to interpret the key constitutional provisions in its interpretation. Let me quote only Article 3 of the Constitution, which states that in Slovenia has authority over the people. "Citizens and citizens shall execute it directly in elections on the basis of the principle of division of power into legislative, executive and judicial." You didn't respect the latter when the first law, the Government Act, was passed. In the ministries you have confused the executive and judicial branch of power, which is unacceptable to the profession and which we have warned you about both the members of Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats. With regard to the constitutional provision for the power of the people in Slovenia, the political fraud of the electorate and the electorate took place in the authoritarian drama. And not the alleged political corruption that you wanted to cover up the biggest fraud of voters and voters since the independence of Slovenia, this is also confirmed by recent surveys and the resignation of some prominent members of the Democratic List of Gregor Virant and the party DeSUS. Of course, here are the main actors, Mr Gregor Virant and Karl Erjavec, who have staged everything they can to cover that they are only concerned with the narrow interests of their own beliefs. It is not even about the interests of their parties, but even less about the interests of the electorate and the electorate that enabled them to be elected to the National Assembly. And to make everything even more interesting, Mr Virant does not want to join the government. Personally, he does not want to accept the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration, even proposed by the former Constitutional Judge, Mr Janez Čebulj. Of course, "out of the coma", it is better to be in the safe haven of the National Assembly, and to face the tooth crisis of others. I have not had more than 20 years of entrepreneurship and business careers, ladies and gentlemen, and playing political and business ethics. In order to achieve their own objectives, they were sacrificed first by Dr Marko Pavliha, followed by Mr Sorsak, and everything shows that Mr Šuštaršič is the next victim, and probably within a month, someone else who would not like to expose and appoint him. To conclude, let me accompany you with the words of the recipient of the recognition of the Persons of Primorska 2011 to doctors of Jadranka Vrh Jermančič, who said this today in Primorski Novice: "Too often talk only about money and politics. And the essence of life is moment, tiny but important things." Therefore, in the future policy, the password "Acts and not words" or in the language of the Italian national community "Fatti, non parole". And let us be aware that citizens and citizens do not need social support and even less charity, they only need work and fair pay for the work they have done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u69	Just an explanation. The Member shall receive a replica in the event that it is misinterpreted, but if it is only mentioned, it shall not. Now he's got the word [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, then, Mr Jerovšek, you will explain, but at the very point where he misquoted you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u70	Thank you very much. My colleague Gaspar Gaspar Mišič told me that I do not understand participation in profits or that they proposed it first. I must tell him that at the time of our government a law on participation was passed, a law on the participation of workers in profits. However, I am afraid that Mr Misic misinterprets and misinterprets participation in profit, or else I would not get exactly about it, about its financial work so much material. No other Member so much. And I'm afraid you're explaining that it's possible to get Members past the elections and that it's also a profit participation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u71	I ask the Members of Parliament and the Members of the Parliament not to stain the paper when they speak, because it all sounds on the microphone. My word, Mag. Boruta Ambrožič, and prepare Mrs Sonja Ramšak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Let me start positive, because I'm a good guy. That is why, at the outset, I say, as we have said several times in a favorable time, that I will personally, by my own conscience and judgment, support every point today of the so-called common denominator, but only on condition that it will be for the benefit of the citizens and citizens of our country. Unfortunately, in my explanation why I will not support the proposed candidate for Mr Ivan Janša's mandate, I must also start with some negative things. Allow me at the outset to express strong doubts, as you yourself said, Madam Vice-President, that today all Slovenia is looking forward to whether we will get a confirmed mandate holder or not, because I am sure that most Slovenians and Slovenes regret every day also because of the credits of the previous government dealing with everyday life, sometimes even existential issues. As a new Member in this call from the National Assembly, I find it very interesting to observe the comparative observations of colleagues and colleagues in the parliamentary benches, as well as the incredible ability of mathematical summation and deduction of self-declared mathematicians, which, of course, at least after the basic profession, are not. I'll have that in my eternal memory, too. Today, principles have also been mentioned several times. It is precisely because of the inadvertentities that I would call them, which have taken place in parliamentary movements following the December elections, that I cannot, of course, support the newly-initiated government or candidate for a term of office. Instead of the principle of honest dialogue offered by our candidate for term of office, Mr Zoran Jankovic unfortunately applied the principle of dishonesty, applying the principle of swallowing those words instead of the principle of conscientious decision-making, and of course could still be listed. It is true, it has also been said today, that everyone has in mind the image of an ideal policy, and it is more obvious that in the emerging opposition, if I call us that, we picture it as completely different than the possible confirmed coalition. Today, the representative of the National Gazette of Gregor Virant, or Dr Virant himself, mentioned the importance of the institution of the National Assembly. I would say that we must be aware that, as such, the National Assembly is just a building full of walls, marble, wood, installations and more, but it is up to the people who are active in this high temple of democracy whether it will impose this temple of democracy only in centimeters or in the form of state-of-the-art acts that are in the interest of all the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. Today I can't get past this because in this high temple of democracy the words of one of the Slovenian writers have been quoted several times, with only a negative sound, and allow me to quote again the officer who comes to my stand-up end when he mentions in the interview the words of the writer who says, "The child who is in distress has an immediate place in my heart. I will never deny him any help, nor will I ever tell him the help of an animal in distress. This is solidarity for all living." Allow me to add, at the conclusion of the explanation, why I will not support the proposal for the Prime Minister of the Government, as a member coming from the epicenter of the European Capital of Culture, Maribor, who elected three members of the Positive Slovenia, although no one has announced it to them, the words of one of the electorates with whom I had the opportunity to speak a few words a day ago, namely: "With the abolition of the Ministry of Culture, the emerging government has shown its culture of political non-culture." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u73	I invite Mrs Sonja Ramšak to the floor and Mr Franz Bogovic is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u74	Thank you so much for the president's word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished mandate-holder! Let me be positive at first, because I am a very positive person by nature, but I do not come from Positive Slovenia. I know Mr Janez Janša as a completely different person than you want to present to the public today. I can tell you that this has been happening for over 20 years. Why? Because one of the winners who helped bring this beloved Slovenia and us citizens and citizens to finally live in Slovenia, in a single country and not in another. When you say that you are an absolute winner, let me just point out some of the facts that you wanted to show completely different in your discussions. The positive Slovenia won 314 thousand 273 votes in this early elections, the Slovenian Democratic Party won 288 thousand 719 votes, and this means a difference in your favour: 25 thousand 554 votes, which means that this is not an absolute majority if we know how many voters and voters participated in these early elections and that the future emerging coalition has more than 600,000 votes. The only advantage that has been given to you, when you received a relative majority in these early elections, is that you were able to first propose a mandate as a mandate or that the President of the Republic has given a mandate to your President, Mr Jankovic. Everything else is a matter of consensus and the decision of us, Members and Members. Mr Janez Janša and all the other presidents of the four coalition parties succeeded in what you failed to do – they assured the majority in the National Assembly. I believe that this majority will also prove itself today when we vote. I believe that no one forced us to vote, so a replica of a colleague who said we were voting the way we were supposed to. No, I never vote the way I've been set up, but I vote the way I choose or the way I choose to vote. And I have not been voted by the voters and voters to vote in favour of your term of office, but by the Slovenian Democratic Party for the term of office. If I am allowed to briefly, because I like to be very rational in my speeches, all I can say is why Mr Janez Janša is going to get my vote today. Because I know him as a completely different person – an exceptional, warm, democratic person who respects the culture of dialogue and who does not condemn people in advance. You know, the Slovenian Democratic Party also often tells us, "Don't judge people, courts are for punishing and condemning people, and only then do you have the right to condemn people." And so today, I will tell you why we did not decide at our previous meeting to comment on the actions of your President and of the then candidate for term of office – because we respected the decision of the electorate and the electorate that you have the right to form a government. However, you have failed, and of course I am sorry if your candidate has failed what has been done to our President. And I believe that today Slovenia will breathe with full lungs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u75	Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor. Mr. Matevž Frangež should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u76	Nice greeting, Madam Vice President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am alone in Parliament after three years of my previous mandate, and I can say calmly that in the Slovenian People's Party, in the entire previous term, we have warned of the chakras that Slovenia has inherited following the global crisis and that the truth must be addressed in a timely and appropriate manner. Unfortunately, in our previous term in the National Assembly, we dealt on the one hand with disputes and also with disagreements within the coalition, on the other hand, by objecting to reforms in the part of the opposition, including fierce opposition to trade unions. And today we have a situation such as the candidate for the term of office, Mr Janez Janša, presented at the beginning of his performance. I think it is right to say out loud and firmly what the state is like. Unfortunately, what was said is the truth. This will need to be done properly both within the coalition and within the opposition, throughout the political space and in cooperation with the social partners. It is likely that all citizens and citizens of this country will have to submit and act accordingly. So I don't think it's a waste of time if the candidate for a terminator pours us pure wine to start from here seriously and responsibly with our work. People in Slovenia are already impatient. We've spent a good two months getting the government to start serious work after the early elections. There's no point in talking about what's been going on in these two months, because you've already spoken eloquently. I myself believe that today the candidate for a mandate will be elected, that in a relatively short time we will also get the government and start serious work. People expect that from us. They expect us to stop digging in the past. They expect us to ensure the future for young people to enjoy tomorrow. And for that we will have to make every contribution – both the opposition and the coalition. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, which will support today's mandate, as we have said, I can peacefully say that, in the next term, we will strive to do our job honestly, everyone in our area, to respect the word given, as we have done in the past, and that we will work as politicians for the public good and that we will put the public interest at the forefront of any other interest. Unfortunately, the effort that some in politics are making to prove who is worse than whom is not the way that Slovenia will be better, by which we will have more Slovenians and Slovenians, but I firmly believe that we must all work together to make this country more effective, to make the country more effective, by this quality, by which the Slovenians know that the work will be valuable and that people will also be happy to accept the work that will be available. In the Slovenian People's Party, as I have already said, we will support the mandate-holder. We expect to be a government party in this mandate. All we expect from the opposition is that there will be some opposition like we did in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u77	Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor and then Mr Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u78	Respected and respected! I think that Slovenia today is in a situation that requires sober reflection from all of us, knowledge of the situation and good will for mutual cooperation regardless of the divisions that are common in this political space and have become part of a stable political folklore, which often makes it impossible for us to come together when it is in the interest of the State. I am pleased to invite Janez Janša from two weeks ago when he called on the Social Democrats to finally overcome historical division and join his coalition. Unfortunately, we can only find that this call is placed if we show our support for it by going beyond historical differences. So today is a difficult time, and much will depend on the National Assembly. When reading the coalition agreement, I am first disturbed by the duality of the big words under which many of us immediately sign, and the practice of one mode of operation, which we have been accustomed to in the National Assembly and in Slovenian politics since part of Slovenian politics, and which puts on disqualification, which puts on intolerance, which puts on encouraging differences that society exists when it is such a political goal. I wish it were different this time. I sincerely wish Janez Janša a successful president of the next Slovenian government. Not because of the credits he will be able to sing on his shoulders as the savior of Slovenia from this situation, but because Slovenia deserves it and because Slovenia desperately needs it. At the same time, when I want its success at many of the points of the coalition commitment that I can agree with, I wish that the next government has not been successful at many points of this same coalition commitment, which I think are harmful and extremely dangerous for the country. I want John Janša to be to all of us who question his interrelationship, who think about him all of what we think he will prove to us that he is different, that he is interlinked, that he is constructive, that he wants to work for the common good and all of the things that are soundly pressed in the coalition contract. I want him to prove to us that the goal is not to devote money and that the government is not the only goal. However, according to the experiences that we have experienced with this nation – not only Slovenian politics, but the people with John Janša – have already had, I doubt this result. But I will be extremely, extremely happy, and then I will also publicly admit that I was wrong and that Janez Janša is different and that Slovenia has shown that he is capable of a different type of government. The fundamental character of Slovenia is in its solidarity. In some points this non-ideological coalition promises to withdraw from ideology, but you are wrong to think that the topic of partisans and patriots is the only ideology in this country. The fate of the pension system is also an ideological theme. And it is very important to me, even though the individualisation of pension insurance would possibly represent progress for some of my generation's members, this would mean an even worse situation for the current generations of pensioners, for whom there will be no funds to pay their pensions. I think we need to plan reforms with great caution and moderation in the coming period. The reforms offered by the Social Democrats were gradual and moderate. Follow that example. Then you'll have our support. If you radically intervene in many areas where we do not need radical cuts, because this would destroy and destroy the basic connective tissue of our community, then do not count on our help for such reforms. I want one clear answer to the next question. Many, including the new coalition partners of Janez Janša, have asked questions about the elimination of conflict of interest in the fact that the future mandate-holder is being prosecuted for a crime that is being prosecuted under official responsibility. The Virant list even initially demanded from the failed mandate holder, Mr Jankovic, that his client not guard over two resources that could have a decisive influence in this regard. I am interested – also in the interest that his innocence will be undeniably demonstrated – that Janez Janša today, before the National Assembly, will say in what way, as the future President of the Slovenian Government, will limit his influence on the possibility of influencing the prosecution and also on the judicial authorities, that the judgment, however just, will correspond to the truth and the actual state of evidence given, because this fair judgment is an indisputable public interest of the first category in that country. We must have this confidence in the National Assembly before Mr Janez Janša the National Assembly appoints him as a mandate-holder. We need to know that public interest is consistently taken into account. As it is said, Slovenia needs consensus. Consent can be achieved in a way that will continue to strengthen Slovenia as a solidarity and connected community and bet on policies that can deliver important results, not overnight. In doing so, I call on you not to respond to those development policies and the new development model, which has proved to be an increase in investment in the modernisation of the economy and at the same time maintaining the social security of people, through the reckless experiments outlined in this coalition contract. I will not support Janez Janša in today's vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u79	It's Mr. Ivan Grill's turn, then Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! Today's debate mainly by SD and Positive Slovenia somehow indicates the direction of discussions in the National Assembly, where you will obviously want to deal with other parties and not with a problem that is becoming more pressing in Slovenia from day to day. What is important to Slovenia today? What is happening in Mr Virant's National Gazette, what is happening with DeSUS – see, this is completely irrelevant, people certainly not interested, especially those facing major problems in the economy, in the social field and so on. Let the debate focus on the issues for which we are responsible and are also called. On 11 January, when we confirmed here or confirmed Mr Jankovic's candidacy by the Slovenian Democratic Party, there were almost no discussions. We have not made any accusations, in various articles on Mr Jankovic, on the coalition, on many members of Positive Slovenia, but we have left the decision to those who gave him support, and obviously there was no support for many of them. And from that day forward, from various media outlets, various influential ideologically-defined celebrities in our society from day to day have been able to detect attempts to discredit a potential candidate for the mandate of Mr Janša. Ever since that day, this experiment has been put into practice — to be discredited. But why is that? Why do you all somehow fear that Mr Janša, who has already proved to be the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, will lead again? However, some of you try to read his leadership from 2004-2008, that it was ineffective, unsuccessful, that the year or mandate of fat cows was. The results show the opposite. Many European statesmen, distinguished statesmen, who, despite the recession, are successfully coping with this, recognize its quality and want Slovenia to lead again. But, as I have said, all in one voice and also today's debate is about what Mr Janša was not able to do, what is being done to him here. This is unfair and also unsuspecting for the future. What was his performance today? Was his performance the same as that of the Slovenians? Was it his performance to rule out any of you? Despite the fact that Slovenia is not in a jealous position, it was in his words to detect some optimism, the hope that we could lead Slovenia out of this situation if we all recognize these problems, which, of course, he also very analytically presented, despite the fact that some of you ridiculed it, that he presented something because it is known to all. Obviously, some are not yet known or understood. Many of those who, in the previous term, have a responsibility to come to this, are sitting in these benches today. However, Mr Janša did not want to hold or discuss the culprits in return in his performance. He strictly predicted that it didn't matter who was responsible. However, it has rightly stated that many of the systemic anomalies that have been in place since the year 90 onwards in Slovenia can be blamed for the fact that in many areas we are in an unenviable situation, from education and not least perhaps health care and could still be found. Therefore, a number of measures will need to be taken in order to eliminate these systemic anomalies, which were not created in the last mandate, but from 90 onward. That is why he offered his hand to all, including the Social Democrats, also to Positive Slovenia, to look together for solutions that would bring about the welfare of Slovenia and also accept them. Some of you mentioned that in his analysis it was to detect those problems that we all know. Some of you have reported that there are no targets. You need to agree whether or not there were goals because some others thought that those goals were unrealistic. One gentleman even said such a funny thing that the goal is not important at all, that it is an important path. The way to what? If you don't have a goal, every time you do, you get there. I think you've said something a lot in your debates that might be a little bit funny. If we look at what Slovenia expects or people, with the exception of ideologically impatient and highly profiled individuals or some elites, our people, our economy, our poor pensioners, also young people want a government that will lead Slovenia out of this severe crisis and problems. People don't care if it's the left-centre government or whether it's the right-centre government. They really don't care. In fact, we would agree on everything to finally start solving Slovenia from this problem. I am confident that, with Mr Janša's election as a mandate holder and also a quality ministerial team, we will be able to start pulling Slovenia out of this deep mud. To say that this is an electoral fraud, that it is not democratic, that it is a betrayal – why such demagogies, why such untruths and why they are stuck here on things that Slovenia cannot bring out of trouble. Let us come together to those points where we will really find solutions to revive the economy, to give our young people the opportunity not only to have quality education at such schools that will enable employment, but also to have some optimism for the future, to our pensioners who are worthy of pensions, and to introduce to our society the optimism that was 3 or 4 years ago. You can trust me that now is not the time for political prestige. The time will be one year before the elections, if we can hold this mandate to the end. At that time, we will be able to discuss again a little more about who is more deserving of the situation that will then be or will not be. Now is the time to stick together to find solutions for the future. Let's leave the stuff that separates the Slovenians. And as Mr Janša has already mentioned, there is no content in his performance and there is no content in the programme that could be the basis for any division. I would therefore expect that today's debates in this spirit, in particular that the laws that we are about to adopt today, will also be very unanimously confirmed and that if necessary, we will adopt the necessary laws that will be useful to Slovenia. Don't make this Saturday an exception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u81	Mr. Kavticnik, were you misquoted?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u82	Yeah, that's why I'd like a replica, yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u83	Then please be my guest.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u84	I found myself in this. So, I said: more than the goal are important paths. That means he's the target. More than a goal is an important path. But if you set a goal and you don't have a path, or if it's too difficult to reach the goal, then it's not good. So they're more important than the goal, and I've warned you about that. Otherwise, you have said a great deal of what we have said, and we can agree. But in order to achieve certain objectives, it may not be necessary to seek such routes or funds as is sought or sought in the past by a mandate-holder or candidate for a mandate-holder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u85	It's mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, and then Dr Darko Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Winning without a fight by getting your allies in time is best. Not just the best, it's art. Here, my fellow Member, once again, our fellow Member, Janez Janša, has proved to be an excellent general with an extraordinary strategy and leadership of warfare, which he is undoubtedly congratulated on. And if I continue in Sun Cu's style, "every war is based on deception" and this inspiration will also form the 10th Slovenian government. At this point, the trickery itself, as a method of achieving the goal, because we have already talked about goals and paths, I see as something unethical. Why? Because it is a deliberate undermine of the will of citizens and citizens expressed in democratic elections. But, okay. One would expect a single coalition that is aware of the economic situation in our country, the financial crisis and the situation of Slovenia in the international environment, to play a responsible and, of course, uniformly at least the start of its game. Today, we see that political bargaining unfortunately continues to continue to wave around the organisational and humane structures of the new government. At a time when we need motive, a motive that we can even trust politics and hope for a better tomorrow, we are witnessing constant misdirection, changing attitudes, ambiguities. This, respected colleagues and colleagues, is not the best journey, nor is it to this Parliament, nor is it to the new government, to the electorate and to the electorate, and even to the outside, we are setting a very poor example for people. I read somewhere that the country is becoming a victim of political egoism in party February. The President of the National Assembly said today that we are living in a country where a political party can freely decide which coalition to go to. How cheap words are. That man does not respect the free will of his Members and Members. In view of all that we have actually heard in previous discussions today, I think it is not really worth assessing the government's programming origins. At this point, they are obviously not satisfactory even within coalition partners, and they are even less consistent with what we have heard in the pre-election period with pre-election promises. But I like to say to myself, what we can't fix at any given time is history. From here forward today, here and now, we are building all together on the future, on the future that we have an impact on. I hope that the mistakes made in the past from 2004-2008, when we already had a right-centre government in almost identical positions, will not be the basis on which the government will build the prosperity of Slovenia. Today, the prime minister of the new government has initially collected data from the UMAR, indicators of where Slovenia is today. In September 2008, he responded to the comments of economists by saying that the direct impact of the global financial crisis on us would be significantly lower than some have predicted and that there were actually no serious signs that would provide the basis for the 2008 recession talk. In 2007, the financial crisis erupted to the full on a global scale in August 2007. And in 2007 some of the poorest segments of the population felt this crisis in Slovenia. At that time, the President-in-Office, in 2007, signed some statements. At a meeting with the Korean politicians and economists, he said that life would not be radically irritated, the social distress of pensioners and workers who had already predicted the crisis, did not mean that the matter was alarming if we saw bread crumbs in all city dumpsters. He said that they should at least strike in the spring when the weather is better. And so on, not to mention. I will not judge how much and who is honest in their statements or actions, each one has the right to judge himself. The president said or asked whether the candidate's performance as Prime Minister of the Government was today the same as that of dividing Slovenia? No, no, no. The mandate for future Prime Minister of the Government said he wanted to build a society based on equal baselines. I have heard several times, and I believe every opportunity to get another chance, so at this moment I also appeal to Mr Janez Janša to withdraw immediately from the web page, on behalf of his credibility, the credibility of the coalition treaty and Members of his Members, his members who are standing in his defence today, and from his archives the blacklist or list, I will say, infectious persons in our country, those whom his client has publicly burned only because they have expressed a different opinion. There are no politically active or defined people on this list, and there are also people on this list who, by signing a petition, have expressed disagreement with one of his government's actions. In the name of credibility, I'm assessing that this would be, I'll say, a noble act. I believe that for the future Prime Minister of the Government or for every President of the Government, political and professional and, of course, laziness in thinking is welcome. In this way, it points to its breadth, and government decisions can be more sophisticated and better, and indeed on the basis of the recognition of the needs of people, including those made for people. On this path, I wish him or you, Mr Janez Janša, absolute success. I want us to be able to put together a good government team and prepare a good government programme, not just on paper, even in practice. As a constructive opposition, we will certainly work for the benefit of Slovenia, so we will also keep an eye on the decisions of the government and the government majority in Parliament and, of course, try to avoid any bad moves that might be implied. Therefore, in this place, I remind you of the entry in the coalition contract, which may have negative, undesirable consequences. "From the love of my children that I want to give them a better life," I hope that this foster care does not mean just a handful of people sitting in your coalition parties. All children want and yearn for love and deserve the responsibility of the government and all of us. And finally, in the coalition image, it also says, "from responsibility to the electorate who entrusted us with their voice." And I will conclude, the President or the candidate for president. I hope and wish I could say in four years' time, or in the re-elections, "Janez Janša has a heart. Heart for 2 million and 50,000 Slovenes and not just 288,000 719 of his constituents and voters." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u87	It's Dr. Darko Jazbec, and then Mr. Happy Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We've heard a lot today. I'll try to be brief. At the time of this service, I tried to prepare myself for work and read the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Constitution, and similar literature at home, but then after a few days I realized that this was completely wrong. You should play chess, Monopoly, man doesn't get angry and similar strategic games. Somehow I didn't understand what was happening here in Parliament. The right hand was always passionate, politically overreacting, and maybe she didn't notice anything that we weren't even competing, that we weren't playing with us. I don't know that anyway, and as Mr Vogrinc has already said, " enterprises are sinking and we're playing." So we are probably here more because of Slovenia than because of these strategic games. I don't know Mr. Janez Jansho personally. However, I know that it is a person with great experience and also unquestionably abilities that I appreciate, but we are probably not here because of the future of Janez Janša, but because of the future of Slovenia. And at this point, there is an important program, content and way of working. But it's just the way it works that's why I can't give up that trust today. These are the experiences from 2004-2008, when I was on the other hand, among trade unions in public sector wage negotiations. It was like a market. One price in the morning, another price in the afternoon. It's been days, months, years and years, and it's run out of time for the entire term. There has been a wage reform in the public sector as a semi-product, which is now in use because there is no other. The way this works may not be appropriate for these times, and that is why I am also in Positive Slovenia, because I think that Zoran Jankovic is the one who has a completely different way that is suitable for these times of crisis, as a crisis management. For now, it's only so much because I think there's been a lot of talk today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u89	It's Mr. Happy Meh's turn and then Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u90	Good-bye! Someone said some Members were intimidated. I must say that I have not been intimidated, but that I have received many opinions and opinions from voters and voters who have clearly stated that we do not respect the results of the temporary or early elections today. These results are not respected today. The voters made it clear clearly that there was a serious problem in the terms of office back there. There is no LDS here, there is no Really, there is no Slovenian National Party. Social Democrats have been reduced to one third. Two new alternatives emerged: Positive Slovenia and Virant. People expected something new to happen. Many new Members are here today, those we are for the first time in Parliament. They expect us to make Parliament different, to be more respectful, to be more reputable, of course, and to act that way. Now, here's the thing. Today, members of the coalition explain why you're in the coalition. This is where you apologize for stepping into this coalition. This is your right. But you didn't say what you were going to do to get us out of this situation. So, to talk about what happened in the past mandates, where we are right now – we all know that. Today, we want to do something together to get out of this situation. Now, a well-respected coalition, we have only proposed two things: that the prosecution should not be under the interior ministry and that the culture should be under the independent ministry. Which means, of course, that we have proposed something to participate in these tasks, which we will need to get out of this situation. And now I'm listening to appeals to help us solve the situation. Excuse me. Step one is yours. Make it, and then we can talk about whether we are able to do something together and what to move, so that of course it will be significantly better. And if you ask today who decides: Positive Slovenia, SDS or SD. I'm sorry, it's not true, it's up to Gregor Virant or his client, it's up to DeSUS. These are the ones who decide today what will happen in this Parliament and what will happen in this Slovenia. For this reason, it seems to me that it is legitimate, of course, to support Mr Ivan Janša as a mandate-holder. But I'm sorry, it's also legitimate not to support him. Of course, it will also have to be said that Janez Janša is today the only candidate for a term of office, and we are only deciding on him. But I certainly can't agree that it's the best. You can do this right now. There's a lot of people who can do it with the qualities they have. Today we should talk about what we are proposing, how we will reduce. You're saying we'll save 800 million. Where, I ask. To keep new jobs. What are we gonna do? What are we going to do with the congregations? What are we gonna do about the state property? What we're going to do with other categories, I mean workers, unemployed, handicapped and everyone else, not just one category of our population. These are the reasons why I don't think I can give my vote to this coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u91	It's Mr. Mag's turn. Branko Grimes, then Mr Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u92	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! It is symbolic that the present government, the scientific government, is saying good-bye in the same way that it was created and ruled all the time — with a vast and insurmountable difference between words and actions. What happened just two days ago? Something that will have a major impact on the lives of young people, all those who live in the virtual world, deal with computers, acquire information, their knowledge on the Internet – this government, ladies and gentlemen, behind the back of its citizens and citizens, when it had endlessly much to say how it would work in public, how it would respect human rights, order the ambassador in Japan to sign the Act, a new anti-piracy agreement, as it is officially said, that is against illegal copying from the Internet, without any public debate, without the involvement of the interested and professional public, and without the decision of the National Assembly as it is required by law and constitution. Not only has there been enormous damage in the past three years, but you have done something for goodbye that will remain a great shame and a great developmental damage to Slovenia. For when something is signed in an international space, it is valid and expected to be respected in an international space. And that's what you, exactly the one who's been talking about defending human rights, freedom of the Internet, and you've been talking about this a lot today. This is this insurmountable difference between words and actions, which was the red thread of your policy and this policy, such a policy, we do not need it. Imagine the signal you gave this to the young generation. Already it is a resistance to politics because it is considered to be something bad. But I claim with full responsibility that politics must be a job for people, not a plot behind people's backs. What you have done on such a sensitive subject as knowledge acquisition, information acquisition, global behaviour, if you want, including global business in a modern virtual world, because the Act, in its final consequence, if fully established, also means the possibility of unlocking individuals from the Internet, is said to be the most extreme intervention in human rights. It means much worse, it means a developmental bar, it can, in a country that will do so in such a form as it has cooked behind people, far away from the knowledge of the public concerned, and then even sign it without having to be decided by any working body in Parliament in accordance with positive legislation, but only by Parliament as a whole. And for every position to be presented anywhere, the government will come to Parliament for confirmation. In this case, when it comes to a prior signature of something that may affect the fate of a whole generation of young people, this was not decided anywhere. He's hiding. And probably those of you who have cooked this are now just waiting for a new government to be set up, and within a week, you will attribute to it the responsibility for all possible harmful consequences that would result from this act. That is why I must say that I am very pleased that a coalition has been formed, which is European comparable, which Europe has actually wanted, which is what the democratic world wanted. There have been more than enough signals in the international public. I firmly believe that this government, which we will begin to form today with the appointment of a mandate holder, will also justify these expectations. But these are the expectations of the international public, and we must first be interested in what we want, what Slovenia needs. Slovenia needs the transparent work of the government to involve everyone concerned by the law in the codecision process in each act, so that they can at least express their views in order to allow for public debate, especially on such issues as the Act being discussed by the whole world, but it was not known that Slovenia would just sign this act with some prior signature. And of course it is important what we will do for the engine of Slovenian development, which is small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. And let me tell you what I'm sure Gorenska and all of Slovenia needs. It requires that we become comparable to, at least, neighbouring Austria, by favouring entrepreneurship. Do you know what the difference is? In order to achieve this, we need a drastic reduction in the prices of real estate, in particular land – in Austria's Koroška, the equivalent land on the highway is four to five times cheaper than in Slovenia, the border is virtually no longer due to Schengen. We need adequate legal protection, we need financial discipline, we need a functioning banking system, a functioning banking system. And when we talk about legal protection, we need to make sure that judicial proceedings with a judicial judgment will be decided within a reasonable period, perhaps a year, if possible even less, but not as it is now, for four, five years. Imagine what it's like for an entrepreneur who has to hand over his salary to his employees, four to five years of procedure to wait for him to recover what someone owes him. It's death for him, and for the employees, it's family, big personal trauma. Only when we do so do we have a real basis for sharing, for the well-being of people, for development. Today, if you want, the sovereignty of countries is no longer defended by weapons, defends itself with a successful economy, with a fondness for entrepreneurship, which must also become a value in Slovenia. And if we do that, we will justify the expectations and trust of the electorate. I will vote myself in favour of the mandate holder, for us to accept this responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u93	Mr Branko Ficko is next, and then Mrs Janja The Attack.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u94	I'll be brief. Nice greeting from all Prekmurks! What about the commissioner and his team? I was taught from the practice that those players or presidents or managers who have been somewhere before are no longer returning to work successfully or unsuccessfully. They prefer new challenges, because in the old ones they no longer have the right goals and visions, so they're out. So, why are the currents coming back? Because of wages probably not, the balance sheets are either negative or there's probably something left that's not cleared or unsettled. Perhaps the mandate-holder would not want to go at all if the Greeks did not show up, and I must say that he also assumes the greatest part of his responsibility. So the proposal – the same team that, of course, laid the groundwork for the 2004-2008 crisis, was then the story of the destruction of champions, is the destruction of large systems. At the same time, the Council connected businesses, and we had a focus on small and medium-sized enterprises. The peak was, of course, a tycoonisation in 2005, the so-called political sale of Mercator, the stories of Kolinska, Drugs, mentioned earlier Intereuropa, Luka Koper. Of course, the purchase was financed by a state treasury or a bank, I apologize. And in this period, the external debt from the surplus increased by EUR 10 billion, 50% was redemptions, the rest went to construction and TES 6. And now this same team is supposed to bring the government out of crisis. I don't think so. And I would just add a message to the Prekmurcs, we don't want urbanisation, we're too close to Hungary, we already see what's going on there, and in Prekmurje, which depends on agriculture, the agro-food system, tourism, construction, we don't want any further sale. When you decide to sell Mercator, know that you are destroying an agri-food complex, selling a story about Todorić, who has no money, and of course you are saving him. The precocious didn't give me the green light to be in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u95	It's Mrs. Janja Attack, and then Mrs. Tamara Vont.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Messengers and Members, all present, welcome! It is not easy to think about life, about the future, especially in these times for us young people, who are just creating our own space in society, we are fighting on the path of survival and a decent life. However, nothing can be achieved by Slovenians and Slovenes without proper targeted effort. As far as I can tell at this time of policy action, political structures should also be based on the individual's personal responsibility. We should also increase the duty we have to society, the country and the world we are part of. The political system should effectively protect people from poverty and the lack of social groups and prevent significant differences between social strata. And today is the day when, I hope, with the election of the mandate holder, we will finally begin to do so. The Coalition Treaty has been harmonised and signed by several parliamentary parties for a good and optimistic start of the slow crisis and is a good incentive and an indication that the situation is turning to the well-being and well-being of all of us. I believe this because I trust the leadership of the state of Janez Janša and everyone else who will try to establish such a state. The work, the precise programme to be carried out by the responsible team, will, with the most important first and effective measures, address the initial pressure of circumstances. We must move Slovenia forward, focus attention on saving, economic growth and competitiveness, as well as promote intergenerational integration in order to implement this objective. This, dear colleagues, is our duty to the community and we must be responsible for our actions to citizens and citizens. But it must be realized that important, big things need to be worked out and confirmed by example. Mr Janez Janša is with his own, we must admit, with good political experience, ready to go down into the well and patiently, we are successfully flooding. It is supported by a broad European political summit, which is an advantage for us, as we will better come and study the examples of countries that are economically successful, strong, at a high cultural level that makes it possible to live well, to build large, honorable people who combine strong, beautiful and genuine ties. And as I read recently, only such people can create a good society, a good country, and only a good country can enable great people to be built. Every new day is a new opportunity to move forward. If we know how to get the view and attention right – and I know that Mr Janša knows and is doing so – we will see more opportunities, more assistance offered, more Slovenian heritage pearls and try to learn from it, awaken it, adjust it to the present time. Then we will see the meaning and feel greater optimism in the deepest subject of forgotten values, disappointments and setbacks. I hope and believe that in time we will bring back hope and the beginnings of a new, better period. For the future opposition to come – not only for the opposition, for all of us – but only this Middle East thought, which refers to the reality of Slovenia and Slovenian politics: It is better to light a light than to curse the topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u97	It's Mrs. Tamara Vont's turn, then Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I can't support the Commissioner because I don't trust him. And not because I'm a visual type and I don't fall into graphs, but mainly because these graphs have drawn a state that already exists and that we all know very well. It is important that we hear, hear, and hear these curves turn upward — and I have not heard it. Nevertheless, do not let him slip away from you — even though you are not here — so let him not waver to you, for this will require many sacrifices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u99	Mag. Dean Jedhan, then Mr. Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u100	Chairman, thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, perhaps a respected candidate for a term of office if you're on TV! Social Democrats are the opposition party and we are not the ones who have to ensure that the candidate is elected. That is why I, like all other Social Democrats, will not vote "yes", I will vote "against". In particular, I am interested in what the relationship between the mandate holder and the new government will be to agriculture, to nutrition and, of course, to other things. I have to say, I'm a little optimistic here. This is because some important projects started when Minister Iztok Jarc was, and we continued these projects. Most of the important things related to nutrition, we adopted agriculture in the National Assembly unanimously. This gives me some hope that they will be carried on as well. But I just want to give you a little heads-up. Today we are talking about the financial and then the economic crisis, how we are going to solve it. We must not forget, however, that at this moment a global food crisis is being predicted, which will be financial and economical as a mouse against an elephant. And if we're smart, we'll act now. However, proper action is not very difficult. As a maximum, agricultural land must be protected and the lobbies of speculators found in all parties should not be abandoned. So please be careful with that. Dear colleagues from the SDS, I know you're very much in contact with the German government. I propose that you read the latest statements by German Agriculture Minister Ilse Aidner, how much the German government has sharpened its position and how much it has begun to protect agricultural land. Second, operational, which will be important when we observe your behavior, but Mercator number two. In the past, Mercator was sold to two Slovenian tycoons. It was a story that wasn't good. Slovenia has done great damage. The new government, because today the mandate holder is likely to be elected, will have the opportunity to choose whether to represent the interests of the tycoons of the neighbouring country or to represent the interests of the state of Slovenia. I hope and I believe you will make the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u101	Mr. Michael Prevc, then Mr. Marjan Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Respectable candidate for a term of office, respected colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to contribute to this interesting debate myself today, although I would like this debate to be more constructive, so that it is more correct, so that it is less offensive and, above all, more positive. Let me say that today I will be happy to support the candidate for the term of office. I am convinced that the current economic situation, the crisis in which we are in need of a courageous, determined, experienced, and, above all, responsible Prime Minister of the Government. That the candidate for the term of office has a lot of courage proves that today's difficult task is being pursued. In his presentation at the outset, he stressed that, together with the coalition, he was ready to face this difficult economic situation with determination. Its responsible approach to the composition of the coalition is also very important, thereby obtaining the sufficient majority in Parliament necessary for the election. The signed coalition agreement between 5 parties and 52 supporters of support is a guarantee that the candidate for president today will also receive the majority, and will thus finally pave the way for a government with the full powers that we so urgently need. Let us recall that, unfortunately, he did not have a candidate for this election in his first vote on 11 January. Today, it is clear to us that it is not the most important person who gets a relative majority in elections, that it is important who can make up an absolute majority. And this has also worked for the candidate for the term of office. So these, in recent times very often heard floscules, that today's election will be played by voters, are absolutely not true, as today's proposal is supported by more than half of all the votes cast by voters on December 4th. We have also signed the Coalition Treaty with all seriousness and responsibility in the People's Party, as we have been able to include in the Treaty the essential orientations of the People's Party programme, as well as the many solutions proposed by the Slovenian People's Party for a way out of this crisis. Let me say one last thing. In those days, some of the country's railways have suggested that I should just mention that today's candidate for the mandate also has a great feeling for people in distress. My citizens were in such distress on 18 September 2007, when the devastating water wave destroyed many homes of more than 200 families in the Railways. On that day, Mr Janez Janša, the then Prime Minister of the Government, came among the people who lost everything, and today's candidate for the mandate and for the people offered all the help. This help was also largely realized further and people soon received their homes, could move into their homes. I can tell you that today the image of the Irons is even more beautiful than before the floods. From this point of view, too, the candidate for a mandate holder enjoys all my trust and, of course, has my vote today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u103	Mr Marijan Pojbič is next, and then Mag. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Initially, I must say that I am again completely and very disappointed by what I have heard in Parliament today. It is amazing, one would expect, at least from those who have won the highest number of votes in these early elections to behave in a state-of-the-art way. And it was this almost complete team that today looked for every way to mine, how to evaluate those people and that coalition that wanted and worked for the Slovenian people, nonstop teasing, lies and so on. 2004-2008 – The government led by Mr Janez Janša should today be guilty from 1990 to 2012. We have listened to such nonsense today from nearly the majority of Members who are in Positive Slovenia. And how can someone tell me – and the Slovenian people who have seen you now – that you are a party to Positive Slovenia? That you're a Party of Positive Slovenia? and such a party is supposed to lead the Slovenian state. Please! Collect so much courage and responsibility, and step over those ideological obstacles and tell me once a bob beans. Let us come together for Slovenia, not to see that all your letters are written and read to each other. That's amazing what I heard today. It's amazing that I've heard, among other things, the phrase "a kind of political drill." Do you realize who used this word relationship in his address and how long ago? A letter from your delegation used this today. Does she write to someone or someone else? Please! And now let me get to the important point, because today your parliamentary group has spoken more about Mr Jankovic's mandate, than about Commissioner Janez Janša, except in the part where she tried to discredit him in every way. Now I'm going to tell you why I'm going to vote for Mr. Janez Janša. You know why? First time. That is why – Janez Janša, according to my personal assessment, is a person who has had a significant impact on events and was involved when it came to the independence of Slovenia, that we now have Slovenia, a single country. Another time. The period 2004-2008. You can say whatever you want, but the data shows the following. At that time, it was practically the highest economic growth, even twice as fast as in the European Union, if you remember the percentages. The smallest unemployment rate of 96,000 has dropped to about 56,000. Almost 30,000 new jobs. In 2008, there was a budget surplus. And what I'm most pleased with is, next, the whole of Slovenia has developed. And Mr Janez Janša and the government in which these coalition partners were also aware that Slovenia does not have only Ljubljana, that Slovenia also has Koroška, Štajersko, Prekmurje, White Krajina, etc. and that he also has the congregation of Šentilj, etc. The government of Mr Janez Janša visited the entire Slovenian state. Thus she obtained information on what and how to do in order for the Slovenian state to develop as a whole. And that is why I am convinced that Mr Janez Janša is the man who knows how to connect, who has a team gathered around him, which is not in her personal interest, but in the interest of the Slovenian people. And for this I especially sincerely thank all the presidents of the parties, their authorities and members for gathering so much courage and for bringing together our Slovenian country's future. And they did not fall for those who tried by fraud to come up with a solution that would certainly be, according to my personal assessment, long-term harmful to the future of the Republic of Slovenia. You've already proven this in the past. Today I'm looking at one tower of the wall itself, standing up as a foundation, and the money is gone, we don't know where. It's amazing, it's interesting. Maybe someone else will know what this is all about. In general, this is a team of people, which I am convinced is very difficult to take the Slovenian country on the road that the Slovenian state needs at this moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u105	The word has magic. Leila Hrzegovac and then Mr Branko Marinic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u106	Dear President, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Today, the signatories of the coalition treaty, as a parliamentary majority in the National Assembly, are likely to elect the President of the Republic of Slovenia. I will only touch two chapters that make the coalition treaty incomplete and unacceptable for me. Of course, the first area is health. There is no record of how these difficult times will maintain the current level of health care. As a health expert, I find that the austerity measures, the increasingly poor labour market ratio, the fewer contributions, the shortage of doctors, do not promise to do so. We know that all the points in the health section, according to my opinion, require additional resources or a reduction in the rights of insurers, which the coalition contract does not speak of. All good intentions are misleading. The structural reforms of the same government since 2004 were not carried out, not by pension, not by health or labour reform. And second. I cannot support a coalition that takes independence and an equal place for a government table to be heard all the time. You know, honourable Members and Members, children and young people are looking at us and we are their role models. They don't understand that adults talk one thing and work the other. That's why my vote will be against.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u107	Mr Branko Marinič has the word, Mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! In view of the content that has been told many times today, I do not want to repeat it, but let me remind you of some of the major breakthroughs in this recent history. If Slovenia was a member more than 20 years ago or the Republic of the SFRJ, today, after more than 20 years, we can find that Slovenia today is a modern European country, a full-fledged member in many areas required by the European Union and is also putting them into national parliaments. If we could all agree together on these crucial moments, we could find that, as an important figure with important content from the beginning in recent history, there was today's prime minister for the government, Mr Janez Janša. You know, the one who somehow tries to turn the wheels in a different direction and show how undemocratic or how unconstitutional it was that Zoran Jankovic failed to form the government, the one who is misleading the public. It was fair and it was right, it was constitutional and it was fair. The President of the Republic gave the mandate to a relative winner. Since the relative winner failed to provide the necessary majority, he was given the opportunity next to the election result, but in the meantime the President of the Republic intervened with another surprise from which, apart from having the media space filled, there was no other hack. And respected colleagues and respected colleagues, today Slovenia needs Janez Janša. That is why I will also decide in the context of the vote, as I believe it is the same as I had the opportunity to decide in 2004 and was satisfied with the four-year mandate and the leadership of the government under his leadership, when the four-year coalition successfully concluded its four-year mandate with many important results, positive ones which were not actually wanted by those who have the power to influence people's information. They didn't know it, they didn't want it, or they didn't want it out. Nevertheless, people have noticed that this period, which resulted in better, safer and smaller crises, was living at the time they are living today. I reiterate that today Slovenia needs Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u109	Mag. Ivan Vogrin has the floor, followed by Mr Dragan Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u110	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished others gathered in the National Assembly, viewers and viewers, listeners and listeners, welcome! Much has already been said and it is difficult to add something innovative, but because it is the Member's main task to decide and vote and the second main task is to deliver an opinion from the base where it is elected. I'll try to form an opinion of my base where I was elected. One thought is that life is what happens to us, not what we planned. Sometimes surprises that sometimes cheer us up make us sad. We were all expecting, and public polls showed the SDS party's victory. It happened differently, and of course things turned out differently. A relative winner tried to form a coalition for the government, he failed. Now, of course, it is necessary to face a different reality and, of course, try on other grounds. Of course, I don't think it's time to share. When I listen to the debate, in fact, I find it difficult to understand if we now know exactly what the position is and what the opposition is, that, in fact, no one in the position can assert any opinion, position, determination of someone from the opposition and vice versa. I think that things are not black and white, and so do my voters, who are much more positive, I think that, from us who are not as bad as we are from many people who are working and living in the real sector. In view of what this is about, I listened carefully when I was in the Hall of the National Assembly and most of the time I was, for example, the implementation of Mr Janko Vebra, who found that his position was, in fact, if I took it correctly, and if I understood correctly that the Borut Pahor government was not the only one responsible for the crisis that began with the takeover of power, but, of course, the reasons for the crisis also in the past, a few years or so far ago. I just have to agree with that. Why? The findings of some researchers show that the causes of the crisis in Slovenia and Europe, of course, but more so in Europe, because we are strongly attached to Europe, began to happen in 2002, 2003. And then they just stepped up. And, of course, overheated investments in construction. Overheating investment in all areas. The extremely liberal lending of the bank, the literal lending of both companies and the private sector in Europe and, of course, in America, has caused everything to be overheated, everything in oversized establishments and what has happened several times in history to simply happen to the crisis. Therefore, it is not the fault of John Janša, who led the government from 2004 to 2008, with sincere intentions of accelerating investment, development and so on, that I will overheat the economy as much as possible, and we will do better. That's not what happened. Serious economists have found that, in fact, the causes date back to the years before 2008, when the crisis actually broke out. Mr Borut Pahor, of course, took over the government in a difficult situation. My personal opinion is that, of course, he didn't get the best out of it, and he didn't find the best team. But that's the reality. But I believe he tried to do the best he could. I would say mostly the accusation and the invisibility of certain positive and correct warnings, both on the one hand and on the other, does not lead us out of the crisis. Of course, as I mentioned before, it actually reminds me a little of the Roman Empire, where there was one of the main leaders to rule, "let's give people bread and games." Now, because bread is slowly running out for a certain layer of the population, we are actually playing games. The question is, how long will people put up with them? Of course, I must agree with many of the conclusions of Mr Janez Janša, who as a future, I am sure that the President of the Government, or at least today's confirmed mandate holder, has correctly identified where we are weak and where we need to make structural changes. The question to me is, will we be so divided as to be able to do so? That's all. And of course, people expect us to move from words to actions. If we are looking at political parties' programmes, in detail, then we find that we have 80 % of the same programmes or very similar ones. Many programmes, as well as the coalition treaty signed, lack the part that will, of course, implement these programmes. See what we have written – we have written, "we will strive to reduce red tape" and the future mandate-holder mentioned it. That's okay. We need to tell how much, how much we will save, what time and what effects it will have. Of course, it has rightly agreed, and I must agree, that partitioning into the so-called economy and the public sector and telling the economy is creating, the public sector is spending incorrectly, as the public sector is also creating. We have, in particular, forgotten in recent years the right relationship, which we have completely broken, at least in the last three years. The economy has been creating less and less and the public sector has remained at the same level or even spent more. Who's gonna be able to jam this wild dance, good job. It's not an easy job. Here too, for example, I cannot agree with the future mandate-holder, and I think it is right that we should send a message to the public, which I think is right. In fact, I will quote, it was said, "We will take into account professional concerns and arguments, opinions on things that are not consistent with our programme and coalition commitment." Don't hold it. The decisions of the National Assembly and the Government are political decisions. And look why, I'm arguing. We have 10 economists, of which they belong according to their worldwide opinion about 5 left-centre options, about 5 right-centred ones. Opinions and opinions are completely different, people who have the same level of education and who are all doctors of science have eventually even been Ph.D. in the same colleges or in the same college. What does that mean? That man is, however, an emotional being, is defined and made up his mind. That is why we will have a political government and not a professional government, and we will not listen enough to actual arguments, nor do we listen to them here. In my words and in the implementation of many debaters, I have found many things that I must agree with, but probably we have not reached this stage in order for those who will now decide to be able to listen to those who will not be able to make direct decisions or to rule. The public has great expectations of us, and you know what will happen, so I have found out in my electoral base – people expect that from the date of the election of the mandate holder and from the date of the election of the government the standard will immediately rise by 30%. People expect a lot. These are the wrong expectations. The standard won't rise, it'll fall for a while. If this government manages to fight down for a while, then it's done a lot. Then slow down and we'll start going up. That's my humble opinion. And I think so. Mr Janez Janša chaired the mandate in truly beautiful times 2004-2008. Look how much trouble there was in the economy. Almost nothing. The budget was full and all things worked relatively well. I believe that by his election we are punishing him, for in times when we are macroeconomic, microeconomic and world economists' forecasts are so unfavourable that I would really accept this as a punishment rather than anything else, but this is an opportunity for – even some ministers to be the same as in that government – to be found and that also Mr Janez Janša rejects the claims of his opponents that he cannot manage and run the country. "Today is a dream allowed," was said. Let's make this a dream and get through the division. Today, the mandate-holder, I believe, will certainly be elected. Those who are now in the opposition, I believe that they would give the position the greatest lesson of democracy, openness and liberality if they would also support the mandate holder with their votes and give him the opportunity to act and rule. That would be an excess of the size of people and customers. This would be a precedent all the way from Slovenia's independence. They would have been recorded in history as a parliament that could at least at the beginning exceed the division. And in your own name, on behalf of citizens and citizens of Slovenia and on behalf of those people who are fighting every day for significantly less money than here, please do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u111	Mr Dragan Bosic has the floor, followed by Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u112	A respected choir! Mr Janez Janša, candidate for term, will not get my vote because I have already given it up and I do not have two, nor do I change my opinion from hour to hour or week to week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u113	Your Honor! Six hours and something we've been discussing and what we've heard if we make a short inventory. The candidate for Prime Minister of the Government presented us with comparisons with the European Union, an assessment of the situation, and we even reached out to the SFRY. We've heard all the excuses about how this coalition came into being; I think this thing is a belt and it's no longer important. We heard an assessment of how Jankovic's coalition was, which is irrelevant as well. All voters, voters, viewers and viewers are, of course, interested in how from the crisis, what are the goals. It's not enough, if we say we have a goal to get out of the crisis. What kind of action we're looking for. When we hear the likely future Minister of Finance, 800 million will be saved with material costs. Are we going to ban the photocopying of schools or in health institutions from disinfecting hands or what? 800 million! That's one car of money! Don't save it like that. The Social Democrats will be a serious opposition, without an eternal forecast, as you did on the first day and all three years ago, and will lead to early elections. With what ease we've been characterized as traitors, and I don't know what. You won't hear this from us, I promise you. We will not have trade unions against the new government, against the adoption of important laws drawn up by Borut's government, nor will we bring students before parliament to throw stones into this building. Look, we're not like that, and we're not gonna, that's it. You went to greet those who spat over parliament, not us – you! Your candidate in the elections was the one who organized such activities. She revealed herself, but she wasn't elected, fortunately. Look, it's true, we're all talking about the same problems, the same goals, but the way to that can be different. Here are some differences, and here we will sometimes have to step together and help each other. I agree with that, and I wish this government success, because if it succeeds, then I hope there will be no war and no blood. However, as you have already said, you will have enough votes to vote for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u114	Thank you. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek, for her mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! I will not touch on much of the programme content of your coalition contract, but only one which Mr Erjavec points out as his great achievement in the coalition negotiations, this is the coordination of pensions. I think it is right for us to tell all pensioners that if pension reform were adopted and applied today, that formula would already be legal. No additional coalition coordination would be necessary, but then the SDS and DeSUS worked very hard to bring the pension reform down. Otherwise, Mr Janša, and all the rest of the coalition, I hope and wish that you and your Government will work for the benefit of all citizens and citizens, I wish you would not share us with those who wear sweatpants and those who support you. I would like the rule of law to work for all equally, and that you will not consider all criminal charges, which may or may not still apply to you or your supporters, to be a political construct. I wish there wasn't going to be a forgery of documents with a view to discrediting anyone in this country. However, I would also like to keep the European state in all respects and that Hungary will not be our only example, as shown by the Government Act, which you adopted some day ago, as well as the statements of your Presidential candidate, Mr Beast, who can draw and find a lot of similarity between Mr Janez Janša and Mr Orban. But you're very lucky, Mr. Janša. In the opposition, you are not expected by the SDS with Janez Janša at the helm to destroy everything that this government will do. In the opposition, there are positive and friendly people waiting for you, who know that the country and its citizens and not even its party, or even its president, are people who are aware of their responsibilities towards this country and its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u116	Mag. Marko Pogačnik, then Mr Jelko Čehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u117	President, thank you for your word. Dear candidate, Mr. Janez Janša, colleague! The Slovenian economy is in a deep crisis, any new research or new report further proves this. The main reasons for the fall are to seek, in particular, a marked deterioration in public finances, a fall in gross domestic product, a large decline in exports and a low flow of both inputs and exit investments. I wouldn't repeat all the numbers because there were too many of them mentioned, and I'd say maybe just two. Ineligence is a key problem. In December, illiquidity data are record-breaking in all respects, the average daily amount of non-payments exceeded 600 million. Foreign investment in Slovenia is one of the smallest in the European Union. In most investment banks, Slovenia is blacklisted mainly because of the reasons for the last three years and the lack of seriousness. Politics is one that should solve problems, not create them. The policy of the last three years has mainly created problems, but it has not solved them. The coalition was made up in a democratic and legitimate way, and I am convinced that the content of the coalition treaty is the one that will ensure a competitive economy, the creation of new jobs and a fair social policy. A lot of words have been said about culture in the last period. I'd like to point out something. The content is important, not the name. Sport in Slovenia is the best promoter of the Republic of Slovenia. Count the collages, medals from the Olympic Games, world championships, European championships, although Slovenia has never had a single Ministry of Sport since independence, so I am sure that culture will be successful now. There are too many reasons to mention why today I will support Mr Janez Janša as a mandate holder, and perhaps only one could be mentioned. Slovenia was high above the European average in the mandate of its government 2004-2008, and today it is on the tail of all European scales. And therefore, the distinguished candidate for term Janez Janša, happily on his way to a better Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u118	Mr Jerko Čehovin, Mr Franz Pukšič, is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u119	Thank you, I will not discuss this, because Mr Pojbich's brother is an officer, and I will follow his advice.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u120	Mr. Franz Puksic, followed by Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Nice greetings, colleague and colleague! Someone told me, well, what you put together the government, fill the bags again, then we'll come and we can empty them. Unfortunately, this has happened many times and has proved it. Well, let's do it in a row. On 3 November 2008, the then candidate for Prime Minister, Mr Borut Pahor, said, inter alia: "I am firmly determined to justify your confidence and the expectations of our people here. Now there is nothing more important to me than for all of us to be able to overcome the coming obstacles and to speedily continue the journey of Slovenia to the circle of the most developed and solidarity countries in the world." Above all, this is an important, accelerated continuation of Slovenia's path to economic development and, of course, a solidarity country. Unfortunately, that did not work for Mr. Pahor. It didn't work out because of him, not because I think he's the most guilty, but because he's guilty because he just didn't hit the table when he had to hit the table. He had two millstones around his neck from the beginning. So first Gregor Golobic, then Katarina Kresal. And the result — to continue the accelerated path to economic development — was a year earlier in the early elections. A year before the 5th of June, when three referendums fell. And even then, he didn't know how to hit a table and offer citizens and citizens a resignation and a possible new early election. If I did, we wouldn't be in as much a crisis as we are today, and Slovenia's ratings wouldn't have fallen so much, because we would have been out of it a long time ago. During his performance he also said that the competitiveness and good condition of the Slovenian economy is the only one that counts as the backbone of Slovenian development. Colleagues and colleagues! For three years, I warned the Prime Minister of the previous coalition about this. Today the numbers are on the table. The numbers are the ones talking about the truth. You don't need a lot of words, but there are numbers. We have been negotiating with each other for the period 2007-2013 EUR 4.1 billion. But it's not because the sun is shining, because we'd just get it. The right to spend, not only in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, but also in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the right to receive money from the Brussels Treasury to carry out so many projects. Until 31st. 12. 2011 was two billion 675 million. How much did we get, honourable Member, who sat in the Ministry of Finance and was responsible for this until today? We got 1.3 billion. Only half. We have two and a half billion left open. And you'll say we have signed contracts. That's right. The Treaties are signed for two billion 400. Only for two billion 400. For one billion and some, they were signed in the first year, 2008 in the time of the Yangtze government. Since then, in three years, every year for only 500 million. How can this government make up for this now? It's hard. We had already warned at the beginning of the previous mandate that we would spend a billion dollars on such work to stay in Brussels. I'm afraid she's really staying. Blame the present government, which has another year and eleven months, up to 31. 12. 2014 when the final date for the signature of the contracts is. Until then, a number of things need to be done, projects should be placed in space, projects made, calls made, contracts signed – this is not the same as one of the municipalities that adopts the spatial plan on Friday, and on Monday, the Ministry will decide – and only then will you receive payment from the RS budget and then payment from the Brussels Treasury. We're gonna regret a lot of this. Let's be aware of that today. You know what a billion is? 800 million is for one car of money, a billion is a little more. And that's the problem. Also because of such uneconomic behaviour of the previous government, the government coalition and, of course, the former coalition's botts, who have only lashed and supported someone else and would have brought this country on Serbia's path. Thank God, today we have another coalition ahead of us, today we have someone who, I believe, will do everything in the world to lead this country on a better path. If I do just one short walk of comparison between coalition 52 and coalition 42. Why do I call them Coalition 42 and Coalition 52? Because the previous leader of the 42 coalition here in front of the Slovenian public demonstrated the power of the lie, how someone will vote differently than will be publicly defined. As my fellow Member has said before, he calls for others to vote and support this coalition, do so, and if you do so, do so publicly, tell how you will do it, but not to hide behind those lockers there, especially in the sense that he is speaking one thing and doing another. That is why I voted in public at the time because it is my right not to raise my voice without any pressure. Colleagues and colleagues, I will support the Commissioner today. I will support him as I did last time in public, because journalists outside ask me, "Mr. Pukšič, won't you really support Janez Janša?" I said, "Yes, journalists, I'll bring you a voice mail if you want it." But that's my decision. I will do so out of transparency primarily to you so that you will once understand that this is our right. The leader of Coalition 42 was said to have been an effective manager, described as propaganda. Maybe, but Mercator is now one of the worst-standing trading chains in which merchants, I've wondered, the lowest wages. As a result, the lowest pensions. 200 million euros, which is just like this, from one pocket to another, is still very problematic for such workers and workers. They say they're empty centers. In addition, it is said that the income per square metre is the most underutilised in the region or in the country with indicators of other commercial networks. This means that investments are missed. But is it true that there is a company called what? – in the meantime, it's very rich. Coalition 52 has the international support of Slovenia's most important allies in the world and in Europe and will be able to restore its important role to foreign policy by making the right decisions. The leader of K42 had no international support, only limited to the Slovenian-Balkan space. It's not bad, but it's too small. The K52 Coalition is the one who is still aware of the fall of Chihuahua syndrome. The expression is from the book of Geopolitics by Larissa Gaiser, and I will quote: "We live within our borders in a permanent complex of small dogs, which always feels threatened, constantly barking at friends who play with it, and thus uncomfortably triggers an uncomfortable mood." End of quote. Houses of Coalition 42 are still trapped or themselves creating this Chihuahua syndrome, because it is only in this way that they can drive away foreign partners and control Slovenian political and financial space. Therefore, the indicators as to who gives money to, banks to the economy or the economy to banks are even more appropriate for this particular Chihuahua. At the time of the previous government, Coalition 52 was able to steer among the great world politicians without creating on one side or the other. The leader of Coalition 42 has not even come to power yet, and he has already stated that he does not care about foreign policy that he is willing to leave this to the President of the country. That, by the way, is also against the Constitution. It also sparked a lot of international resentment. The task of the leaders of K52 is to identify the political, economic and cultural advantages of our country. I am confident that they will be deepened for the well-being of all citizens and citizens. Coalition 52 has already demonstrated that it understands all this and is prepared to bring Slovenia out of the crisis on the basis of such guidelines. I am sure that coalition 52 will do much more in regional development and, as my fellow Jew said, in local self-sustainment. This is and will be one of the elements of survival in this country. Undoubtedly there will be a lot to be done, colleagues and colleagues, and I also expect your agreement, the agreement also on the recovery of the wrongly acquired property at the time of the property. We've got a lot of work to do here. And only when we do so will citizens and citizens be willing to believe that belt tightening is necessary for everyone. However, first of all, those who have robbed these citizens and citizens of the jobs, jobs and property that this country has had. In fact, the leader of K42 did not say anything in his presentation, was neither concrete nor created clear starting points. Even more. If you remember, Gregor Golobič announced the day after the election of the then new mayor of Ljubljana that he would build a stadium, invite Ronald to kick the first ball, and in this way he will be given the opportunity to be elected Prime Minister. I'm afraid it didn't work out that way. This does not go with 38% of the support, this goes only with 62% of the coalition's support. In Serbia, too, radicals won the war between 2004 and 2007, and they received pro-European forces that formed the government and that is why Serbia is on the right track today. And that's it. I count that since today's election Slovenia and Slovenians will have the most, that they have enough to do so, and that the Slovenians and Slovenes around the world will contribute to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u122	Ms Masha Kociper has the floor, followed by Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u123	Your Honor! Today we are deciding on the candidate's candidacy for Prime Minister of the Government, and much has already been said in this debate. I would like to define myself on the question of legitimacy, which, in my opinion, has been properly opened by the President of the State, because his decision has been repeatedly commented on and also criticised today. The President of the State argued that he could not propose this candidate for a term of office, which I think is perfectly legitimate. As we are accustomed to him, he wisely justified his decision. The question of the legitimacy of the highest authorities is certainly one of the most important issues. It is true, though, that when we talk about the legitimacy of an individual, we quickly find ourselves on the slippery ground of some personal offenses or political inconsistencies. Nevertheless, there is some general minimum standard in the world that applies to when a person is legitimate and when he is not. Surely we can agree that the legitimacy of a person is affected by whether he is involved in criminal proceedings. Many regulations, both domestic and foreign, stipulate that a person in criminal proceedings cannot occupy a specific position or become a member of a supervisory board, for example. This is without prejudice to the principle of independence, which states that a person is innocent until proven guilty in a judicial decision. It is only that in modern criminal systems there are very high standards on when a criminal procedure can be initiated against a person, a rather high level of suspicion must be given, and it is called reasonable suspicion that such a procedure can be initiated at all. The grounds for the suspicion are judged by the prosecutors and then by the court. And the reasonable suspicion is the third of the four stages of the suspicion which is necessary for the conviction. In today's case, we will elect a Prime Minister who is in criminal proceedings, not just in some criminal procedure, but in a serious criminal procedure, which, in addition to running in Slovenia, runs in two other countries. This makes it impossible for us to wave with our hand and say, "Ah, it's one of the structures of the so-called transition left." A criminal offence is not a crime that is prosecuted by a private action. The candidate for the Prime Minister is being persecuted by the State for the crime he is about to commit in the exercise of his office in the exercise of public authority. Today we will most likely elect this man, Mr Janša's candidate, as Prime Minister. I wonder if from this point on, it is possible to ensure that citizens are subject to an entirely independent criminal procedure. Do we really believe that a person with such powerful powers will not influence or try to influence the course of his proceedings? Do we really believe that his colleagues in the government, the Internal Minister and others will not directly or directly influence the work of the prosecutors, who will decide that this procedure continues to stop, how to conduct the evidence and whether to appeal the case? Do we believe that prosecutors in this case will not limit themselves, knowingly or unconsciously, when proceeding against their Prime Minister? And in the end. Can we really believe that there is a judge anywhere, anywhere, anywhere, anywhere, anywhere, anywhere in the world, who hopes to condemn the Prime Minister? The judiciary, of course, is independent, you will say, and subordinated only to stopping and law. And that's true. But in a specific crime it is not a crime where we can find a bloody knife or a body, probably not an e-mail with content: please credit the bribe to my current NLB account, there is no. The judge in this case will have to decide on a whole range of very different, mostly circumstantial evidence and then take a decision. Will he be free to take this decision on the Prime Minister of his country? Will we citizens be able to believe, justly and without any doubt, whatever this judgment will be, that this judgment will be true and just? I want Mr Janša and our country to prove that he is innocent, of course, if he is truly innocent. In these circumstances, though, can we really believe any judgment that comes with an innocent judgment? We have a long way to go before this decision, and I would like in particular to see that Mr Janša participates in judicial proceedings and to ensure that the proceedings are concluded within six months as provided for in the coalition agreement and that the obligations of the Prime Minister and of the foreign administration do not make it too difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u124	Mr Franz Breznik has the floor, followed by Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members and colleagues, also appreciated by all the good people in front of TV audiences, who accompany us all over Slovenia and also abroad! Dear colleagues, we have come before the second round of the election for the term of office. Today there is no point in obliging who is a better candidate, but Mr Zoran Jankovic, who failed in the first round, who did not have a chance to get a correctional exam, is this meeting leaning towards Mr Janez Janša today. I'd like to say a few things about the entire time determinant of how we got here. As you know, the then winners of the previous elections, I am speaking of course of the 2008–2011 mandate, were called the dream team. A dream team in case the dream team will lead Slovenia on this path some highly developed Western country that has a strong prosperity on this path somehow. This dream team is due to a number of shocks, and now it's not my conclusion that is somehow biased because of my political conviction, but this dream team has somehow, you could say, sat down because of various networks, lobbies, some connections, some uncles from the background or fossil politicians who have somehow held this Slovenia in the middle of the last 45 years, or maybe 70 or 65 years. I am talking about people who have somehow set up the previous government, which has sat down, who have also, with some help, tried to give Mr Jankovic some political legitimacy in this room. In fact, they also harmed him; they harmed him in particular by saying that Western policies are somehow distanced from us, to close our doors in the countries we currently need. Dear colleagues and colleagues, to talk about the servants, we are currently servants. At this point, we are servants, because we are ourselves – we do not have a wallet, we cannot fill it and we are largely dependent on foreign investment and competitiveness. Today we have talked a lot about competitiveness, and the candidate for a mandate has also given some serious thought to where the new government will come from. The new government will face extraordinary lobbying, interest groups, and possibly a government that could be led by Mr Jankovic. And the new government under the leadership of Janez Janša may also have to make cleaners in the higher education area. We've heard a lot today at the expense of that. We have higher education space, we need products of high added value, this increases our competitiveness, this is also the problem of all Western democracy today. We have only one sentence to apply: how many engineers do we have per population? This is the basis for increasing the competitiveness of our system – engineers in all areas. I will therefore support this draft coalition agreement and Mr Janez Janša for the mandate of this government. Mr. Janez Janša has credibility, has always been before time. It was late in the 1980s, before the time when all of you, including some of you, signed a letter on the demilitarisation of Slovenia, just before the independence, which was a total political floscule. In normal democratic countries, these people would never stand in this temple of democracy again. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u126	Thank you. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer. [[No, no, ……]] Mrs. Maja Dimitrovska. [[He's quitting.]] Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. [[There's no time.]] Mr. Roman Jakich. [[Time's up.]] Mr. Karl Erjavec. [[Same.]] Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. As it turns out, we'll come to another from one extreme. In fact, I must remind you that during the period 2004-2008, we reached one extreme with great economic growth and exceptional overheating of the economy, also because credits were uncritically granted for the purchase of new and new things, were due and despite the serious warnings we gave to Parliament at the time by the Social Democrats, this problem was not detected in the then government and, at the time of the global financial and economic crisis, of course, this overheated economy fell overnight. During this period, the Social Democrats have mitigated these consequences, helped businesses that have lost their markets overnight, saved many jobs, and, in fact, those who have lost their jobs have really been affected, because they have simply become such a powerful market, and so I would say a devastating market as it once was, this moment has not been possible to establish. Today, we are facing another extreme; this extraordinary positive growth is forecast to reduce public spending by 800 million euros overnight and fall into a different extreme. This is extremely dangerous and unpleasant both for the economy and for the people and for the country. The fall from one extreme to another is never pleasant, especially if we are aware of the fact that, even during this period of early elections, an agreement has been reached with the social partners on the adoption of the intervention law. This law was adopted with a great deal of willingness to negotiate, tolerance. In short, we were aware that it would take some time to reach an agreement between the social partners, during the economy, during the policy on what needs to be done. This agreement has already been reached in this reference, but the only party and the only president of the party who refused to sign this agreement was the SDS Party and its President. That's a bad trip. In fact, this agreement has been achieved in this respect, however, that it does not have a drastic impact on the public sector and rights acquired over a six-year period, but not without appropriate dialogue. This concerns us, and this is that way of ruling and running the country, which we have also pointed out when we perform on behalf of the parliamentary group, so today I will not support the new government's mandate. But if that happens, I really wish that these extremes, as foretold, will not occur, for this is no good for anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u128	Thank you. The list of panellists is exhausted or the Group of Members, from which the two panellists remain, no longer has time to discuss. I therefore ask the candidate for Prime Minister if he wishes to answer the questions raised in the debate or to provide further clarifications. Please, please, Mr. Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u129	Thank you so much again for saying that. As usual, the debate was varied and varied on such occasions. I am glad, however, that there have been no major differences regarding the assessment of the situation in which we are. I have already said in my next speech that this is extremely important, that I do not expect everything to be done in one step, but that it is of great importance for us to be united about the point at which the country is at the moment. Of course, this is not such a problem for the democratic parliament and the country of parliamentary democracy, as we have heard about the solutions, but it has also been a great deal of agreement on the path that we must take in the coming years. This is also the answer to the conversion of some why we have come into this situation. Of course, differences and various solutions have also been offered in this House, even in the last three years in which we have actually come into this crisis state, which, without a shadow of a doubt, is evidenced by the figures we discussed at the outset; by the fact that certain structural problems have arisen from the very beginning and we have some unprocessed or unprocessed transition problems, since Slovenia has only come into normal socio-market order and into parliamentary democracy two decades ago. It would be very simplistic or significantly too easy today to say how in the last three years, when Slovenia was hit by an economic crisis, the government has proposed solutions and the opposition has rejected them and that is why we are here today. If the opposition could prevent solutions, then it would not be the opposition, but it would be a position. To claim such a thing is in itself a logical nonsense. Looking at the statistics of the previous three-year term, it follows that in this short term, the opposition has proposed more anti-crisis laws than the Government has proposed. Not to mention the four packages of anti-crisis measures that we have put in place in the National Assembly and which have all been rejected. On the other hand, the opposition, at least the biggest opposition party, supported all government measures and laws, except for five; we voted for all others. Thus, the excuse to oppose the opposition is also somewhat too easy. I said earlier that there is no point in discussing the proportions of the blame, because this debate can take place indefinitely, but some obvious facts need to be clarified. I am very pleased that the coalition, which signed the coalition treaty days ago, has also reached an agreement with the two members of the Nationality Assembly. Let me say that we are very pleased to see that, unlike some similar situations in the 1990s, from the very beginning of the formation of the Government after these elections, they have taken a state-of-the-art stance; the way this function goes after the constitution – they did not want to be a language on either side of the scale. Even with this agreement we have signed with them, of course they are not an integral part of the political coalition. They will support the Government and the proposal for the Prime Minister of the Government, and the coalition has made a commitment to preserve and upgrade or upgrade the level of respect for the rights of both nationalities in the context of economic opportunities, as they will at this time or in the following years in Slovenia. In this context, both of us are based on the positive tradition or experience we had in the 2004-2008 mandate, where what we agreed was also true. I cannot help but draw attention to the thing that has somehow been falling from some debates and, given the atmosphere that has been generated in recent days in the Slovenian public, somehow does not trigger some good expectations and promises. Even today, we have read a large address in a newspaper that literally says: “The Church must be hated. ” There have been isolated outbursts and hate speech in the past, but now I think it's going into some kind of public discourse, which is of course dangerous. There is no need to hate anyone in Slovenia. We think differently about a lot of things, but we don't have to hate anyone. Hate produces hatred on the other hand and conflict, and this leads to a situation that we have experienced several times in our history, regrettably, have and have not produced anything good. I therefore appeal to the fact that all of us who participate in this public discourse are working in the direction that there will be no such addresses. That we will not cause any controversy that only takes energy and directs attention from the key problems we have in Slovenia. Such a social climate is no good for nothing. This ideology of class hatred has failed in the previous century, has caused many woes, including Slovenia, so let us not repeat this. With regard to specific issues, in the next speech, if you gave me six hours, you could read practically the entire coalition contract, which lists all the concrete measures. I had an hour at my disposal, explained my goals, principles, and key directions, and we would be happy to do so again if someone did not understand. It will be another opportunity if I get confidence today when the coalition proposes a list for the government's composition. But in the coalition contract, which we have carefully drawn up, the most precise measures have been developed in 20 years of the independent country's life so far for the recovery of the crisis and for the relaunching of economic growth, the creation of new jobs and the return of Slovenia to the normal path of development. The coalition contract will soon be published on the Internet and, of course, anyone can also read it – I mean here not only the respected fellow Members and colleagues, but also the general public. The contract itself, the objective and the measures are not a problem. It is true that many of these measures have already been proposed in the previous mandate and have been rejected, the situation would have been different if they had not been, but some things we will have to do. And we'll do it first. It'll get better. Before making them, we will previously, in the medium and long term, protect the standard and well-being of people in Slovenia, secure payments for current and past work, say pensions, and prevent someone else from setting a minimum wage in Slovenia, the number of employees in the public sector or the highest pension. We're together in a political community where there are countries that do this to them. This is not such a distant thing, time or history, unless we do the right thing. So, we got all this. We know exactly what needs to be done, but we hope that there will be enough support for this. As some have rightly pointed out, this is not about any major innovation in the most fundamental things we need to do. Finally, I will quote you a sentence that was once as current in history as it is today. It reads as follows: "The budget must be coordinated, the treasury recharged, the public debt must be reduced, the arrogance of officials must be restrained and the assistance of foreign countries reduced, otherwise Rome will go bankrupt." Cicero in the Roman Senate exactly 2067 years ago. A well-known quote, repeated many times in many global parliaments, because countries have their own parliaments, and it is still essentially true. In short, we know what the formula is. Obviously, though, solutions are not always simple, nor would they ever have come to such a situation in history. From Roman history, I could quote another sentence that says that it is always so if someone else decides or decides on the money of others and can be indebted to others, this temptation will usually be stronger than common sense in most cases. This too has been confirmed many times in several thousand years of history. For this reason, I underline once again the importance of the agreement reached in Podružnik between the presidents of all parliamentary parties, where the principle agreement has been reached to place certain anchors in Slovenia's constitutional order. There is now a debate between experts whether it is better to limit public consumption or debt or to find the right combination for it. I do not think that it is necessary to make a decision overnight, although this decision will be the strongest signal outside that Slovenia has clearly set the threshold for destabilisation and is moving on to another path. The best solution needs to be found, and as with the previous case, we are not the only ones doing it. Most Member States of the European Union shall decide on such a solution. Some have already accepted it. We will examine the formulations that your colleagues and colleagues in the European Union parliaments have already written in their constitution or that they are already discussing and we will find them for us. But that's of great importance. I am pleased that today there has been a expressed relatively large consensus on where we are, or, if you want, on the assessment of the situation – we will never agree on who is more responsible for where the roots are, nor will it matter. It is very important that we agree on the situation. Now is the time when it will be necessary or when, if we will, we will get the majority trust here also for the appointment of a government, we will seek agreement on those key steps that need to be taken and where we can only succeed if we all work together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u130	Thank you. The panellists are no longer present and there is still time for discussion. I would therefore like to ask you whether anyone would like to discuss the matter further on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? I see you don't. I'm closing the debate. We turn to the vote on the proposal by the Group of 50 Members and Members for the election of Mr Janez Janša as Prime Minister of the Government. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution, the election of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall be a secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly on the proposal of the President. I have already been proposed by the Members of the Commission, who will chair the vote. These are: mag. Melita Župevc – Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Zvonko Lah – Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Matjaž Han – Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and Mrs Iva Dimic – New Slovenia's Group of Ambassadors. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Mr Matjaž Plevelj, Deputy Secretary-General, will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to the proposal for a commission? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 87 votes against none. [[The vote was 87.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the will of the Member or Member is not clear. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution, the candidate for the President of the Government will be elected if voted for by the majority of all Members and Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the hall, in the voting booths. The Members and Members will submit the completed vote to the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 5.20 p.m. and will take up to 71.35 hours. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 5.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u131	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. We are moving on to the treatment of the interrupted 1st point – this is on the proposal for the election of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia I'm publishing the outcome of the vote. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 28 January 2012. 90 ballots were distributed, 90 ballots were delivered. No votes valid, 90 votes valid. 51 Members and Members voted against. 39 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 39.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mr Ivan Janez Janša was elected President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by a majority of the votes of all Members. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u132	I congratulate Mr Janša on his election and wish him successful work in managing the duties of President of the Government and ask him to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u133	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u134	Mr. President of the Government, would you like to address the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u135	Mr President, thank you for saying so for the third time today. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I thank you for this expressed trust. The words in the direction of cooperation spoken here today will be kept by us. I also thank the coalition partners who, together with the Slovenian Democratic Party, signed the coalition treaty for Slovenia. This was a courageous act in view of the state in which we are, and it was also a rational act, because it was actually the only rational decision after the complications that came after the early elections. I also thank the Prime Minister, Mr Borut Pahor, so far. There is a difficult mandate behind him, and behind him is hard work, which is the work of the Prime Minister anyway. There are great challenges ahead of us, including those that we can only manage together, once again when I say this thanks, I also repeat my call for cooperation; our deadline is offered and I hope it will be accepted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u136	I thank the President of the Government, Mr Janša, for his words. In addition, a notice to the National Assembly, since Mr Ivan Janez Janša has been elected Prime Minister of the Government, is no longer in a position to act as a Member of Parliament, and I will immediately inform the State Election Commission and ask it to communicate to the National Assembly which candidate will serve as a Member in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members instead of Mr Janša. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 6.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u137	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government, all present! We're moving to 2. Agenda item — Proposal for a Law on Hypothetary and Communal Bonds, urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. I'm asking Minister Franz Križanič to give a further explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u138	Dear Members and honourable Members, honourable President of the National Assembly! Let me briefly present the proposal for a new Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bond. This is an extremely important act, so we accept it as a matter of urgency in order to allow Slovenian banks to secure their plasma on the interbank market with quality papers. The analysis showed that, in the pre-economic crisis period, the securities secured by these instruments represented only a small part of the common interbank credit portfolio, and today they account for 40 %. In Slovenia, this paper has not come to life, so we are trying to revitalise it and also allow Slovenian banks to protect their claims either by purchasing state securities – according to their loans to the country and to state guarantees – or directly with real estate. Allow me to read a brief analysis as an introduction to your decision. The aim of the draft law, which was drawn up on the initiative and in close cooperation with representatives of the banking sector and the Bank of Slovenia, is to better regulate the area of mortgage and utility bonds in Slovenia in legal order and practice. The purpose of the law is to enable the issue of these bonds in Slovenia to actually come to life. In practice, the existing law could not be applied due to certain non-life provisions which prevented banks from taking advantage of the possibility of relatively low-cost debt over issued covered bonds under criteria under currently difficult financial conditions, there is still a demand. In short, I can narrow down the three essential positive elements brought about by the proposed amendments. The issuance of covered bonds to banks allows for long-term sources of refinancing of liabilities. The instrument thus facilitates their access to longer-term liquidity, in particular in 2012, when banks continue to face tight financial market conditions and the demand for refinancing will be a major problem for them. In second place, let me mention the fact that more favourable refinancing of banks can lead to more credit activity, more favourable credit conditions, and this will contribute to the relaunch of the economy in future periods. The relevant long-term resources reduce the liquidity and interest risk to banks, which will certainly affect the price of credits. An important aspect of the issue of these bonds will also be the recovery of financial markets in the sense that bonds for institutional investors will constitute a favourable and safe investment, in particular due to high credit quality, it is said to be collateral with quality investments or real or nominal value placements. Investors will thus be given the possibility of a safe investment in Slovenia. The main objective of the law will be to achieve the proposed substantive solutions, which on the one hand go towards reducing administrative barriers to mortgage and municipal bonds and, on the other hand, to strengthen investor protection, as provisions are also proposed to strengthen the credit value of these securities. The draft law no longer contains provisions governing the issue and the first sale of mortgage and utility bonds, since this area is governed by the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments. The sole requirement for the issuance of a covert trust for the coverage of an issue shall be maintained. It is further proposed that the property must be protected not against everything, but only against the usual risks that exist according to the location and type of building that is the subject of the insurance. It is required that the mortgage be issued in a non-materialised form and that the covered property be provided at least at the current value of the bonds increased by 2 %. From the point of view of investor safety, the issuer undertakes to have reserves for the envisaged bond payments over the next 180 days, which is extremely important for [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] It shall also be decided that the custodian of the credit register must have at least one alternate. [[...]] Credit managers shall be given the opportunity to lease a liquidity loan for a continuous settlement under bonds and derivatives. By means of a defined definition defining the credit to persons governed by public law. allows for a substantial expansion of the set of credits that can serve as credit assets. It is also established that only mortgage credit claims whose mortgage is entered in the land book may be taken into account for the assets of the mortgage bond. In short, I think there are so many conditions here that will allow our banks to adequately insure with their placements in the interbank market, that I think it is almost inevitable that this law will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The draft law was addressed in the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. I'm asking the chairman of the committee to file a report. Mag. Andrej Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Dear President, Dear Colleagues and colleagues, Dear Minister! At its 5th urgent meeting on 25 January this year, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bond, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration by means of a proposal for a hearing and adoption following an urgent procedure approved by the College of the President of the National Assembly. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which, in the context of the general comments in the first place, points out that in this case the amendment would be more appropriate than the drafting of the new text, and that there was a discrepancy between the individual articles and the submitted act as a whole. A number of comments are forwarded by the Legal and Legislative Service to the individual articles of the bill below. Qualified applicants have not tabled any amendments to the law, and proposals for amendments to the Committee have been submitted to the Committee as working material to a total of 27 articles prepared by the Ministry of Finance in cooperation with the Legislative and Legal Service, the Bank of Slovenia and the Association of Banks of Slovenia. The Bank of Slovenia and the Association of Banks of Slovenia support this text of the law. It follows from the introductory explanation of the articles that the purpose of the text prepared on the initiative of banks, in cooperation with the Bank of Slovenia and the Association of Banks of Slovenia, is to revitalize the area of mortgage and utility bonds by introducing changes and not increasing the risks to holders of both securities with a different high credit quality. In the opening debate, in the context of the initiation of the examination of the individual articles, in the context of the views presented by the parliamentary groups, the text submitted was supported in principle. A broader, in-depth and opposing debate took place in cities following the consideration of the individual articles of the legislative text of the proposal. A number of questions were raised and a number of opinions were presented. In doing so, amendments or revisions to the proposed amendments from the working material to the series of articles of the legislative proposal and individual new amendments were adopted in cooperation with all nine members of the Committee. Thus, the Committee, pursuant to Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, has drawn up and adopted 29 amendments on the basis of warnings from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, in cooperation with the Bank of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance, on the basis of the conclusions of the Committee's debate. On the basis of the previous decision, the Committee voted on all the articles of the legislative proposal and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes all the amendments adopted and is an integral part of this report, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, Mr Michael Prevc will do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u142	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party we will support the Mortgage and Municipal Bond Act. According to our studies, this law is one of the basic and generally established ways of financing through cover bonds, which, due to the secured structure of the instrument, represents a significantly more favourable source of funding for Slovenian banks. Although it is difficult to understand that we have had as many as five years in force a law that has not been able to be implemented in practice, and according to current explanations both the Banks of Slovenia and the Bank of Slovenia have in fact enabled this time to actually allow banks to issue such securities in practice. More concerned in the Slovenian People's Party are the reasons for the adoption of this legislation, which does not appear to be a desire to regulate legislation, but rather a scrupulous attempt to find fresh funds for the Slovenian banking system. Of course, we are all aware of the seriousness of the situation, as only this year will banks fall short of about 3 billion commitments that will have to be repaid to foreign countries. It is hard to believe that this law will be able to solve this problem, but it means at least a certain step forward. The fact that we are only introducing today a functioning legal solution in the area of mortgage and municipal bonds shows the poorer development of the Slovenian banking market compared to Western economies. This should, however, be a major advantage in the financial crisis that began in 2008. Most banks in Slovenia did not take priority in investment banking and we did not detect the collapse of the real estate balloon, which later turned into a global economic financial crisis. However, the biggest banking groups in Slovenia have enormous losses and more 10 million portfolios of bad loans. As a result, due to the reduced liquidity, the bank has completely failed in its basic lending activity right now, where this is most important. The entire previous mandate in the People's Party drew attention to suspicious background stories that led to such a situation, sought the responsible ones, asked questions, but didn't get any approximately satisfactory answers. Of course, just talking in Parliament is far from enough, and certainly some of the competent institutions should look at what, where and why things went so badly. Members of the previous term thus did not get all the answers about the New Ljubljana Bank or the questions about the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia. I have not even observed that any procedures in relation to these irregularities would have been initiated in order for the public to finally have complete information, although we all know in this Chamber that the cause of the disastrous balance sheet situation of Slovenian banks was not solely in the global economic crisis, but mainly in irresponsible business, uncritical risk assessment and, above all, the negligence of the responsible bankers, who should also be responsible for the poor work done. Without clearing things up again, it will be difficult to put in place good practice for the future. Today we open another option for Slovenian banks to obtain relatively cheap fresh money in currently very unpleasant financial markets. We fear that there will be no more corrective exams from now on, so it is time for all the regulators of the banking market to start working, and this will be particularly important for the Slovenian People's Party in the next term. As has already been said, we will support the present law in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr. Secretary! I can honestly say that at the beginning of this proposal for the Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bond, we were skeptical and detained in Novi Slovenije. In fact, the status of the proposer, i.e. the proposaler is the Government on the way out, did not seem very serious to us, so we were thinking that when a new government is put in place, we should introduce this law or similar law. We also did not like the way the law was written and presented to the National Assembly. Indeed, in the manner proposed by the law, i.e. as a new law, there are no changes and additions that are necessary; let me remind you that this is an urgent procedure. The transparency of amendments to the legislative process is reduced when a new law is in force, after the contents of the amendment, and the transparency of the legal system is not right. The transparency of the legal system is one of the principles arising from the resolution on normative activities. Failure to respect this principle and the widespread application of new laws instead of new ones would in fact blur the border between new legislation and the changes in existing ones. When we found that the economy or the banking sector had been involved in the drafting of this bill, we understood what the essential reasons for the urgency of the procedure were. Indeed, the main reason for the urgency procedure is that a lot of bank liabilities are falling this year. The current adverse situation in financial markets, however, does not allow banks to obtain long-term sources of refinancing of these liabilities. Refinancing in banks will be a major problem this year. Banks continue to repay net liabilities to foreign banks. This year, some €4.3 billion of bank liabilities fall to foreign funding sources, representing about a third of all commitments. We would like this law, which we have subsequently adapted to the committee, to the effect that all members of the committee and also New Slovenia have made efforts to enable banks to resolve their situation. In Novi Slovenije we would also like to see the situation, especially as regards mortgage obligations, similar to in Germany. What's the situation there? Although the financial crisis has repeatedly caused a serious threat to the survival of the mortgage bond in Germany, it has kept its primate in the German market among the instruments of refinancing mortgage loans. This was facilitated by the approach of uncompromisingly defending the mortgage as a safe investment in turbulent times. The concept of quality over quantity has proved to be a motive for publishers who, despite the losses on the bond market, have maintained confidence in this instrument. The reward for patience, if not even the stubbornness of the traitors, began recently. As it is said, in New Slovenia we have contributed our efforts to improve the text of the bill and we will also support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u145	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, she will present the position of mag. Alenka Bratusek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, especially those who have landed in the opposition today, because coalition colleagues and colleagues have apparently taken the time to celebrate, let them be forgiven today, and I hope that this will not be a practice in adopting important laws and documents below. On 6 January, an urgent meeting of the Finance Committee on the public financial situation in Slovenia was convened in the National Assembly. We have heard many things, especially nothing encouraging and, above all, nothing new, which we would not know and have warned about for a long time. It is clear to all of us that action is necessary and immediate. The banking system in Slovenia has also been facing such and different problems for a long time. The adoption of this law will not save everyone, but we will give banks the opportunity to obtain financial resources slightly cheaper. We wish that the law would not only be adopted but also live in practice. In the Committee on Finance, we have spent an entire seven hours in a constructive debate between all members and members in order to make the law even better and, according to our assessment, even more operational. As an essential reason for the adoption of the law following an urgent procedure, the proposer indicated that this year there is a large, more than EUR 4 billion in liabilities of our banks. The adoption of the law will make the issuing of mortgage and utility bonds more realistic, as the provisions of the law will be more enforceable in practice, provided by the proposer. Banka Slovenije also supports the adoption of this law, so we can understand that the law will really help our banks cheaper to money. According to the representative of the Bank of Slovenia, the credit potential under this heading is difficult to accurately assess on the Finance Committee and is expected to amount to between €700 million and €2 billion. Because we are aware of the problems in our banking system and because we know that the adoption of the law can help solve these problems, we will support the law in Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u147	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Zvonko Černač will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u148	Nice greetings to all present! In 2006, the Law on Municipal and Mortgage and Municipal Bond was passed and after three years, in 2009, when the novels were adopted in the National Assembly, it was found that the novel was necessary because the law did not live in practice. Now that this novel or in this case a new law has been restored to the table, the position of the proposer, i.e. the Government, was the same: that the amendment or the new law is proposed because it has not been put into practice. We have found that one of the main reasons why the law did not come to life is not so much in the substantive work as in the administrative work, but in the part that is a problem in this country not only in this law but in many other laws. In short, a number of procedures that prevent and prevent good solutions from being implemented in practice and that the consequences of these solutions would be a more effective functioning of the country or a better public service. The proposer has already said that in the environment surrounding us, it is said, in the European area, the volume of these bonds has increased from 17% to over 40% in the last three years, from somewhere in 2009 to now. However, we did not have one issue in this period, so the effect was zero euros. When we received this law on the table as well as the amendments proposed by this same motioner, we found that it would be good to take another step forward and the committee has taken this step forward. I think that it has been given a symbolic indication that all of us in this House are aware that this thought will have to be changed and that provisions that may seem to create a sense of greater protection in the application of individual solutions will have to be excluded from a number of laws and will in practice constitute a major bar or obstacle to the faster and more efficient functioning of the country. This was the case in this marriage. The assessment now that the impact of this law is supposed to be somewhere between €700 million and € billion may or may not be realistic. My personal opinion is that it is probably real in these circumstances. But even if this number is established, we will still be somewhere at a level of 10%; it is said that it is still essential, under what was the case in our environment in 2008 and in 2009. I think it's right that we support this law. We will support him in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. I also believe that he will somehow be following a path in this area. If some solutions are not good during implementation, they need to be rectified. That is why it is the National Assembly, which is why it is the Government, which is why ministries are to monitor the situation and that, given the way things are going in practice, they also respond to this situation. As I have already said, we will support this law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u149	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matevž Frangež will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u150	Respected and respected! The predecessors have already laid down very precisely the reasons for the adoption of amendments to this law. It's an untapped potential to finance our banks. We know that this can be a potentially long-term source of funding at a relatively favourable rate. What is particularly noteworthy is that, since 2009, the share of mortgage and utility bonds financing in developed countries has been growing sharply. In 2009, the share of such bonds was 17% in the developed countries, 33% in 2010 and 40% in the first seven months of 2011. Given the low level of deposits, or the fact that deposits are not sufficient to finance bank liabilities, and that the ratio between deposits and loans at 1:1.5 forces of the Slovenian bank to borrow abroad. According to Banka Slovenije, the total exposure of banks to abroad is around EUR 15 billion, which means that this amount will also have to be adequately refinanced in the future. This makes it all the more important for the State to respond and provide banks with favourable sources of mortgage financing. These instruments will also make it easier for companies to finance, and last but not least, it has allowed investors to make safe investments, such as insurance and pension funds with long-term assets. For all of this, Social Democracy will be pleased that the government decided to send a package of laws to the National Assembly to resolve some urgent issues, including support.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List will be presented by Mrs Kristina Valenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In view of the currently unfavourable economic situation and the tightening of financial markets, the adoption of the mortgage and utility bond law, which is before us today, will give banks the possibility of more cost-effective and longer-term financing or debt, which would lead to the removal of a credit crunch that currently does not allow companies adequate access to bank financing and thus hinders their business. Although we have already legally enabled mortgage and utility bonds in Slovenia, both the Government and the Bank of Slovenia find that banks have not served this way so far because existing legislation makes it difficult to issue credit bonds. The proposed law that we are considering today is the result of a constructive debate on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, in which all parliamentary groups participated with the aim of adopting a law that will eliminate unnecessary bureaucratic activities and become operational in practice. We will therefore support this law in the Civil Gazette. However, we are concerned about the state of our banking system in the National Gazette, because we are convinced that banks should take a more active approach to finding solutions from the financial crisis, because debt alone will not produce adequate results and progress. We are concerned about the fact that in 2012 a good EUR 4 billion of bank liabilities will fall to foreign funding sources, and we hope that the words of the representatives of the Bank of Slovenia and the Government on the Finance Committee will also be able to realise or recover these liabilities. Of course, we wonder why or how the €4.3 billion mentioned have been spent and what the impact has had on our economy. The economy needs swift, firm and consistent action by the State towards improving the business environment and promoting economic development. I am convinced that we are aware of this by all elected Members and Members, and that this great responsibility, which has been given us by election, will be realized in constructive debates and in the search for appropriate legal solutions for the benefit of our economy, our people and the environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Mr Ivan Simčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u154	Honourable Vice-President, Mr Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, valued citizens and citizens! Position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners on the Proposal for a Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bond. This year, 4.3 billion bank liabilities will fall. The current adverse situation in financial markets does not allow banks to obtain certain resources to redefine these liabilities. Therefore, according to the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, it is reasonable to approach the proposed approach to improving the banking system in the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, we are aware that the effect of this law, at least immediately at the beginning, will not be enormous. However, we hope and wish that this will not be the only way either, as our assessment suggests that the banking sector needs to be thoroughly overwinded. This law was created on the initiative of the economy and the banks, and this fact seems important to us because it is so clearly demonstrated their will and readiness to use the two instruments. On the one hand, we have the willingness of potential investors to invest their funds in the banking sphere and on the other hand also the bank to get fresh Debt with covered bonds is relatively cheap. There is still demand for them despite the difficult situation in the financial markets, as this specific financial instrument is perceived by the high level of security of mortgage and municipal bond holders and can be treated as a very high credit value securities. Because of these facts, it seems to us that the circulation of mortgages and utility bonds could really come to life. In order for the institutes already envisaged in our 2006 legislation to actually live in practice, because they have not so far, even with the 2009 amendment, it is necessary to adopt the proposed law. In our view, it can ensure the operational implementation and use of these financial instruments in practice. The improvement of these financial institutions, as foreseen by this proposal for a law, can certainly have positive economic and social effects. Institutional investors have a safe investment opportunity on domestic soil, allowing them to stay at home as part of possible financial surpluses. It can be used, among other things, for the purpose of housing lending – we know what the clairvoyant situation is in this area with us. Thus, borrowers could receive longer-term and more affordable housing loans. As has already been said, the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in accordance with the timing of the assembly meeting in the framework of the votes, which is 15 minutes after the adjournment of the 5th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on takeovers, urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy Mag. Janko Burger.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u156	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Members, a nice greeting! We have before us the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on takeovers, which was prepared on the basis of analysis, case law and the proposal of the Securities Market Agency and other proposals that we have received as candidates. It also complies with other laws, such as the conversion of tolar amounts into euro and the raising of fines for offences. A proposal for a law establishes a regime that will in practice allow more effective supervision of the Securities Market Agency. The bill complements the provisions of the existing law in parts in which it has in practice proved to be difficult to implement the law or that there is a legal void or a variety of interpretations of the law in this area. Thus, for the sake of a clearer implementation, the proposal defines the term "terminary contract", which includes a provision on informing the Agency of individual actions, for example, on the conclusion of a future contract or transactions with share purchase options, or on the fact that the person who is not obliged to make a takeover offer has reached the threshold. It provides that shares of companies must be issued in a non-materialised form; in the context of a coordinated operation, where the concept of "dependent society" is defined, due to greater clarity and clarity, it also explicitly specifies both the shareholders and not only the shareholders. It also provides for a new exemption to take account of the purpose of insolvency proceedings, thus allowing the company to continue operating, namely that a person who, as a creditor, has reached a threshold or an additional threshold by obtaining the securities of the target company in insolvency proceedings, is not obliged to make a takeover offer. Therefore, the obligation to make a takeover bid arises at the time of the first further acquisition of the securities of the target company outside the insolvency proceedings. It is also newly stipulated that the takeover bid is not to be made by a bank which has reached the acquisition threshold or an additional take-over threshold by obtaining the securities of the target company on the basis of the redemption of the insurance, but which does not allow the bank to exercise the voting rights of those securities. The bank shall be obliged to make a takeover bid after two years of the acquisition of securities. It also extends the period within which the Securities Market Agency is required to issue a decision from 30 days to 60 days, adding new offences and increasing applications. So much for a moment, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was treated by the Joint Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to the chairman of the committee of mags. Majdi Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The Joint Committee considered the draft law at its 3rd urgent meeting following an urgent procedure, which was decided by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 2nd meeting, on 18 January. Representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Finance, Legal and Legislative Service, Securities Market Agency, Banka Slovenije, Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenian Compensation Society participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Committee has received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which has made some specific comments to the draft law, and the Committee has therefore adopted amendments – all of which are recorded in the report. Only the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats tabled amendments to the draft law within the time limit. The Committee was also informed of the views of the Securities Market Agency and the citizen of Borut Strisar. In the debate, members of the Committee and representatives of the invited institutions supported the text of the bill. Differences, however, were about the proposed amendments of the Social Democrats, after which a 2% exceed the threshold would not necessarily constitute a breach of the takeover legislation if it were not for the purpose of taking over the company, which would be assessed by the Securities Market Agency. In the opinion of the Social Democrats, the proposed amendments would in no way violate the rights of small shareholders, but would only be certain solutions in cases of changes in ownership. Similar views as proposed by the amendments were already addressed in the authentic interpretation of Article 75(2) and Article 63 in conjunction with Article 75(2). This has been annulled by the Constitutional Court. Social Democrats have also pointed out in the debate that the country will be in an even more difficult situation than it is now if the amendments are not accepted, because state property will be even easier to sell. It was pointed out in the discussion that some problems in the implementation of the law arose, due to the different interpretations of certain provisions of the law, for example, when a breach of the threshold occurred and whether there was a breach of that threshold on purpose or not or whether there was a breach because the shareholder wanted to take over the company without making a takeover offer. With the proposed amendments, the Social Democrats wanted to resolve these issues and also address the country's voting rights, as the Securities Market Agency has not been sufficiently effective in this area recently. The representative of the Capital Investment Management Agency warned that, in the event of an unaltered situation, the state would lose voting rights in companies where the state has high stakes, such as in the Insurance Office Triglav, Krka, Petrol, Abanka, Savi, Aerodrome and so on. Some estimates suggest that the country would need around €4 billion when it offers to take over. Some members of the Committee also pointed out in the debate that the Ministry of Economy, at the same time as this amendment of the law, which, in their view, is more or less related to banks and is intended to represent only a partial solution, should provide comprehensive legal solutions to the problems that have been unsuccessfully addressed last year with an authentic explanation. After the discussion and further explanations and clarifications of the Magi. Mr Gaspari and Dr Franz Križanič adopted the amendments prepared for the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the amendments of the Group of Social Democrats were not adopted by the Committee. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the completed proposal for a law incorporating the amendments is prepared on the basis of Article 133, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. The amended bill is an integral part of this report and an amendment to Article 8 is also tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, the position will be presented by Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members and representatives of the Government! The New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on takeovers. The first reason to support the amendments and additions to this Act is that securities market regulation is urgently needed. The Securities Market Agency, which exercises control under the Download Act, cannot exercise control for reasons such as the fact that many companies still do not have securities issued in intangible forms and are, as a result, taken over without the bids made and without the control of the ownership of these companies. This has the effect that it is not possible to exercise control over voting rights. The legality and transparency of acquisitions should be ensured, in particular through the mandatory issuance of non-materialised securities and through the obligation to report back to the Securities Market Agency on any changes in the ownership structure of public companies. The second reason for supporting the changes is the elimination of the problems and legal gaps that have been demonstrated in practice so far in the implementation of the Law on takeovers. This enables better and more effective supervision of the Securities Market Agency over the law itself, thus protecting all stakeholders of companies, especially minorities, and their equality of treatment. In the opinion of the New Slovenia Group, the future will need to be considered and, last but not least, a strategy for managing and managing state assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u161	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia will present its position. Alenka Bratusek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, again today. The proposal to amend this takeover law is part of a broader set of legislative changes that would allow for faster and more efficient restructuring of companies that have experienced problems for reasons independent of them. The draft law complements the provisions of the existing law in parts in which it has in practice proved to be a problem in the implementation of the law or that there is a legal void or a variety of interpretations of the law in this area. The basic starting point of the bill is to protect the interests of small shareholders as provided by the proposer. The proposal for a law redefines exceptions that do not require a take-over offer to creditors who, by means of their contributions, allow for the continuation of the business of the target company. This exception takes into account the purpose of insolvency proceedings to enable the company to continue operating. It is also newly stipulated that the takeover bid is not to be made by a bank which has reached the take-over threshold or an additional take-over threshold by obtaining the securities of the target company on the basis of the redemption of the insurance, but the bank in those securities must not exercise the voting rights. The bank shall be obliged to make a takeover bid after two years of the acquisition of securities. These exemptions relate to banks which, due to the non-payment of loans, have acquired shares of individual companies and will have to sell them off sooner or later in order to increase their real assets. Since in certain cases these shares may be too high a share, the existing legislation requires a takeover offer, which further complicates the position of banks. However, when we adopt this law, we still have to ask ourselves where the causes of the consequences that this bill is trying to correct have arisen. So why are Slovenian banks in a situation with large amounts of shares held as a guarantee of outstanding credit obligations in their portfolios? Banks in majority state ownership have become hostages of the political agreement of those who managed to destroy companies such as Istrabenz, Pivovarna Laško, Union in the time of the fat cows with their swallowing, and as a result, with their takeover strategy and the pressure of the then political summit also NLB. In Positive Slovenia, we have already tried, together with colleagues from SD, to introduce supplements into the law in order to further protect the interests of the country and thus citizens, in this situation. Under the current legislation, the country in Triglav will lose 64, in Krk 27, in Petrol 29, in Abank 34, in Sava 32, in Aerodrome almost 70, in Telekom 72 and in Maribor Bank 51 per cent of voting rights, which of course follows the obligation to purchase or sell. If the state decided to purchase, at this point it would need about EUR 4 billion, I think it is clear to us all that Slovenia does not have this money at this time. That is why in Positive Slovenia, together with the Social Democrats, we have also proposed the adoption of an amendment this time. If we do not accept the amendment, in times of financial and economic crisis we will be extremely cheap to sell what we have been creating for generations. In particular, colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party would point out that during the election campaign they had promised that there would be no sale of state property without the adoption of the proposed amendment. The responsibility ahead of us is great, we are aware of the situation in which we are facing irresponsible moves in the past, but at the same time we must be careful not to waste our future for the cost of past mistakes. On the forecast of the upcoming coalition on a balanced budget in Positive Slovenia, we hope that this settlement will not go at the expense of a cheap sale of state property. In Positive Slovenia, we will support the bill and appeal to all Members and Members to protect the interests of the state and citizens in the above mentioned companies and to support the amendment to Article 8. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u164	President, thank you for your word, colleagues, colleagues. The representatives of the SDS Group will, of course, confirm the proposed law, adopt it. We estimate that this law solves certain specific situations that could not be adopted under the 2006 takeover legislation and, in particular, reflects the current economic crisis. The existing law, of course, saves banks that will confiscate shares, which they did not anticipate in advance when these shares were set up and thus absolutely has to give some time-limit to what they will do with these shares. The explanation why the Slovenian Democratic Party did not support the amendments. We estimate that it is irresponsible that such a huge problem of billions is solved through amendments. We also miss that the Government has not proposed this solution, given that the authentic interpretation proposed by the National Assembly was rejected by the Constitutional Court. In particular, the fact that these amendments were also strongly opposed by the Market Regulator of the Securities Market Agency. However, we are aware of the situation that this problem must be resolved, but together with all stakeholders, not with amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, let me not forget: unlike amendments, unfortunately, they are not allowed to correct laws and problems that we see in some way in laws. We will, of course, support this takeover law, which will in some ways enable and supplement the existing law, which has been very unclear in some of its articles and doctrines. However, we believe that the existing law without our amendment does not solve the crucial problem that will occur in the summer months of the Assembly when such a law will result in the loss of voting rights. The key question we need to ask ourselves is when a shareholder violates the threshold of ownership of shares; the question of when a breach of this threshold occurred on purpose or not on purpose; and whether there was a breach of the threshold on the basis that the shareholder wanted to take over the company without making a takeover offer. Social Democrats, we condemn such an act when a shareholder refuses to make a takeover offer. That is why we want to resolve these matters with our amendment. I must mention that I regret that the coalition that came into existence today did not understand and does not want to understand the problem, although it is called a coalition of reason, but I must say that it has lost its mind because in three months' time we will be in great difficulty when Slovenia loses its hard-to-reach assets because the regulator will in some way deprive you of voting rights due to some of the facts that I have previously numbered. That is why in the Group of Social Democrats and, of course, in the Positive Slovenia, we have tabled an amendment to Article 8 and in some way we would have saved the country as owner in order not to lose all voting rights in the Insurance Company Triglav, Krka, Petrol, Abank, NKBM, Aerodrome, Telekom, Sava Insurance, etc. Some people at the session themselves said we were lawyers for these companies. We are also lawyers for these companies because we want to keep state property in Slovenia. However, if some want to legally raise property for those shareholders who have substantially smaller shares than the state, some say they should do so by a few percent. Social Democrats will not be involved in this. If we want to retain the voting rights of our friends from the SDS, then the country would need 4 billion and 700 million euros at the moment, which I do not think the country can afford in these difficult times. I therefore propose that we really accept this amendment to Article 8 and in some way solve this problem. Otherwise, we will be able to resolve only in such a way that the state will sell that percentage, which is over 25%. And you know what today's prices are and how we're going to get this money. Even if the amendment is not adopted, we will adopt the law, but we point out that the coalition is unwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hočevar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. Hello, government representatives and present Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, we support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on takeovers, as we assess that arrangements are in place to enable the Agency for the Market in Securities to exercise more effective control. Furthermore, the amendments and additions to the takeover law regulate exceptions and certain market situations that reflect the current economic crisis and thus lead to a normative follow-up to the market situation. At the same time, the solutions contained in amendments to the law will make it easier for banks and companies to operate in insolvency proceedings. Since we are in favour of a simpler country in all areas and the de-de-barcation of procedures, the Members of the Civil Code will support the law. The amendment to Article 8, which was tabled by the parliamentary groups of Social Democrats and Positive Slovenia, will not be supported in the National Paper, as we, like the Securities Market Agency, believe that the amendment contains solutions that try to resolve specific procedures before the Securities Market Agency, which is unacceptable, since the principle of equal treatment of all shareholders is one of the fundamental principles of takeover legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Simčič will present the opinion of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u170	Nice to meet you again. Respectable members of the government, respected members of the government! Position of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Takeover Act. Given that the main purpose of the proposed law is to take over the regulatory area along with amendments to the insolvency law adapting to the real situation in the economy, the Democratic Party of Pensioners' Group supports the law. The main purpose of the takeover amendment is to adapt the current situation in the securities market and to ensure the normal course of business restructuring procedures, which are already and will obviously be present in our area in the coming years. Thus, the novelty provides for an exception when it is not necessary to make a takeover offer to creditors who, in order to carry out a financial restructuring of a company in insolvency proceedings with the conversion of claims to equity shares, would exceed the acquisition threshold of such a company. This enables the company to continue operating. Another important exception to the mandatory publication of the takeover offer is the law for banks that, in other words, come unwittingly to the company’s securities on the basis of the repurchase of the insurance or the seizure of the shares held. This is because banks want only to pay their claims and are not the purpose of managing a company. Of course, both exemptions are not intended, since the creditor must make a takeover bid upon the first further acquisition of the securities of this company outside the insolvency proceedings. [[...]] However, the Bank has to make a takeover bid within two years of taking over, of course if it has not withdrawn these acquisition securities at that time. In addition to these key additions, which we welcome in our Group, the law is being improved so that its implementation can be smooth and remedying the legal voids and dilemmas caused by different interpretations. A greater efficiency of the Securities Market Agency and an improvement of the position of small shareholders are also expected. The new law still does not solve the problems of this and other legislation relating to state ownership in companies. Rooting and early action or changes are also needed in this area. The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will support the amendment under consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! There has been a lot of talk about the takeover legislation in recent years, and we all know the current dilemma regarding the potential withdrawal of the country's voting rights as owner in cases where it has deliberately or unintentionally exceeded the legal threshold. The new law before us is prepared in cooperation with the Securities Market Agency and complements the provisions of the existing law in parts in which, in practice, there has been difficulties in implementing the law. In some areas, there were no doubt legal gaps or different interpretations of the existing law. The basic basis of the proposed amended legislation is thus becoming the protection of the interests of small shareholders. In the Slovenian People's Party, we also strongly support the solution that it is not incumbent on the takeover to give a bank that has taken over the acquisition of the securities of the target company on the basis of the redemption of the insurance. This is especially important in today’s time when a number of executions or stock acquisitions are taking place. Although banks in these securities may not exercise voting rights at the time when such an exception applies, they shall have a period of two years before the obligation to make a takeover offer arises. In the opinion of the People's Party, this is a long enough period for a firm to be thoroughly reorganised. In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party, this law establishes a new legal framework which does not allow exceptions and which defines the obligations and duties of owners more clearly. It is true, however, that the solution that has been adopted in a very unfavourable situation puts the country in a position of ownership. Indeed, in a number of companies this year, the state may lose voting rights and, as a result, will have the decisive power of decision-making by owners with much smaller shares than the current state has. The basic dilemma remains, therefore, whether the state should make a take-over offer everywhere or sell all the surplus stocks above the take-off threshold. In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party, none of these extremes, both because of the critical state of public finances and because of the extremely unfavourable situation in the stock markets, are feasible and we are therefore looking for a transitional solution. Colleagues from the Social Democrats' Group have tried to resolve this dilemma with amendments to define individual exceptions and to legalise the situation of some of the offences by the State back-to-back. We are not convinced in the Slovenian People's Party that this is indeed a solution, because it was also strongly opposed by the Chief Supervisor, the Securities Market Agency. The amendments dealt with concrete cases and were practically discriminatory to other companies, which also raises the questionable constitutional sustainability of these proposals. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are also convinced that it is pointless in the area of takeover legislation to adopt solutions that are rejected by the Chief Supervisor and regulator, in which case the Securities Market Agency. For the reasons I have just stated, Members of the People's Party will not support the amendment tabled by the parliamentary group of Social Democrats and Positive Slovenia. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will therefore support the basic proposal of the Law on takeovers, but we hope that soon after the formation of the new government, representatives of the competent ministry, the parastating funds, the Capital Investment Management Agency and the Securities Markets Agency will be able to sit at the joint table and try to find a solution that would suit all stakeholders, because within a few months the situation of the management of state ownership shares in companies can become very complicated. For the time being, this law will be supported in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u173	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Given that the amendment to Article 8 has been tabled, we are moving on to a debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats and the Group of Positive Slovenia. Anybody want to discuss the amendment? Mag. Alenka Bratushek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. In order to be heard more than once, I will repeat the percentages that we will have to sell: Triglav 64%, Krka 27%, Petrol 29%, Abanka 34%, Sava 32%, Aerodrome almost 70% and Telekom almost 72%. We can talk today whether the solution proposed is the right one or not, but at this point the only solution is possible. Mr Žerjev, as we can read the most likely candidate for Minister of Economy, will be in this area for the first time, I think, for the first time, a very severe headache. He was the one who, at all the pre-election hearings, explained that the winning horses were not sold. If we do not accept this amendment today, we will have only two options — theoretically: one is the purchase or purchase of additional shares or sales. Why did I say it theoretically? Because I think it's crystal clear to all of us in this room that we don't have four or more billion today to get something. So there's only one option left. On the basis of the legislation currently in force, the regulator argued or objected to this. If or when the law is passed, it will also apply to him and he will have to follow it. If we were accused of being lawyers for these companies the last time, I would say that we are not lawyers for these companies and that we are – and that is why we are here – lawyers of all citizens and citizens. What will have to be sold is not ours and not yours, but is of all of us; of all citizens and citizens and for many years, we have worked together for decades. Now we will have to – and this will be your argument that you will be able to sell cheap because someone will force you into it – sell state gold, silver, or horses that win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Since I've noticed he wants to discuss you more, I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I myself did not participate in the discussions on this law. I'm not that skilled, but I trust people who get to know their mother. If we are selling state property right now, we know what the situation is; there is no way that someone in our country will buy this property. It's probably going to be picked up by foreigners at a cheap, very cheap price. I'm sure if we follow this amendment, I'll back it up, we won't do anything bad for the country, or the other way around, we'll do good. Well, I'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u178	Dear Members and Members! In fact, I listened to the debate of representatives of today's coalition on how they objected to the adoption of an amendment protecting state property on the Joint Committee with amazement. You did this on that committee, and therefore I was extremely surprised: for the first time I was on one of those committees as a Member, which I am also Parliament for the first time. The fact that the securities market regulator objected – no one says that the asset protection agency, the State Property Management Commission, was extremely sharp for such amendments to be adopted, including by a representative or Kad or Soda. All of us have been warned that this is doing us harm — doing harm to our property. When today we accept an amendment that can freeze this time when we do what we have to do – and I believe that it is necessary to change either the threshold of taking over or something else – when that is all we do: you are even opposed to it! That is why I think that this amendment allows the State, the representatives of the State, the representatives of the state property, that is, the property that has been given to us in governance, not in ownership and not in possession; when we do this, it seems to me that it would be good and right and I call you, accept the amendment, show the goodwill that you wish to participate in the protection of our property. When you received your mandate and, of course, you also concluded a coalition, you did not get the opportunity to have an unlimited share of your assets. For the sake of our Slovenian assets, I also ask that this amendment be adopted and, if you wish to terminate the Capital Investment Management Agency, that is probably your legitimate right. I can and I believe you will. Of course, this property will then be decided by the district minister, because someone has to make the decision. The government may, too, at the suggestion of the District Minister. This is said to be something needs to be done by the time this is done; the amendment makes it possible and therefore I propose that this amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Once again very briefly. All together in this hall we have monitored throughout the history of Slovenia the privatisation that has taken place in such a way or other, but probably not the wisest, and today we have what we have. In recent years we have seen so-called takeovers by tycoons, so-called tycoons, who in some ways without money, with the flag of shares bought by companies and exhausted them – and today we are here where we are. Now, we are ahead of this takeover law, which is not ideal, which will not solve all matters, but we Social Democrats believe that with the amendment to Article 8, at least at this point in time, we will somehow save state property, that we will not lose all voting rights in these companies in the assemblies that come in May and June, and that because of, and if you want, the slump of the country, some tycoons, small tycoons, may take over our largest company. With the current amendment to Article 8, we only want to resolve voting rights in these assemblies. We want to keep Krko, Petrol, Abanko, Telekom, Aerodrome, Triglav Insurance Company in our hands for the time being. Of course, if the government wants to and will consider selling all these companies, it will be able to sell, but with significantly better conditions than today. So once again: I think that this amendment needs to be adopted and then probably thought – I hope you will think in the government – about how to solve the matter in some systematic way. The Social Democrats will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I know that good intentions do not always lead to a good goal, but at this point the resolution of voting rights is essential and the proposed amendment or amendment points to this path. I understand that those who advocate the divestment of state property find it difficult to understand that we are trying to stop the amendment's investors from selling their assets cheaply. There have been a number of shares and economic operators in which the country has a stake, but let me say that the state also has a 51% stake in the New Maribor Credit Bank and that it can also be resold and that the country can lose voting rights. This means that the owner of one share can prevent the State from exercising its voting rights. Whether we are in favour of such a solution or not, as I say, is probably also related to the relationship that one has with the State Property Management Agency, because on the Committee, the core of the debate took place at the level of the Securities Market Agency, which, like them, defended their positions and the Capital Investment Management Agency, AUKN – I am already completely under the influence of this shortcut. What I would like to say to Mr Pogačnik: if there is an argument in every law that something is not accepted, the fact that a solution to the amendment is proposed, then I do not know what we are going to do in the National Assembly. Maybe we just light up what the government will send us, and then we'll really turn the National Assembly into a voting apparatus. I don't want to see that happen. I will support the amendment because I also supported the amendments on the committee, which were prepared and duly reasoned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u184	President, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! Once again, I would like to draw attention to the matter that I have already referred to here as the weight of four billion and that even the SD in the existing government, which has proposed this law, and in this proposed law that the Government has given, there is not a single word about the country's voting rights. It was known that this matter was the burden of the State which was burdening the matter, but also among the words spoken by the Government's representatives, they said that they disagreed in this way, with the amendments. Above all, it is important for us not to agree with the ATVP market regulator. As my colleague Han has already said, the existing congregations are coming in May, June. We estimate that this is an urgent problem, but not in this way, but in the way that all stakeholders will be involved, from the agency, the chief regulator to the AUKN, and with some concrete explanations. However, I would strongly oppose the views of Mrs Bratušek, the Ambassador of Positive Slovenia, and also some members of the SD, who mislead Members and also the Slovenian public, that the takeover law has an impact on the sale of Slovenian property. This law has no influence on the sale of Slovenian property, does not take any rights, whether it is resold or not, it does not reduce the price. The only danger here is that voting rights can be forfeited at these assemblies. However, the sale of State property is not affected by the takeover law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I'm guessing he does. I also inform the representative of the Government or the Secretary of State that he may also apply by raising his hand if he so wishes. Report. Please sign up. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u186	Thank you so much for saying that. The government has proposed the adoption of a law because of the specific situation of banks that have seized or now have shares of certain companies and are therefore not to be published or should not be published. The SD party has tabled an amendment that solves one open question or wants to solve one open one, seemingly wants to solve one open question and I fear it will not solve it. In fact, any change in legislation between the nine proceedings against nine companies, where shares were purchased in contravention of the takeover legislation or the takeover offer should not have been issued. Retroactive interference, however, will not solve these nine problems and therefore there is a great deal of deceiving anyone here today to solve the problems of these acute procedures before the Securities Market Agency. There's not gonna be a way out of this. Here it was said by the Kavtičnik Member to trust people who know this matter. Dear Member, then trust the Ministry of Economy and Minister Gaspari, who opposes this solution. This was made very clear on the Joint Committee which dealt with it. Trust the national regulator of the Securities Market Agency, which opposes this and this will also be constitutionally challenged and challenging because it is retroactive, and do not trust some who want to protect in fact the narrow interests of certain companies, even though they are partly state-owned. I think that the proceedings against these companies are legitimate and are based on the takeover law and a solution to the assemblies needs to be found. The assemblies will be held in May, June and this is the task of this government, which is now being formed to solve these problems; but in an effective way to solve the problem. This problem that you are here today through this amendment will only complicate matters further. Why? Because the Securities Market Agency, as it is for an authentic explanation, will also file a constitutional complaint and constitutionally challenge it and challenge it, and you thought you had solved the problem and you did not. Your Honor! I think that the problem is serious, and it is by no means a forfeiture of voting rights. To date, only one of these companies have been deprived of voting rights, namely the Banks, the other Securities Markets Agency has not yet issued sanctions and sanctions will only take effect when the Assembly is in May, June. It is likely that societies will be able to adjust in some way the references of congregations, the visas of these circumstances, and the solutions that we need; but, the solution that is the solution! What you're suggesting is not a solution. However we all want to avoid the unloving consequences, it is also up to us to propose solutions that will work, not those that are political, that blur and dispel the problem from the solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratushek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. By the fact that something is unconstitutional, we could have seen some day ago that you don't have very big problems in the new coalition. And if there is at least a few percent of the chance that our assets, which we have been creating for so long, are kept, at least for the time being, owned by the country, this is also an acceptable option for us. Mr. Pogačnik, and it really doesn't say anywhere in the marriage that we're gonna sell it. But if you read it well and know things, you know what the consequences are. On the Committee on Finance, people from different institutions said what was going to happen. It was clearly and loudly said that there are only two options, and this is that as a country we find 4 or more than 4 billion or subsequent sales. I think we were sitting on the same board and we heard those same words. Once again: if we are lawyers, which we have been accused of on board in some way, we are lawyers of all citizens and citizens, because this is – once again – not yours, not ours, but of all citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Yes, Mr. Matjaz Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u190	Just one sentence, perhaps to clarify what the congregation means. You all know what the congregation means. In this case, and even if we do not sell, it will be done that whoever has 3% will vote in the new Supervisory Board at the Assembly, this Supervisory Board will appoint a new board and the new board will be able to do what it wants and what it wants. If that's what we want in this country, then thank you very much. I don't!
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u191	Thank you very much. I find that he wants to discuss them more, so I'm asking for an application. Mr. Marko Pogačnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u192	Very briefly, we're not going to get along the wrong way. We are aware of this problem. This problem needs to be resolved and will be resolved, but not in the way it is proposed that the matter will again fly to the Constitutional Court, that it will be a regulator against it, but that stakeholders will sit together and find a common solution. Of course, there is a common solution to the resolution of voting rights. Once again, the Takeover Act has nothing to do with the sale of state property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u194	I really wish we weren't deceiving. None of these key companies have yet been deprived of voting rights; nor is it necessary for voting rights to be withdrawn and voting rights to be withdrawn. Of course, that's not necessary. That's what you're speculating about. You're speculating and pointing to something that's never happened before. It is true, however, that these companies have infringed the takeover legislation and are obliged to remedy the matter. In a way, we too have been called upon to solve this problem. But once again: in such a way that we retroactively interfere with the procedures we have begun, it is simply not possible to do so despite the good will. In spite of the good will. You know, that's right, there's a procedure against one, and then you see that the law is too hard on him, and you're going to change the law to make it less hard on him to save him. That's actually what's happening right now. That's not how it works. Simply put. I am not a lawyer, but I understand that such a procedure is barren because you have opponents on the other hand to what is a state; a country both at the Ministry of Economy and at the Securities Market Agency. It's so easy, gentlemen, not working. The problem has to be solved differently, and it's a few months to get rid of it, and we're gonna save it.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u196	Dear Vice President! I don't understand Mr Mark Pogačnik and Mr Andre Visiak, but what's so damn wrong here if we want to protect additional state property in these companies. Look, we're not doing anyone any favors, because we don't want to protect foreign companies. We want to protect the state property, as the colleague said, which is owned by all of us. Now, at the time of the recession, when everything is half-free or even free, it is necessary to have an extra fuse. That's why I'm going to support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would ask that the Government give us a clear view of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Again, I'm asking if anyone else wants a word. The Secretary of State has the floor. Janko Burger.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u200	See, as has already been said on the committee itself, the amendment does not solve the problem arising from the takeover law – 25%. In fact, it cannot solve the retroactive problems that have arisen. This means that each time taking two percent, then five percent, then ten percent, or anything else, does not actually solve the problem. Because of this amendment, we do not support such an amendment. It also does not address the challenges presented today.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm collecting applications. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u202	We're in a very strange and comical situation. Mr Vizjak speaks about the fact that the Minister of Economy and the Ministry of Economy have spoken about the fact that he does not support it. However, it does not say that the Minister of Finance on the same committee has supported that something needs to be done here. At this stage, when we are talking about the government – sorry when we are talking about the government's position, I was sitting on this committee, listening, and this was the position of the Slovenian government on the committee. That is why this moment of amendment certainly saves the situation that we are in, because some feel that they can do things their way. They can't.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u203	Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would ask Mr Visionak to stop making fun of the applications for debate on the topics now ahead of us. Firstly, there are quite a number of women in Parliament, for the first time as many as there are now, so please don't just talk about gentlemen, because there are ladies here. That's the first one. If you're making fun of me for not being an economist – I never claimed to be, but I was on a committee where I heard your dialogue with the Mag. Mr Gaspari, who had a position, as Mr State Secretary has now said. But there was another government representative in this session who supported the amendments. That's all I wanted to say is that you won't have any trouble. But my vote in Parliament counts as much as yours. But we have a conscience to deal with, and not just now, for past decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u205	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I'm collecting applications. Mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u206	Your Honor! True, it was not the first time that the same government spoke or communicated differently through two ministers. It is true that there were two ministers at this meeting of the Joint Committee: the Minister responsible for this issue is Minister Gaspari, who has made it very clear that he opposes this amendment. It is true that Minister Križanič also addressed this issue, as Member Meh said, that the problem must be resolved. I repeat this myself – the amendment is inadequate and the problem needs to be solved. This is quite simple, but this amendment you are proposing does not solve the problem. It intervenes in some proceedings that have already begun in such a way as to be declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, as is that authentic explanation that tried to remedy this problem some six months ago. So, Your Honor, I respect all these concerns and speculations, and not least of all the announcements about the sale of state property, that's the least of our interests. It's in our interest to solve the problem. But what you're suggesting isn't the solution. If you don't trust your government minister, if you don't trust the national regulator, then I really don't know who can help you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u207	Thank you very much. I understand there's still a desire to discuss it. Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u208	It's not a wish. Mr. Vizjak, don't talk about speculation. You used the term "speculation" – my position and our position are not speculation. Our position is to protect Slovenian state property, just as your position is your position and is not speculation. I'm not gonna let that happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss it? Mr. Marko Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u210	Just one more time. We are certainly for a solution. If such an amendment were adopted today, it would be highly likely that the Constitutional Court would reject the case just before the Assembly and the state would indeed be without voting rights, which would cause enormous damage. By rejecting this today, we will be given the opportunity to adopt such an amended law that will be useful for the country and for the protection of state property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u211	Does anyone else want to discuss it? Mr. Matjaz Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u212	Well, now I'm, I must say, calmed down because I heard Mr. Pogačnik. In any case, I will support this amendment. However, as I see that this amendment will not receive sufficient support, I am waiting for the reply of the new government and the new Minister of Economy, what he will do to ensure that in May, June and July, when the assemblies are in place, we do not look into the air when minority stakeholders take over our businesses. So I'm kind of looking forward to the new government's response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u213	I find that no one wants to discuss it anymore, so I am concluding the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, 15 minutes after the end of the 5th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. Agenda item — Proposal for a law on amendments to the energy law, necessary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags. Janku Burgaru, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u214	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and honourable Members! We have before us a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Energy Law, which the Government has proposed following an urgent procedure, because it saves and transposes some of the provisions of the Directives that we are already late to the point that we are already threatened with the expression of daily fines for the non-transfer of the acquis in the coming weeks. All these harmonisations, and many others, were planned by the Government last year in a new energy law with almost 60 members and a total of 10 Directives and 3 Regulations of the European Commission in our legal order. Since the interdepartmental consideration of the proposed law has been delayed due to the scope of the law, we have already proposed a shorter amendment to the Energy Law in October, with provisions where, if I may say so, we have already been burning under our feet. The National Assembly of that time did not want to deal with any law under an emergency procedure any more, so the Government re-transmitted this proposal to the new National Assembly in January. As I have already said, between the 35 articles of the proposed law, there are only provisions which constitute the transposition of individual directives and one harmonisation with the Constitutional Court decision. In particular, provisions on alternative dispute resolution between suppliers and consumers, which are also part of the so-called second energy package from 2003. Further provisions on certification of power supply equipment operators and provisions on a single information point and action plan for renewable energy under the Directive on the promotion of renewable energy sources. Here are the provisions on potential waters for the transport of carbon dioxide set out in the Directive on the capture and storage of carbon dioxide, the provisions laying down requirements for eco-design of products contained in the "eco-design" Directive, the provisions on information to the final consumer concerning energy consumption in products covered by the Energy Labelling Directive. The legal basis for calculating the average prevention costs for new connections to the electricity network has also been changed since the legal basis of the 31st period has been amended. 12. As a result of the provisions of the Constitutional Court, 2011 has ceased to apply. In the law, this problem is solved by provisions on the connecting power network. In addition, the Republic of Slovenia has an obligation under the so-called 2009 Gas Directive to carry out the ownership separation of transmission network operators from production and supply, which the State must ensure with effect from 3 March 2012. For operators who were 3. 9. 2009 part of a vertically integrated company is allowed under the Directive to decide and allow the creation of an independent operator, which is still vertically connected but under special conditions and with specific requirements. If the State does not legally regulate this possibility for the creation of an independent operator by 3 March 2012, the mandatory form of ownership shall be a completely separate system operator. These provisions of the law will therefore allow Geoplin d.o.o. to remain 100 % of the owner of the gas pipeline company, which owns the entire Slovenian transmission pipeline system. As it is said, this decision must be notified to the European Commission by 3 March this year, or we will lose this opportunity forever. That is also why we have proposed a bill following an urgent procedure. The more extensive proposal for a law with close to 600 articles, where non-implementation is already in a hurry, is also ready at the Ministry and we will present it to the new government, because it does not belong in the current business. I thank the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly for their extremely good proposals for improvements to the legal text, because everything has been adopted in the form of an amendment to the home committee. I also thank the Members and Members for their constructive debate on the Committee, which ultimately resulted in unanimous support for the bill on the Committee. I ask that you support the bill and, at the same meeting, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, also proceed to the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was treated by the Joint Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to the chairman of the committee of mags. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u216	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members of the Government! The Joint Committee considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Energy Act at its 3rd emergency meeting on 25 January as a working body. This was done by means of an urgent procedure, which was decided by the College of the President of the National Assembly on 18 January. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Civil Initiatives of DPSND, the Slovenian Energy Chambers and the Legal and Legislative Services attended the meetings of the Committee. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. This bill was examined in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and made comments to Article 23. Most of the comments made by the service were taken into account in the proposals for amendments to the Committee. These were prepared by the Ministry of Economy. The proposed law was not submitted by qualified applicants within a time-limit and the Committee was also provided with material, namely the proposal for amendments to the Committee of the Social Democrats' Group's 2nd Article, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance and the Interested Group of Employers. This group did not support the law. At the meeting, a further working paper was presented to the Committee, containing 22 amendments to the article and two for the new articles. Comments to the proposal for a law on amendments and additions were also transmitted by Ecoenergetics, d.o.o. and the comments mentioned were contained in the Committee's amendments proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. The applicant’s introductory supplementary explanation is mag. Mitja Gaspari, in his capacity as Minister of Economy, explained the reasons for the proposed changes to the current law. Amendments are needed in order to adapt Slovenian legislation to the European legal order, since the Republic of Slovenia is late in this area, which could mean fines or fines in monetary form. In addition, the proposed amendments address the question of reorganisation of the energy system and introduce the possibility of obtaining funding for energy projects on the private capital market on the basis of the real estate flag. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained several sides of the long-term opinion. I would point out that the comments were considerable, but a good part of the comments was of a nomotechnic nature and therefore these amendments were also adopted unanimously. It drew attention to a modest interpretation in the cities or to the requests of the Constitutional Court or to comments on the applicable energy law. In the debate on individual articles, the debaters focused on proposals for amendments to Article 2, which is an article of a more terminological nature. There was also a lot of debate on Article 10. A proposal for an amendment to the Committee of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group proposed the deletion of the article was tabled under this Article. However, on the Committee this proposal was then withdrawn and replaced by a proposal for a text, which you now also have written in the amended proposal of the law. There has also been a lot of debate with regard to Article 29. This is due in particular to the fact that two amendments have been tabled to this Article, one on the proposal of the Legislative and Legal Service, since this was linked to the period of application in the transitional provisions already in progress and therefore the deletion of the article has been proposed. However, while the SDS Group, as a proposal by the amendment, offered to extend its validity until 2017. This proposal was later withdrawn because the deletion was adopted and therefore the amendment proposal became irrelevant. All the amendments adopted are part of the amended law. I propose that the National Assembly judge this law and avoid sanctions by adopting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jože Velenja will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u218	Honourable Presidents, distinguished representatives of the proposer, MEPs and Members. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Energy Law will be supported by the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. We believe that a change of law is now necessary and useful for energy. Such a system law will address violations of the European directives in the field of the functioning of the energy system, to which the Republic of Slovenia has been warned several times since 2009. Amendments and additions to the law require adequate supervision of the independent transmission system operator and eliminate the possibility of conflict of interest. They also include provisions on alternative dispute resolution between suppliers and consumers, provisions on certification of installations for the use of renewable energy sources, provisions on a single information point and action plan for renewable energy sources, provisions on potential waters for the transport of carbon dioxide, provisions on the establishment of ecodesign requirements for products, provisions on the information of the end-user in relation to the use of energy in products, provisions on the form of organisation of the system operator of the transmission gas network and others. In addition to the implementation of the European directives, the proposed amendment of the law provides a legal basis for the continuation of the acquisition of the distribution network operator's assets, a network of connecting power needed to ensure the basic technical conditions of the network's existence and the monitoring of development and investment trends. In the electricity system, a proposal for amendments and the completion of the Energy Act also opens up the possibility of flaging production facilities in the energy system when it comes to borrowing. Notwithstanding the shared views of some on such a solution to the release of high-quality investment potential, thereby decommissioning the country, the State guarantees represent a potential public debt. Therefore, we believe that the proposed solutions are also meaningful because of the limitations on the overall extent of the sector's guarantees to non-sector units by the countries envisaged by the novels of the Finance Act. In doing so, it should also be noted that we should not be disturbed by the fact that such an incentive mechanism is just an opportunity and not an urgency. We agree, however, that it is necessary to obtain the consent of the government or of the local community in such indebted bodies, which are owned by a majority of the state. However, this incentive mechanism will be able to come to life if the relevant authorities issue concessions, which are a prerequisite for the start-up of investments. So, as has already been said, the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will support the proposed amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u220	Honourable President, Honourable Secretary of State. Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the amendment of the Energy Act, although of course we expected in this mandate, an expired mandate, even a novelty or a whole new energy law on the basis of a national energy plan. I was happy myself and thank the former Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Pahor, for appointing me to his Strategic Energy Council. At the first meeting, the Strategic Council agreed that a national energy programme should be drawn up so that all the country's strategic energy policies in the field of energy must be based on this national energy programme. A logical consequence, or a parallel marriage, is also an energy law. I'm afraid none of this has happened. We have received a national energy programme in a draft that defines a number of scenarios. Today, none of the energy in this country understands how to follow this, of course, unacceptable, energy plan or those scenarios that are there. This amendment of the law regulates those urgent things that are the result of the adoption of European directives. In short, the takeover of that package of liberalisation of the electricity market that was adopted there in 2008 and which results in sanctions if not adopted. Some of these changes also apply to our internal affairs, to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, but few are essential. One has also been tried by this law, which is that without the government's consent, energy production of infrastructure could be pursued. So we would borrow credit from companies with the flag of those vital parts of Slovenian energy. This has been prevented by amendments to the Joint Committee. Thus, it is also necessary to obtain the government's consent for any collateralisation of production facilities, if they are state-owned, as has been the case so far, that this is not necessary when it comes to private production facilities, which is logical. I think it is good that there is a possibility that if it is in accordance with the concept of the state and government to close the financial structure with the flag of certain production resources, this is now possible. I think that's a good thing, but with pre-conditions and fuses, which are also embedded in this novelty of the law. Therefore, at the end of this three-year energy story, I can conclude that we have not taken one step forward in these three years in the field of energy, and therefore the future government is waiting for a lot of new tasks and a lot of responsible work. Unfortunately, some investments in energy infrastructure have also been made, not thanks to the Ministry of the Economy, but thanks to the Ministry of the Environment, that some investments have stalled. Especially the construction of hydropower plants at the bottom of the Sava, that we have unreasonable delays in doing so, and this should not happen again in the future. That is why this important challenge, the new energy law and also the new national energy programme, which will be clear, short and which will give everyone working in the field of energy a uniform direction, how to proceed. As I mentioned earlier, this novel speaks only of those urgent things. We do not see any problems, unless we succeed with the amendments that have been rejected on the Committee, so that we will adopt the text as proposed today, including in this plenary hearing.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Meh will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u222	Dear Members and Members! We will also adopt changes to the Energy Law by the Social Democrats, because we think that at this moment they are solving the complications we are in, and we have a really big job ahead of us. In doing so, I would also like to say what has probably already been said, but perhaps it is still worth stressing that, in addition to European legislation, the system operator of the transmission network had to be separated from production and that the possibility of creating an independent operator was also possible under a vertical link under special conditions. Well, that's possible now. When we spoke on the committee about this, we talked about Geoplin and that this is now possible. Today there was quite a bit of talk about the need to adopt an energy law. The forecast of the energy law is that it will have 600 articles, so more than 500 of which are close to 600 articles. It's an extremely extensive law. It's extremely demanding. I am pleased with Mr Visionak's announcement that this will be done quickly and that we will do so very precisely and quickly, but I am aware that this is of exceptional importance and that much work will be required, much cooperation and also a lot of listening when someone wants to say something different. I would also like to define the network on which we spoke today and with which we provide a system source, this is what we call operators, system operators. Some think or think that if the source of the network is only the source of the system operator, that we have made a mistake. But it's better than not doing anything. It would therefore be wise to consider later that the part of getting the report back is also the operator or distribution companies that have invested and are investing and who are working in this area, let's say what we also need. From this point of view, it seems extremely important to me that when we talk about the Energy Law – that is, the new energy law and not the changes in the Energy Law – we are trying to solve everything that we have talked about today and that we have not actually talked about. Now, if I'm allowed, what's probably not fair, I'll tell you anyway. If no step has been taken so far on energy, then on behalf of Energy, where I worked, I must say that Energy is now providing Slovenian consumers with electricity that is affordable, quality, quantity as much as we need. So, if nothing else, then it's a system that's doing what it needs to do right now. However, I wish that we would not take any steps back in the future and that we would retain what we have today – a quality offer, a good offer – and that we would work for the benefit of Slovenian citizens and citizens, of course, when we are talking about electricity supply. Now, too, on these urgent procedures, on what we are also dealing with in Parliament today, in order to prevent damage. So today, with these amendments to the law, which we also support, we are solving what we could have resolved a long time ago, because some of the directives were not adopted in 2008 and were not adopted in 2009, not in 2010 and not in 2011. Some directives have been adopted many times before, but we have done nothing in this area. Public treatment or consideration of the Energy Law is extremely important for us, so I think it is Mr Visiank's call — but I also think that coalitions — that when we break the energy law, we will find the best experts who will also be able to write such a law politically that we will all support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u223	Parliamentary Group of the National List, Mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u224	Thank you for saying that again. Good evening, everyone! I will briefly state why the National Gazette of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Law will support it. We estimate that changes are necessary and necessary in order to adapt Slovenian legislation to the European legal order, as the Republic of Slovenia, as we have heard many times today, catches the last train in this area so that we do not face a monetary sanction that could also amount to thousands of euros a day. In the Civil Gazette, we also welcome the agreement reached on the home labour body, under which the amendment of the Energy Law preserved the government's obligation under prior agreement in the event of a flag for the production of state-owned energy infrastructure. For these reasons, the members of the National Gazette will support the amendment of the Energy Law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u225	Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Simčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u226	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Act. The proposal, which, according to the proposer, was prepared by the Government, is due to the delay in the transposition of the European directives into the Slovenian legal order, which could result in monetary sanctions of between €650 and €36,000 a day. One of the most receptive solutions provided by the proposed law is the possibility of selling, disposing or flaging property of energy companies in order to obtain financial resources on the private financial market. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we had doubts as to who would control the objects being set up, especially those which are state-owned, since the end of the works is worth some 100 million euros. We are therefore pleased that we have adopted an amendment on the home labour body, allowing for the sale, disposal or establishment of properties only by those energy companies that have private owners. Otherwise, the proposal brings solutions that we, as members of the European Union, are obliged to implement into our legislation. The proposal thus lays down provisions on the organisation of energy where distribution is separated from market share, which the State must provide on 3 March this year. The proposed novelty also includes provisions on alternative dispute resolution between the supplier and the consumer provided for by the second energy package and provisions on certification of installers for the use of renewable energy sources. There is also a single information point and an action plan for renewable energy sources, as set out in the Directive on the promotion of renewable energy sources. In the text of the amendment of the law, a legal basis for charging the network shall be laid down on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court. Without this, distributors will no longer be able to charge the distribution network from this year's first January network, so we need to eliminate this unconstitutionality with the proposed amendment. As has already been said, Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u227	Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u228	Good evening, Madam Vice President, colleagues, colleagues! Today we are adopting the new Energy Law by emergency procedure. Why? Simply because we are threatened with such high financial penalties by the European Union for failing to fulfil our commitments in implementing European directives, as well as the need to address the lack of a legal basis for charging the average costs of connection or the newly named power grid. For almost a week, a month, so since the beginning of this year we have no legal basis for network collection. This means a high loss of revenue from the state system operator and the electricity distribution companies and a complete halt to the implementation of new connections for any new user. Of course, it is never good that such matters must be resolved on the nose, but given that the political situation in the country has been specific in recent months, it is somehow understandable. For this reason, it is difficult for us in the Slovenian People's Party to understand why the proposaler of the marriage novel has taken advantage of the opportunity to write in the law a number of other amendments and additions that are part of a brand new energy law, which must be rounded up as a whole and in line with the country's energy strategy. Because some of the additions and changes in the novelty have completely needlessly stirred up some of the professional public and stimulated the critical comments of some industry companies. As in the new law, an article was also stolen, under which, without the consent of the State, it would be possible to sell, remove or burden, i.e. the flag of electricity or natural gas plants, including in cases where the State is directly or indirectly owned. Of course, this proposed postponement can be a matter of broader discussion, and it is not a matter for this amendment to the law. Fortunately, through the amendment of the parent working body, we have arranged and eliminated the required consensus exclusively in the production of private-owned energy infrastructure. Today it is our job in particular to prevent the financial damage to the state, the system operator of the network and the electricity distribution companies and to fulfil the commitments we have made in this area in Europe. All other urgent changes will need to be designed within a comprehensive solution in the near future. The government has failed in the previous mandate to draft a new energy law, although it is still evident today that it is urgently needed. It also failed to develop a comprehensive national energy strategy or draw up a national energy programme by 2030 at least. This development of clear energy policy guidelines is certainly a priority for the future mandate of the new Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We are faced with very difficult decisions about some investments, both those under way, those who are also in preparation and are trapped in the mazes of difficult spatial placement procedures. And, of course, there is also a difficult decision before us as to what kind of society we want to live in for decades to come. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will also support the present law in this form.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u229	New Slovenia delegation group, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u230	Thank you for your word. The New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Energy Act. The area of energy is of strategic importance for Slovenia and it is therefore important that we regulate this area as soon as possible while adapting it to the Slovenian legislation of the European Union directives. In the past, the European Union has already issued a number of reminders for failure to meet its obligations in the field of legal order adjustment. By adopting this law, we will prevent Slovenia from paying high penalties to the European Union. In addition to some other acquisitions made by this law, it is also important to highlight consumer protection in the electricity market. Some experts warned the media that the adoption of this law allows for some quiet sale of the best parts of Slovenian energy infrastructure. In New Slovenia, we have taken this problem very seriously, and we have also adopted amendments that severely restrict such acts to the adoption of the law. For all these reasons, we will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u231	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, 15 minutes after the adjournment of the 5th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. POINT OF THE DAY’S ORDINATION OF THE DRAFT DECISION ON THE ESTABLISHMENT AND OBJECTIVES OF THE WORKING BODIES OF THE STATE CONGREGATION. The draft decree was tabled by the College of the President of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Mr Jože Tanko, has the floor. [[No, no, no. He's cancelling the debate.]] Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u232	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The Group of Social Democrats will do something that is usually not the custom when it comes to the decision on the establishment and tasks of working bodies, or usually this decree is supported and our Group of Members will not support this decision. Let me explain why this is a decision. The proposal for a regulation establishing working bodies follows another document, namely the adoption of the Government Act, which regulates the functioning of ministries in a special way. In that law, the Social Democrats said that we do not specifically agree with the provisions of the law. The first was the inclusion of the area or area of operation of the Ministry of Culture in the wider ministry. Here is another point to be made, namely the inclusion of the Prosecutor's Office in the Ministry of the Interior. This is also followed by the proposed decision and the identification of the work areas of individual committees. Perhaps, I say again, this decision is unusual, but in this way we want to say that we do not agree with these provisions, which also appear to be professionally unacceptable to many. What is in the House of State's domain to be able to handle it is right to regulate it now that we decide on it. As it is said, we will not support this decision, but we are aware that this will not affect the fact that the decision would not be adopted because the newly elected coalition has a large majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u233	Parliamentary Group National List, Mr Richard Braniselj. [[He's cancelling the debate.]] Then the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u234	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! At six points, I'll explain that we're going to back us up. This is because the working bodies of the National Assembly must be established. Secondly, although we do not yet have a government at this time, we have today confirmed the mandate holder in a secret vote. Thirdly, we confirmed Thursday's amendment to the Government Act. Fourthly, this creates the conditions for us to adopt a decree providing for the establishment of the working bodies of the National Assembly. The groups of Members have agreed on the representation of the individual parliamentary group in the working bodies. The election result, as well as the composition of the coalition, is also taken into account. As I said at the outset, we will unanimously support the proposal in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u235	Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u236	The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will support this decree and I see no reason, all the conditions are met, we have elected a mandate holder, the government is ahead of us and the work in Parliament must run. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u237	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion, so I am concluding the debate. No amendments were tabled to the motion for a decree. The decision on the motion for a decision will be made in 15 minutes in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also interrupt the 5th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by voting in 15 minutes, at 20.50. [[advertising from the hall]] I don't think all the Members are here, and they probably still have to come. Let's compromise. Let's make it 10 minutes. We'll resume in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2012-01-28-SDZ6-Izredna-05.ana.u238	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bonds, the urgent procedure. No amendments have been tabled. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're moving to the vote. We vote, the vote is on. 82 Members and Members attended, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on takeovers, the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 28 January 2012 by Article 8. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia to Article 8. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 47. (There were 34 votes in favour.)(against 47.) I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 79 votes against 2. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Law, an urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill, which is to decide on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 81 votes against 1. [[The vote was 81.]] [[Against one.]] I understand the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Establishment and Tasks of the Labour Bodies of the National Assembly. Since no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decree establishing and the tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 76 votes in favour, 6 votes in favour. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to six. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to a motion for appointment to the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia with a motion for a decision : A motion for appointment to the Supreme Court of Justice in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia has been submitted to the Court of Justice. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which gave written reports to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Vladimir Horvat to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. 79 Members were present, 76 were voted against. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for an election to a judicial function in the District Court of Justice at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana, with proposals for conclusions. The proposal for election to the judicial office of the District Court and the District Judge at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana was submitted by the Council of the State. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly and submitted proposals for conclusions. There are no applications for discussion. We're moving on to decision-making. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision to elect Alenka Čebašek Jesenovac as judge of the District Court of Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 80 Members present, 76 votes against. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I shall put to the vote the motion for a decision by which, in a judicial function, Samo Vidmar is elected as District Court Judge at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana We're voting. There are 81 Members present, 78 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision appointing members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 81 members present, 80 votes against. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of the member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Jerne Dirnbek. We're voting. There are 81 Members present, 81 votes against. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the conclusion of the termination of the mandate of the members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council – appointed pursuant to the sixth indent of Article 17, paragraph 6, of the RTV Slovenia Act. The President of the RTV Programme Council of Slovenia, Dr Jernej Pikalo, submitted a proposal to the National Assembly and to the Mandate-Electorial Commission, in accordance with Article 17, paragraph 3, and Article 18, paragraph 3, of the RTV Act of Slovenia, to carry out appropriate procedures with regard to the termination of the term of office of a member of Matvež Kaserman. The proposal for a decision was presented to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion. The mandate-holder commission presented the following decision to the National Assembly: It is found that, in view of the incompatibilities of the performance of the function as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, the mandate of a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council appointed under the sixth indent of Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act is terminated. The term of office shall expire on the date of the meeting of the National Assembly. I'm guessing the National Assembly has made a decision. We are moving on to the hearing of the District Court notice in Ljubljana, Criminal Section, on criminal proceedings against the MP of mag. Radovan Žerjava The announcement was forwarded to the National Assembly by the District Court in Ljubljana, Kazen Department. The notice was considered by the Mandate-voluntary Commission as the working body of the State to report in writing to the Assembly and to submit a proposal for a decision. We're moving on to decision-making. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members, concerning the notification of the District Court in Ljubljana, Section of Penalty, op. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. II K-11674/2010 of 12. 1. 2012 on criminal proceedings against a Member of the National Assembly of Mags. Radovan Žerja because of the suspicion of the service of six offences of slander under Article 170, paragraph 1, second and third, of the Penal Code, does not recognize the immunity of a member of the National Assembly of Magi. Joyful Žerjav and allow the conduct of criminal proceedings. On the basis of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on a proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 76 votes against 3. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the hearing of the Information from the Supreme Court in Ljubljana on criminal proceedings against Ambassador Karl Viktor Erjavac. The notice was forwarded to the Supreme Court in Ljubljana for consideration by the National Assembly. The notice was considered by the Mandate-voluntary Commission as the working body of the State to report in writing to the Assembly and to submit a proposal for a decision. We're moving on to decision-making. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: the National Assembly, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 83 of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana, supported by: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. II Kp-78351/2010 of 18. 1. 2012 on the criminal procedure against Member of the National Assembly, Karl Viktor Erjavac, for the suspicion of the offence of the offence of the bride in service under Article 262 of the Penal Code, does not recognise the immunity of the member of the National Assembly, Karl Viktor Erjavac, and allows the conduct of the criminal procedure. On the basis of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on a proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 76 votes against 3. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the hearing of the Information from the Supreme Court in Ljubljana on criminal proceedings against Ambassador Gregor Virant. Notice Please be quiet. [[...]] The notice was forwarded to the Supreme Court in Ljubljana for consideration by the National Assembly. The notice was considered by the Mandate-voluntary Commission as the working body of the State to report in writing to the Assembly and to submit a proposal for a decision. We're moving on to decision-making. Quiet, please. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: the National Assembly, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 83 of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. II Kp 42712/2010 of 19. 1. 2012 on criminal proceedings against a Member of the National Assembly, Dr. Gregor Virant, for the suspicion of a criminal offence under Article 158, paragraph 1, of the Penal Code [[KZ1]] does not recognise the immunity of a member of the National Assembly, Dr. Gregor Virant, and allow the conduct of criminal proceedings. On the basis of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on a proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 75 votes against 4. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. In accordance with the fifth indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the College of the President of the National Assembly adopted, at its 3rd meeting, on 27 January 2012, a decision setting out the number of seats of members of the working groups in the working bodies of the National Assembly and determining the seats of the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. In accordance with the decision adopted, the parliamentary groups made proposals for the presidents and vice-presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. In the light of the proposals received, a proposal for a decision has been prepared which you have received on the bench. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, Mr Jože Tanko, has the floor. He's giving up the word. But there are no others. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. There are no debaters, so I am concluding the debate. We move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 83 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the draft decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. The proposal was tabled by the parliamentary groups for consideration by the National Assembly. In the absence of the panellists, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services. In doing so, I inform you that, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services, a decision will be taken if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I conclude this agenda item and I also conclude the 5th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and wish you a nice Sunday.
